ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Remember that the vote of the Hiller is located in Urruzuno, and that of Borja Sémper, Laura Garridogan. First point in theme list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: "Mutation, introduced by Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members, the Euskal Command of the competition against the screen of the schools. "Motion, introduced by the author of the civil law of the Oyraral de Euskal Group, the fraud of the public contraction of the schools. "Motion, the translator, introduced by the lawmates of the Ezarbaster, the new state created by the school-room catersing-pres." The group's turn to make a suggestion. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u1	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. I am bringing to the debate (we are bringing to the debate, because it has been a number of groups that have decided to table motions on the issue) fraud in the public procurement of school canteens. The Basque Competition Authority has recently issued a tough resolution stating that seven catering companies have been acting for years as a cartel, sharing lots and fixing up the prices of the contests for the supply of the menus of the school canteens of the public network of the Basque Government. The scandal affects the largest contract of the Department of Education of the Basque Government. The fine imposed on companies affected by the Basque Competition Authority, the largest in history: 18 million euros, which is an amount that in any case would be far from the profits that these companies would have obtained during the years indicated by the Basque Competition Authority, more than 200 million euros of public money. The procurement system was that the companies that wanted to attend first had to be approved to see if they met a number of requirements of economic-financial solvency and suitability of the facilities for the possibility of serving with guarantees those thousands of daily menus that were asked of them. To do this type-approval a contest was called that curiously always won the same company. The laboratory did not have the category of approval body. The Government then convened the competition divided into a series of lots. From there, price concertation and lot distribution by the same companies. And so for years, without any government moving a finger to prevent these fraudulent practices. The Basque Competition Authority complains that the practices it points out would have been carried out for at least a decade, and that it cannot guarantee that such anti-competitive practices would not begin earlier. Given that the reported recruitment system was established by the Basque Government years ago, it is reasonable to believe that irregularities, favours and the breakdown of thousands of families have occurred since then. In response to the statement of the Education Adviser, insisting that families have not been affected, the Basque Competition Authority itself points out that it is hardly sustainable that, if there has been an overprice, it has not had a partial impact on families. It is evidence that there has been a million-year breakdown in the public arks, and that the injured have been all citizens, and in particular the families whose children went to those public centers. The same companies took the same contracts for years, and always at the maximum bid price. A private company examines and decides which companies can compete and submit to the contract, the same for long years, Arab Laboratories. In addition, neither the Basque Government technician was accredited, nor the company had accreditation to approve the companies. There has therefore been a cost overrun, as I say, of more than EUR 200 million; it has benefited certain companies for years; it has seriously harmed the families of public institutions. These facts were denounced for years, and the truth is that the Basque Government decided not to move a finger. We therefore conclude that the Basque Government, the different departments of education in recent years, are responsible for action or omission. These are the facts, and from there the proposed part that we have included in the recorded motion. What do we ask with this motion? What we are asking is for this Parliament to demand from the Basque Government that it in turn demand from the companies sanctioned by the Basque Competition Authority damages for the agreed overprices acting as a genuine sign to distribute the contract of supply of the school menus. To modify for the next course the system of awarding the school menu service in the public education network, in such a way as to avoid fraud and ensure the quality of the food supplied. We also propose that the Government respect the decision of the school communities to choose the dining room service model they wish to establish at their centre, providing them with the necessary conditions to be able to develop it. We also ask that the fine of EUR 18 million imposed by the Basque Competition Authority on the companies that supply the school menus directly impact on the dining rooms of the public schools, improving their facilities, and increasing the allocation of the dining grants. That it also investigates the contracting companies of the service during the last decade, in order to know whether, in addition to operating as an organized cartel to distribute the market and to arrange prices, they have been able to incur other crimes. This is what we have proposed through that motion. The other groups that have tabled motions, and other groups that have tabled amendments to these motions, are also, in our view, making interesting contributions, including, of course, asking the Basque Government to refer to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office the decision of the Basque Competition Authority concerning the concerted distribution of the lots of the catering service of public schools. All or almost all of the proposals put forward by the different groups on this issue are consumable, I believe, by the majority of the groups in this Parliament; what is needed now is for us all to try to reach a compromise amendment containing these demands. There has been a monumental fraud for many years; there has been a millionaire breakdown in the public arks; the Basque Government for many years preferred to look elsewhere, not to move a finger to avoid this cartel. This being so, it is logical to think that the different parliamentary groups will demand responsibility from the Department of Education and the Basque Government, as I say, for not having prevented this monumental fraud that has seriously harmed the interests of Basque citizens. As I say, this is the motion tabled by UPyD, but I hope that we will be able to reach an agreement in the next few minutes, which can go ahead with the majority vote of the groups in this House. Of course, we do not think that this can remain so, that this Parliament has to live up to the circumstances. Not only does he have to denounce the fraud committed, he not only has to denounce the inaction of the different governments, but he also has to put forward proactive initiatives so that this does not happen again, and, of course, forward the Basque Competition Authority's letter to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office so that it can analyse the possible crimes in which the different companies or the Basque Government's own department or departments would have been involved. I therefore hope, as I say, that in the next few minutes we will reach a compromise. I haven't been able to talk to the rest of the speakers yet, I don't think there would be any problem. In the event that the transactional is signed, as it seems to be, we will, of course, be very careful to see whether the main demands of the groups are indeed contained there, which I hope, in any case, will be so. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u2	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. After that, Mr. Oyranger de Miguel has the word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u3	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It has already been said, but I think it is good that we can review exactly what we are talking about; irregularities which have their origin not only in the opinion of the Basque Competition Authority, which has actually made a study in relation to the last ten years, but we have indeed been able to verify, from the data that are already public, that, this which the Competition Authority has denounced that was taking place in the last ten years, has occurred since 1997. Irregularities that originate from the very system of contracting established by the Basque Government for the school eaters of the public network: the same companies have taken all the contracts, the same during the last eighteen years, and always at the maximum bid price. I think it's very important that we can repeat it, especially for the Basque public media... ETB, which devotes a very important minutage to talking about the oranges of Valencia and other cases, researches some suspicious cases in relation to what happens in other autonomous communities, it would be very important that ETB also devotes itself to talking about cases under suspicion that occur and that have occurred in our community. It is very important for ETB to also pay attention to one of the most serious cases that have emerged in relation to the breakdown of the public coffers, which we can be talking about a fraud of more than 200 million euros that affects and can affect clear responsibilities of the Basque Government itself. Interestingly, during all those years neither the technicians put in by the Department of Education to supervise the most important contract that that department carries out each year, nor the technicians put in there to coordinate and supervise that contract, nor the political leaders of the department, none drew attention to what was happening, despite the complaints, despite the complaints by the companies and the groups themselves in this case in this Parliament. Everything in this matter, as we said the other day, is absolutely atypical and irregular. It is a process that was thought, we are convinced, to facilitate fraud from its initial stage, because criteria were established that are not comparable to any other public tender. A filter was set up, allowing a private company, casually always the same (always the same), to decide by the Basque Government that the company was the one that filtered who could run and who could not run for the competition. An Alavesa company, Laboratorios Araba, that decided which companies were registered to participate in the competition, and casually for eighteen years, listens, therefore, always decided that only the same companies could participate. And by chance, that filter was the one that made it easier for the same companies to carry the same batches, to distribute the batches at the maximum bid price. Occasionally, no department technician observed that 30% more was being paid in each of the lots year after year; that, as we said the other day, an ikastola that hires 200 menus took out prices 30% cheaper than the Basque Government, which hired 92,000 menus a day. That's weird! Well, no one was getting attention! In the Basque Government, it seemed logical to pay 30% or 35% overpriced in the school cafeterias, in a few years when we were all insisting that there was a need to review the dining rates paid by Basque families. Casually, as I say, the same companies were always approved, always the same filter company, with the connivance – we are convinced – of the public officials. It is not possible for this to happen for eighteen years without anyone in the Basque Government realizing it. Of course it is public and notorious, it was public and notorious that an overprice was being paid. That we're talking about a billion-dollar contract. We are talking about EUR 1 billion and EUR 1 billion, of which between 25% and 35% overpriced, means that these companies have taken two hundred and millions more than they did not, and that of course the tariffs of the public canteens could have been lowered. It is impossible, as I say, for this to happen without the connivance of public services. But the most serious thing is that the department, the councillor herself, ladies and gentlemen, came to acknowledge here that indeed this which had been denounced by the Competition Authority had happened, but that it was not going to happen again. That the PNV and the Basque Government had decided to modify this system allowing fraud, and then had changed the system. They had studied it very well, and in the last contest (end of 2015, which will come into force now, or has already entered into force), for the next four years (which does not go per year, no, no, it is for the next two years, plus two years of extension), the conditions had changed. And what do we find? Indeed, the conditions are changed so that everything remains the same. The conditions are changed so that it really seems that the Basque Government has done something, that the department has intervened, but some conditions are changed for what? So that, by changing the filter company, that is, we move away from... As I was explaining the other day, but I'm saying it so that at ETB it's cool and they can take it out someday, eh! I repeat, it does not matter to you: it is that the filter company is withdrawn for the last eighteen years, with which these seven companies have benefited (possibly, three belong to the same group), and it turns out that the conditions are changed so that, placing another filter... That is, even if you placed any of you, you, in keeping with the new conditions of the Basque Government, would continue to give the competitions to the same seven companies. Because, in fact, Aenor is placed, so let's say "Damn, with Aenor... Hey, 'cause we're not gonna trust Aenor, they're putting it here as a filter!". Listen, of course, but they have put conditions on Aenor that actually only lead us to be able to participate in these same seven companies, because, of course, the requirements of the terms of the contract lead us to be able to participate only in these companies and to be approved. Occasionally, not even the Basque Government, on such a serious issue, is waiting for the new conditions to be met. It says "No, no; we will demand that there be free competition, free competition. Listen, in each lot, that instead of ten we are going to make eighteen lots, we are going to demand that they participate at least two different companies". Listen, we have two different companies in five lots, but they belong to the same group, with the same share capital. Hey, they're the same companies! No, they have two different names, but it's the same company running with two different names. And that's allowed. For what? So, once we've distributed the ten batches in eighteen batches and, well, it looks like we've changed the system... What happened in 2015, with the new modification that was going to solve the problem? That the same seven companies have taken away the lots. And have the lots been taken on this occasion without charging us a 30% overprice? Well, no. In half of the lots, in the fattest, in the most important, the maximum bid is still charged, 30% overpriced. In others, to disguise, no. And what happened in lots where there was no free competition, where only one company participated? Well, actually, no one is awarded. And what's going on, what's done in that lot? Ah, so he's still doing what he's been doing so far, which was one of the fined companies that took him raw. So, they've decided not to take it from anyone to keep doing Auzo Lagun, which is the one who took the lion part of this whole system. And besides, how are you gonna keep doing that? Well, at the maximum price, of course, with the 30% price overprice! Then we have achieved a small savings of 7 million, but we will continue to give those companies another 20 million added profit, so that they follow the same companies fined, the same companies as the Basque Competition Authority said they were kidding us, said they were committing a fraud, said there was a clear concertation to take advantage of and benefit from the Department of Education's largest public contract. It turns out that the department has decided that it is the same companies that will take the lots back, and that they will continue to take them to the maximum price. This leads us to think, ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, that the Department of Education has no interest in resolving this situation. That is why we have been forced to present this motion as a result of the question we put to the councilwoman. In what spirit? In the spirit of contesting the last contest, because it seems to us that it is an absolute deception to our society. That the competition be challenged, that the companies be ordered damages, that it be shown that the Basque Government is not contemplated in this fraud, which may be, if public responsibilities are delimited, the greatest fraud committed to the public coffers in recent years. In this you can talk (yes, you can talk, Madam President) about corruption, and we think that not only do you have to return the money, you not only have to change the contest in a real way: you have to change the contest, you have to challenge the previous contest, and you have to dedicate the money that these companies have taken raw to lower the prices of the dining rooms of the Basque families. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u4	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u5	Good morning, everyone. This week there's an elgonbartar who's been released from prison. We have seen him come out in good time, smiling, and sitting down on that bench in one day, where Mr. Urkullu is sitting. Arnaldo, welcome to Ellobar, welcome home. We'll be your friend in this new era with a smile to build a new Basque town.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u6	Lalabaster, wait a minute. Please, others refer to Sahara, others to other things, so if I don't tell others anything... I'm in order to arrange platons, o se, please, for everyone's silence, and, Mr. Lázarabster, please follow me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u7	Thank you. I was saying that in this new Basque Country we want better schools and in that sense we're going to discuss the subject today. We spent two weeks in the internations, we discussed the fraud of the catering corporations, and explained the circumstances of the fines imposed on by the Basque Rule of the competition, which we mentioned to have been damaged, and the new call that had been made last year was not solved, even though it had been saved by 7 million more than 3. We also stated that macro contracts with catering-pres have failed, and that to solve the problem, in order to correct the problem, we need to change the model for school English management. We are in a new state, which, we believe, requires reflection, reflection, and resolution, and I shall now endeavour to explain what our deliberations and proposals are. 65% of the dining room service cost is paid by the parents and the funk is 35%. But their parents have no resolution about the dining-rooms, they can't decide a single thing, and therefore the first thing they need is that each school can choose a dining-room pattern, i.e. giving them more protagonism in the management of the halls. Some schools would like to manage the dining-room with cartering compresses, and of course they have to give them a chance. What we're proposing is that if you're going to stop the catersing companies, they're able to give you that service, and the schools can negotiate directly with those companies and choose their company, we feel that this proximity will improve the quality of the service. Other schools will want them to manage the dining room, to encourage the neighboring farmers, fishermen, small traders, the same local economy, so they must give that opportunity to the schools. And for all that, of course, there's got to be a change in the rule of the current management, and it seems to us that if you don't do it by yourself, you have to work with different operators around the eating rooms, you have to make a process to fill up a new rule. It seems to us, however, that until the new model of the administration, the quality of the present service, and the conditions of labour, must be confirmed. And why do we say this? Now, because they are corporations who have been fined, still offer service; and instead of paying fines from their earnings, they are tempted to pay for the quality of service and the loss of the labor conditions of workers. And when we know what they are doing, we do not think that they are out of place to have this suspicion. By the way, I'd like to mention that the workers are starting to negotiate the new contract, and that we wish them the best of luck. On the other hand, he hadn't been assigned last year. Sleeping. It seems to us that this lot is to be attributed to the situation, especially to the new catering companies, and to the fraud, of course, that no gap should be left. And since it hasn't been assigned, the contract of four or five years ago has been extended to that 10, the agreement that he got the fine. This, then, is serious and ought to be made of oppression. We also think that in every school there should be a kitchen, a kitchen. And we know that this is a great investment, that it cannot be done from one day to another, but it seems to us that if a multi-year plan is set up, it can be slowly resisted. There is something to be done with 18 million euros derived from the fines imposed by the Euskal authorities of the competition: the kitchens and dining-rooms can be adjusted, they can use the new management model, and they can also be led to lower their parents' dining-houses. And in fine, it seems to us that we ought to encourage a pilot of experience requested in 2014 by the legislature. It's almost two years since he's admitted and hasn't started yet; it seems to us that it's really necessary for us to start on this stage of learning. These are, as it were, our reflections, and our proposals. Seeing the rest of the teams, we're glad you're all presenting the management model in a proposal. Now EH gathered from solitude what he made this proclamation. And in this sense, we have come to a middle-way with EAJ and PSOE. There, our various claims have been left out, but the most important thing seems to us to have been received: changing the jagel management model, opening that path to interact with operatings and opening the door to choose the jagel management pattern for the schools. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u8	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u9	Thank you, President. I'm not going to do a Pedro Sánchez panegyric, because I think that plays in another forum other than this one. But, as far as we are concerned, to know that the companies that supply the menus for the direct management of the public centres have been able to agree to split the market and set prices, according to the Basque Competition Authority, I think it is something serious, that we must worry and encourage us to take action. Something we should do regardless of the outcome of the appeal announced by the eight companies investigated against the sanction imposed on them. The resolution of the Basque Competition Authority shows that collusive behaviours that have been known in other sectors of the economy can also occur – in fact, it seems to have occurred – in areas where there would be less suspicion. We already know that when rival companies agree it is to reduce competition and increase their profits, harming consumers. This is something that has happened with car dealers, paper manufacturers or pay-per-view sports broadcasts. Last year the National Commission on Markets and Competition dismantled fourteen cartels and imposed fines of EUR 549 million, not to mention the billionaire dossiers launched by the European Commission. In the present case, the Government is directly questioned because it concerns a service provided by the Government directly, and in a very sensitive area, such as the feeding of 93,000 schoolchildren in public schools. Therefore, you cannot shake the matter as if it were just dust from the road. It should be pointed out, however, that in its investigation the Basque Competition Authority has not appreciated – and strictly says so – any indication of connivance or favoration by the Administration in the criminalized conduct. The procurement rules have been complied with, but it is clear from the open file that these rules have not prevented the possibility of agreements in the shadow of companies competing for a public service, basically because they seek to guarantee many things on their bases, but, of course, not the principle of competition. And this is something that needs to be taken into account from now on. This case has helped us to discover that in the broad framework of administrative activity there are also captive markets to which we must pay attention, not only from the point of view of legality, cleanliness and transparency, of course, but also from the perspective of competition. Because their restriction not only harms companies that may be excluded by a market share, but also those that pay an uncompetitive price for that service. In this created situation we can act in two ways: with effectiveness, or with responsibility. And we are going to take the second path, looking for solutions to the problems that have emerged and ensuring in any case the best service to schoolchildren who use the direct management dining service. Because that's what it's all about first. We believe that the proposals contained in the amendments to the whole of the three motions, which are basically one, give a fairly complete answer to the questions that this episode has put on the table. We would also like here to congratulate ourselves on having been able to reach a compromise amendment with the Nationalist Group and the EH Bildu Group. First, the Government is urged to send the decision of the Basque Competition Authority to the Office of the Prosecutor to examine whether there are other punishable responsibilities in the conduct that this body considers proven and that penalizes within its scope, so that we do not remain in the field of sterile suspicions and elucidations. The Basque Competition Authority has considered that the eight contracting companies in the catering service have breached the rules of free business competition, by dividing the market without bidding prices to be made with lots to tender. Have they also engaged in other unlawful conduct? That is what we call for the value of the Office of the Prosecutor, who is the one who has the capacity and the criterion to do so, and who also acts accordingly. Another aspect of the investigation by the Basque Competition Authority is the damage that the collusive action of the sanctioned catering companies would have caused by not actually competing to do with the service. The authority itself has pointed out that the prices per menu set by the Department of Education are on average what is usual in the school dining rooms of the other autonomous communities, but also indicates that the increased competition in prices recorded in this school year, after the progress of the research, has resulted in a saving of 7 million euros compared to the previous year. And it is already known that the price of the menu is covered by 65% by families, and for the remaining 35% by the Department of Education, which also gives food grants to students with fewer resources. Accordingly, it also seems reasonable to ask the Government to value whether or not property damage has occurred in the light of the decision. And, if the conclusion was positive, that their legal services would go to the courts to try to compensate the public coffers and paying families for the illicit cost of the service that would have occurred for the greater benefit of the contracting companies. On the third point, I believe that two questions have been answered which have emerged side by side, namely the advisability of introducing into the terms of the contracts clauses specifically designed to guarantee competition between competing undertakings, which is suggested by the Basque Competition Authority itself, and also the possibility, which will have to be considered, of applying other different forms of management of school eaters. The confederation of parents in the public school – recalled Mr Lazarobaster – has called for the launch of a pilot programme for direct management in four centres, as approved two years ago by the Education Commission. In any case, Bildu seems to lean on today's motion for each center to choose the model you want. It will be possible to analyse all the proposals. It is reasonable to study with the parties involved, with all of them, whether there are other viable ways to cater for the dining rooms, which ones, with what food and health guarantees, with what staff and facilities, at what cost, and with what economic and financial controls. It will not turn out in the end that in order to solve the problems pointed out by the competition we put schools and parents in other major problems. Well, we believe that the Government, and the Department of Education in particular, are the ones most directly challenged by the resolution of the Basque Competition Authority in this matter, and therefore cannot be profiled as if it were not with them. We are not trying to look here for guilt, but for solutions to the problem that has arisen. Under his responsibility, that of the department, are the educational centers and the catering service, and therefore his responsibility is to correct the dysfunctions that can be detected and improve it in every possible way. That is what the Socialists want with the initiatives we are proposing and which we have finally signed in this compromise amendment with the Nationalist Group and with the Euskal Herria Bildu Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Let's see the motives. Change the contraction model. The contraction model has already changed. The government of the day changed it. The model currently in force after the amendment does not seem as bad as it was intended to be seen here, when the complainant company itself has not only contested nothing of the same, but has participated in the tender and has tendered its prices. Therefore, Mr Oyarzabal, you lie when you say that you have been able to present no more than them. He's lying. And he lies with the intention of trying to make a case with this government out of nowhere, involving him in matters where he has no way of involving him in any other way. As for the attendance of companies from the same group, if they had worked a little bit on the subject, instead of trying to do this case I tell you, they would have seen that it is endorsed by rulings of the Supreme Court itself. If you want, I'll give it to you in due course. As to why the specifications with these requirements have been repeated by all the groups in this House the requirement of quality, health, etc., and that is why the specifications are made in this way, specifications that no one has challenged on the other hand. Mr Arratibel himself said that he was not against type-approval, but against the way in which it was done. Therefore, there does not appear to be any reason to lower these requirements. As has already been said, approval is now being made by the central recruitment table and Aenor. This, in any case, is not an obstacle to the search for continuous improvement, which is already being done, and hence point 3 of the compromise amendment, in which I am not going to extend because previous speakers have already done so. Indarean daviden kontratuak indargabetzea. With regard to the repeal of existing contracts (I suppose that means resolution), it can only be carried out in accordance with the law in force. We do not see the possibility that this can be done, but we are open to the legal basis and the applicable legislation that might give rise to such a decision. Kalte-ordainak eskatzea. With regard to the request for damages, there is the compromise agreement that we have signed with the Socialist Group, in point 2. Diruaren eibilera. As for the fate of the money raised, I have to remind the groups who have always defended here the idea that in order for the service to be sustainable over time it must tend to self-financing, giving aid to those who cannot pay it, so it is clear that the quotas set for families do not depend at all on the price of contracts, in which the Administration also includes and subsidises other services other than the food itself, such as accompanying or monitoring schools. This does not remove any material damage to the public arks. In addition, the money earmarked for the dining rooms today is sufficient, and therefore there is no point in giving a finalist character to the money that is collected by the sanction, when the principles of public finances say that all revenues finance all expenses. He was a legal politician. As for debugging legal and political responsibilities, okay. It is clear the damage caused to the public coffers, and that is why we agree with the compensation for damages. And as far as responsibilities are concerned, there is point 1 of the transaction, which calls for the decision of the Basque Competition Authority to be brought to the attention of the Prosecutor's Office. But let us go deeper into this issue, which is where the proposing groups of the motions have also gone deeper. The analysis must be carried out at two different levels. The first is related to the collusive practice of the companies dispatched, and the second to the approval procedure. With regard to the first level, Mr Oyarzabal said that it was incredible that during all these years of such collusive practice the Government did not realize. Man, I would add that, following this approach, it would be just as incredible that the Members who have discussed the issue of school dining in this Parliament countless times have not heard anything, despite the careful analyses we have carried out, and that, without exception, we have all repeated to the extent that the system was working well. And more specifically, you, Mr Oyarzabal, who has been the parliamentarian for the most years in education, and who has already done so, were already on these menus when the model agreement was adopted, and continues to this day. I would say more: you, who were a partner in government, did not know anything either. Therefore, it does not seem that the issue was so obvious. Proof that it was not is the same ruling of the Basque Competition Authority, which, being a specialized body, had to use the presumption test in the sense indicated by the Constitutional Court, the Supreme Court and the European Court of Human Rights. If you carefully look at the file, the last thing that can be deduced is that there is an obvious collusive practice. It is just the opposite to the obvious. I therefore find it an excess of disqualifications to governments for not having detected such practices, and even more unacceptable for you to do so, Mr Oyarzabal. But there is yet another issue that further disqualifies him, and it is that gross attempt to focus on the current government that guilt in vigilant. It's amazing. It's such a performance. The current government is on its way with a complaint to the Basque Competition Authority, an autonomous body attached to the department of the Basque Government responsible for economic policy and defence of competition, which, as we see – and this is clear – acts by opening file 6/2013, whose resolution is the one that has originated everything we are debating here today. How, then, can the present Government be blamed for not being vigilant and for avoiding conciliation, if it has already acted instantly through the competent body established for that purpose? That infamy is not sustained in any way. Let's go to the second part, the approval process. As for the approval process, it is stated that it has been in the hands of the same technicians for eighteen years, when the technician you cite has been in the department since 2010, and had not previously participated in the approval process. It is said that it is a process designed from the beginning for fraud in its initial phase, the validation of companies. This is where you, Mr Oyarzabal, try to establish a link with the collusive practice of companies, and you conclude that there has been a treatment of favor and complicity on the part of the government. Well, first of all, I must say that the type-approval procedure is a legally established procedure, and that no one (I say no one) has ever challenged it. Moreover, Mr. Arratibel himself in his appearance said: "I am not complaining that there is an audit process. No, no. What I complain about is how to do that audit, the people who do it. That's what I come to denounce, and I don't come to denounce anything else." Hence Mr Oyarzabal, however, concludes that the collusive practice of companies has been carried out with the complicity of the various governments. This issue, however, is settled by court, as Commercial Aibak brought all the above-mentioned issues of type-approval, technician and laboratories to court following the agreement on this matter of the administrative body for contractual remedies of the Autonomous Community which rejected its claims. Thus, the judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country, Chamber of the Dispute-Administrative No. 582/2012, is given, usually, judgment No. 13/2014, rejecting the claims of the company of Mr. Arratibel, it being clear that the refusal of the approval was due to non-compliance with the hygienic-sanitary conditions required and that the company did not comply with it. The judgment responds to each of the claims, and states, inter alia, that the appellant's allegations can be described as free and prejudicial – just like yours, Mr Oyarzabal – because, in addition to not conforming to the modus operandi or content of the audit team's report, it refers to circumstantial or anecdotal episodes without significance to the grounds and result of the assessment. And it also punishes the plaintiff on costs. There he goes. As can be seen, the Court of Justice shows with absolute clarity the cleanliness of the actions of the various governments. However, you, Mr Oyarzabal, without any other argument than those used in your application by Mr Arratibel and going infinitely further than the entrepreneur himself in his appraisals, amend the plan to the High Court of Justice and accuse the various governments as accomplices in the illegal actions of the companies. But if that were not enough, you, with an inexplicable obsession, are trying to put the focus and responsibility in the current Basque Government, which, if it had not already become absolutely clear the issue by the aforementioned court ruling, given the temporary succession of the facts, the current Government has absolutely nothing to do with the approval procedure denounced by Mr Arratibel, since this occurred in 2011, when you, Mr Oyarzabal, were an indispensable partner of the Basque Government, which was not a member of the PNV. In any event, therefore, it would be impossible to hold the current Government accountable for that process. However, there is one issue that I am deeply concerned about. You, Mr Oyarzabal, who is the Parliamentarian of this House who has spent the most years in education as such and who was an indispensable partner of the Basque Government in 2010, at the plenary session held on 25 October 2010, said the following in one of the many debates held on the management of canteens. You said, Mr Oyarzabal: "Surely it is necessary to review those bidding conditions" (you, the only one who said these things), "to ensure that catering companies that come to these programs are the best and offer a quality service, with the parameters that are already considered to be necessary at the Basque school right now." These words show that you, Mr Oyarzabal, were fully aware of the conditions of access and approval, which is also logical, because, in addition to the extensive parliamentary experience in this area, your status as an indispensable partner of the Government is combined. It also proposes the possibility of amending these conditions. I'm finishing up. However, when the framework contract is tendered and type-approval carried out the following year, which runs until 2015, it not only does not raise anything in this regard, but it also supports the Government. I am convinced – and I am serious about this – that if he did not do what he proposed in 2010, and given his status as a necessary collaborator of government policies, it was because there was no problem of illegal or corrupt practices, as later confirmed by the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country in the above-mentioned judgment. But I want you to tell me. I want you to tell me. And if that's not the case, if I'm wrong, I want you to explain to me the reasons for not raising the changes you announced last year...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u11	Beloved, mesad... ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak:... since he had in his hand the ability to veto any government action. I look forward to your reply, which I hope will be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Passing on the answers, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u13	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. It seems that, in the opinion of the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Oyarzabal is indeed responsible for this monumental fraud, for this millionaire failure to the public purses. Neither the present government nor the previous governments, the current education authorities, the previous education authorities, nor the Basque Nationalist Party, nor even himself, of course, are, but Mr Oyarzabal is responsible. The Basque Nationalist Party is never responsible for anything. This is the summary of what Mr Arieta has put forward, which he has been putting forward basically for many years. The Basque Nationalist Party, which controls all the institutions of the country, is never entirely responsible for anything, either by action or omission. And this is, again, in the end, not taking on each other's responsibilities and trying to sell us the idea that we are responsible for each other. There has been a fraud here, there has been a price agreement here, there has been a pact between different companies, there has been a millionaire breakdown in the public coffers here, there have been thousands of families who have been harmed by a certain way of acting, by a certain way of carrying out these public contests, and it turns out that the different governments, the different departments, are absolutely not responsible for anything. Of course they are, by action or omission. Because he did not realize what was happening, or even because he was perhaps also a necessary collaborator. This is an obvious fact, and I therefore believe that it should be absolutely clear. Responsible, therefore, for this Government, by action or omission; responsible also for previous governments. And this particular government has not moved a finger to essentially change the current model, and I believe that this is a reality. Political groups that have responsibilities of some kind in this matter have come to sign a transactional agreement: the Basque Nationalist Party, EH Bildu or Eusko Alkartasuna, and the Basque Socialist Party. All those who have controlled education in Euskadi in recent years are those who have reached a compromise. And none of these political parties have contacted either UPyD or the People's Group to try to reach a compromise amendment. There has been no communication whatsoever, despite the fact that we have been the two political groups that brought this matter to the debate, and we are the political groups that also want to go further in the next parliamentary sessions, so that the corresponding political or judicial investigation into this matter can be opened, in particular a political investigation to find out who was ultimately responsible for this breach and this fraud. But, anyway, that's the transactional you've signed. And seeing it, then, we can obviously agree on the three points that you have adopted. Especially in the first of these, where it is proposed to urge the Basque Government to bring the decision of the Basque Competition Authority to the attention of the Prosecutor's Office. However, this transaction neither urges the Government to modify the model that has allowed fraud for years, nor to challenge the previous competition, nor that the fine of EUR 18 million has a direct impact on the dining rooms of public schools. Certainly, what has not happened is not even a dialogue with the proposing groups so that one of our demands would have appeared in that transactional. There has been no dialogue, no negotiation, and finally those demands made by the People's Group and by UPyD have not been included in that compromise, which – we believe – is short, beyond what is raised especially in the first point we share and seems positive. Finally, I say, there has been fraud here, there has been a concertation of prices by different companies, there has been a division of lots by the same companies, there has been a clear breakdown of public money, thousands of families have been harmed, and, of course, someone has been responsible for all this for many years. There will have been some responsible! It will be necessary to locate that official, that political official, in order to assume all political responsibilities on this issue. In our view, in my view, it is the current Government and the previous governments, and in particular the most responsible for education of this Government and the previous governments, who have not properly controlled this matter, who have allowed fraud to take place for many years, and who have allowed a millionaire breach to take place in the public coffers. We are therefore prepared to vote in favour of paragraph 1 of the compromise that you have signed, but in any case we will continue to defend our motion. We will vote in favour of it, and we will also vote in favour of the motion put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. Gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, always stop blaming...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u14	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u15	... from everything to everyone else. Stop blaming everyone else. They also assume their responsibility. You have ruled for many years, and of course you also have responsibility in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u16	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u17	Thank you very much, Madam President. Indeed, it is not only that they did not want to talk to the groups that have denounced this case to sign this transaction, but that it is simply signed by the three groups that have had government responsibility over these eighteen years at the head of the Department of Education. And frankly, after Mr Arieta's speech, which you are letting go of here as a mason to shake us, we clearly realize that you do not have the slightest will to reach the end of this matter. The speech you made, as counsel for the fraudsters here today in relation to this case, shows that you do not have the slightest interest in knowing exactly what happened. You came here to defend that everything was fine, there was an absolute cleanup in this whole process, and that, well, apparently, as they said the other day at the show, there were some companies here that took advantage of it, right? And that, of course, how you guys were gonna figure it out! What were the technicians and managers of the department for, the hiring table...? Look, this is Parliamentarians' fault! Man, if you don't think we're in 2016 and I'm in 2010, as you said here, I already said we had to review that contest... In 2010 there were already data, the runrun was already running that something strange was happening here. It had been too many years since the same companies carried the same lots, without competition, without competition, at the maximum price. Too many years. We put it here. Look, look, we didn't rule with the socialists, see if he found out at once. We supported a government, but we were in the opposition, along with you. We are not part of the Government. But not even, as some socialists insisted on me then... As they said, "We rule, but we do not rule." Do you know who's been in charge here for the last thirty-five years? Your game. As everyone knows and everyone who's been at the head of that department knows, who's been running this country and still running it is their party. Then you will have to answer for what you have to answer for today, which is this legislature, and for me to control the government of that legislature. Look, of course everyone who hasn't done anything all these years is responsible! Sure! I have not come here to say that this government is responsible. This Government and its predecessors are responsible. But what surprises me most is that, while responsible for the previous governments, the socialist leaders, are wanting the situation to be clarified... They will surely have the responsibility for letting them keep doing things the way they've been doing. Surely your responsibility is to let you do what you've been doing before. But, of course, that you, knowing that there are already complaints, that you bring the name of Mr. Arratibel, who has already died, who has died, who came here to denounce him with galloping cancer, to say "I have nothing to gain, I have nothing to gain, but I come to denounce this" (he has already died), and that you bring him up saying that I lie, when we have the papers here, that in the last contest that you say you have modified to continue to carry him raw the same... Hey, and you're telling me that other companies have been involved? Why? Because to Mr. Arratibel's company, which is the complainant, and so that everything seems already reasonable, in addition to the seven companies that have been convicted by the Competition Authority... Just this time they have let eight participate: in addition to the seven who have been committing fraud (they have let eight participate), just that of Mr Arratibel. In one of the lots, of the eighteen lots, in one, they let him participate, in the smallest. Listen, and when you go to the smallest lot, it turns out that Auzo Lagun, one of the fattest and most benefitted companies in this contract, turns out that just in that lot, in the smallest, where they have less interest, Auzo Lagun makes a 25 % down offer. Then Mr. Arratibel's company couldn't get into that small batch either. He took it back to Auzo Lagun, the same ones. Then the eighteen lots were taken by the same seven companies, and casually in the only batch where there was a company that was not of that small group make a 25% discount on the price. Now, the rest of the lots at maximum price. Because, incidentally, the conditions laid down by the Basque Government, Madam President, the conditions laid down by the Basque Government to clarify the situation, are that any company that wants to participate has to say what lot it is going to participate in. Then the companies that were in the shell knew that the competitor only participated in that lot. Occasionally, in that lot they offer 25% below the price. Look, you're kidding us. You want to get out of the way with this amendment in which you say that, well, that the legal services study it. Hey, if we've heard you already! You are the defense attorneys of these companies who have defrauded. We don't trust your legal services. Of course, we do not trust anything, because, of course, if we have to act here as controllers of all government recruitments, we are actually going to put ourselves to it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u18	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u19	I'm done. We believe that you are not here for the work if you do not challenge that contract, if you do not change the conditions. Don't give EH Bildu a candy saying that now they're going to leave what they've always denied, that every ikastola does whatever it takes with the dining rooms, to see if that's how they shut up. No, no, The problem is not that every ikastola does whatever it takes. The problem is that there is a transparent competition, where free competition is respected, where families are also respected who are paying for their children's dining room, where we can clarify the truth and go to the end of the matter. The competition must be challenged, damages must be sought, the conditions must be changed. And in their compromise amendment they do not propose any modification of the conditions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u20	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u21	They plan that in the next four years they will study to see what needs to be changed. And that is, with what has fallen here and with the millions that have taken these companies raw, while the Basque government was looking elsewhere, this is a blow to Basque society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u22	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u23	Mr. Oyre generous and Mr. Maneiro knew that we would protect the petitions of the agents. That's what we've done, and we've also made it on a page with groups that don't have the difficulty of signing with us. That's what we've done. I must confess, having known them before, that I thought I had no too much hope of this matter, but EAJ and PSOE took a step. And they've given it the right way, and we're glad. Maybe you preferred things to stay as they were and keep getting wood like this, over and over again. And of course you can do whatever you like, but, in our opinion, you are deprived of any argument with what you received today. However, this matter will continue for a long time, and we shall still be on the way. Because the catering interpreters' problem hasn't been solved, and it won't really be solved until the model of the schools is changed. The problem is the same pattern, i.e. the pattern based on the macro-presing contract, as we believe, and this pattern has failed for us. We must say that time has justified EH Collect. In January 2013, we presented in this parliament a different proposition, as it were, to change the model of the eating rooms in the schools. We were left alone. After a complaint made by a private December, 2014, we presented a motive for changing the school management model, and then we stayed alone. And recently, after the Dececal Rule of competition, we've put all our teams on the table with the model of management. And we're glad, and I don't mean this with any pride. We too, like all of us, don't invent everything and do self-critics, but in this case we see that we've invented it in the school room, and that, on the one hand, because we thought and thought that the management of the eating rooms can't be left only in the hands of economic interests, because economic interests don't often agree with the interests of the citizens, and that the nourishment of children and young men is too important. And, on the other hand, we've invented it because we've heard about the dining-rooms. And they've done a lot of work, and now they're out there. And to-day's achievement, the change of the food management model, the means of interacting with the operators, and opening the school-room model for the management model, we owe it to them, a warm and congratulations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u24	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u25	Thank you, President. I said in the first speech, and I maintain it, that we have come to try to find and give solutions to a problem that we have actually known and which is important. And, look, if I want to say one thing to Mr Maneiro and Mr Oyarzabal: you can't come here and make appeals to dialogue, because dialogue is a concept that requires two to speak. You too could have gone perfectly to the Socialist Group to try to get a compromise amendment! I have not received any calls from either of them; therefore, I understand that they had neither excessive will nor intention to do so. But I'm interested... Because here there is a debate in which certain concepts are sometimes forgotten. A sort of comparison is made: "It turns out that the audience is much more expensive than the concertee... Yes, of course, but it is that the parameters in which the award of this service moves here and in other communities of the rest of Spain, because one thing that also says the Basque Competition Authority is that the prices were and are in the Spanish average... It is that in the public, starting with the wage level, it is different, because the workers who serve in the school eateries of the public network are referred to the Lakua convention, which, as you know, is quite superior to that of hospitality, which is the wage level that the workers who provide that service on the agreed network have. And they have added services, such as accompaniment, which does not have the network arranged. Therefore, situations which are not homologable, which have different characteristics in one and the other, cannot be compared. And I fully understand your attitude. You felt it was important to bring this issue up and put it on the agenda, and I respect it absolutely, but I think we need to cool it down a little bit. I think it's very good that you want to give the appearance of credibility to many of the things you say, but it's also important to say that both that little lab you were referring to, like Aenor, which I think is the one that is now established, set out technical conditions that different companies have to meet. And then it's the companies that compete. Companies which can compete in the Euskadi field, in the Spanish field and in the European field. Because I suppose you will know that this is published in the Official Journal of the European Community, and therefore any multinational in the sector that was interested in it could attend, if you are interested in it. Because that is guaranteed, freedom of attendance. And then it happens, and it is true that it is a situation that draws attention, which are always the same. They are always the same, but it establishes certain conditions that can be met by many, large companies that would like to be involved in this situation. And another very different thing, another very different thing is that they do (the companies say), as the Basque Competition Authority states that they may have done (I say they may have done, so we say that the prosecutor investigates if that is indeed so), collusive practices to divide the market and alter prices, in free competition. Well, in any case, we are interested, and that is why it seems to me that what we have signed is conclusive, that the Prosecutor's Office investigates whether there have been criminal offences there, in that illegal action by companies. We are interested that, if that is the case and there has been property damage, the Basque Government claims it and asks for the return of that money. And we are also interested in starting the study of another alternative management model. Mr.Lazarobaster bets on one, who doesn't have to be the one who gets out; the confederations of parents have a pilot project, and other systems can be established. I don't know what it's gonna be. I am not going to decide, as Bildu does, on that concrete model, because it also has its difficulties. But in any case, let us open our hand so that the Government can begin to launch, from now on, a serious reflection on a change in the management model seems to me to be important. It seems to me, therefore, that the three points raised in the motion sufficiently reflect the concern that has arisen in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u26	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Amaitzeko, Arieta-Araunabeñona jauna, zurea da hitza. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Mr.Oyarzabal, it is good that you acknowledge that we have silenced you. The clean-up of the proceedings is not what I say, it's what the courts have said. No matter how much you want, you can't miss the objective data I've given you, which hasn't hit any. None. He says he doesn't trust legal services. Neither did the prosecutor? Precisely the decision of the Basque Competition Authority has as one of the most important arguments for the application of the presumption test, responding to the claims of the companies, the fact that in no way can it be claimed that the conditional basis of their approval, etc., of the Administration can justify the collusive practice developed by the contracting companies. Since he accepts the resolution, he accepts it in its entirety. To this must be added the judgment I said before the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country. The correct performance of all the governments concerned in this case cannot be made clearer. But it is also indisputable that it is impossible to hold the present Government to any responsibility, since, in addition to the above-mentioned reasons and the data I have given it before, that in themselves are sufficient to sustain this assertion, the succession of facts over time (i.e. the dates on which the proceedings are being held and which you make a connection), makes it impossible to impute, since the present Government begins its mandate after them. But you know that too much. You have preferred to say that you did know the existence of illegalities, and that you did nothing. And he is now coming to denounce this government from nothing, without any kind of argument, precisely because I have told him that the temporary succession of facts objectively prevents his responsibility, even if he knows that you are lying. Today it has become clear to me that you are not seeking the truth at all. What you seek is to make a case, in the best fascist tradition, to this government, a case from which there is absolutely nothing. Look, Mr. Oyarzabal, I understand that you're full of crap, but crap can be removed by cleaning up, or doing what you do, trying to stain everyone else so it doesn't mean it. You're putting on the fan. Then I know that other things hurt too, such as the loss of the city council, the Álava Diputation, etc., etc., and it is unleashed against the Nationalist Party, but that does not allow it at all, because it is absolutely immoral, to try to make a case where there is no. I've given you objective data that you haven't bumped at any time, and that you have no interest in bumping. It prefers the Goebbelian system to launch four messages, to tell ETB to say what you are saying at message level, but not to delve into the reality of objective data. That's you right now. And it's a shame, because I had him well considered, but his despair has already led to this. It has led you to say that you are a predator; that you knew what there was (you are a parliamentarian), and did nothing. It is truly incredible that, as long as it generates a case for this Government, it can say that. But, well, you'll know what you're doing, and we'll see what all these issues are in. Mr Maneiro had not mentioned me before because he asked me on a previous occasion to please leave him alone, who were very few and not to mess with him. But it's just that Mr. Maneiro's is the pure spurt. Look, Mr Maneiro, you have always argued that the system was good and did not understand why the debates were coming to this Parliament. And here are the transcripts of the plenary, anyone can go to them: they didn't understand why these debates, if the issue worked perfectly. And then now it comes, and it changes absolutely the opposite. Why do you do it? Well, you don't value any of the arguments I've given at all. You have climbed into the car of Mr Oyarzabal's approach, because you have already made it very clear that for you nationalism is the enemy to beat, ideological. You do not understand parliamentaryism as fellow travellers, and sometimes to get the public good, and sometimes to be rivals. No, no. For you we are the enemy, and then the enemy must be crushed with whatever it is. It doesn't matter that it's a lie, which is what you usually use, a lie. At no time will you even try to value any argument. You have already said, "I am here to fight this government and to charge me with the Basque institutional scheme," and from there everything works and everything goes. And in this case it also says, "Well, if you can make a case against this government, I'll point out." Because both of them have clearly said this: "The former governments, bah, well, that's fine. No, but here the one who has been for thirty years is the PNV", and the only one responsible is the PNV, indeed. You have not come here today to seek the truth; you have come to try to create a case (I insist, in the best fascist style) for this government and the Nationalist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Maniro Labayen's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favour 11; contrary, 42; white, 0; abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u28	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for Mr. Oyalus' original motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 74; in favour 11; contrary, 42; white, 0; abstations, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u29	So he didn't accept it. And, finally, we vote for EH Collect, Euskal Socialists, and Eubertarians, the middle-line correction that has been signed by the teams. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at table, 72; votes given, 74; supporters 64; opponents 10; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u30	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Second point on the subject list: "Mouton, Antonio Damborenea Basterchea Esquirecha, a member of the legislature of the Pogula Group, a pension system. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Damborena, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u31	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. We tabled a motion as a result of the inquiry we made to Mr Lehendakari last Friday, and above all as a result of the things that Mr Lehendakari answered us. Mr Lehendakari asked us not to do demagoguery, not to use the language of fear or the deficit of the Basque system as an argument for it, and I have never understood that putting the reality of things on the table (because this is not a new topic) is neither demagoguery nor the language of fear, nor anything like it. Because we put it on the table not now, at the beginning of this legislature, but not only related to the pension system, but to everything. With everything. Because we as the Basque Country have a bad future economic trajectory, because our population has not grown in thirty years, and we are all thirty years older. And, therefore, what is the future of a country, a region or an autonomous community, as you wish to call it, with those predictions? And if we look at Eustat and the forecasts of Eustat, they're even worse, it's like five years, ten, fifteen, twenty or twenty-five. But this is putting a dice on the table. We didn't make it up. It's not to scare. Everyone knows that we have been the same 2,100,000 inhabitants for thirty-five years! It comes in all the statistics! And that we're doing years, everyone knows it. So, it's not a matter of demagogy. Demagoguery can be the opposite, saying that we are fantastic with that data. And Mr Lehendakari told us that the principle of unity is not in the Constitution. Well, if the lehendakari says so, I'm not going to argue with him. Of course, in the Statute of Autonomy it is, in the transitional provision. And, of course, it is reflected in all the rulings of the Constitution since the beginning of the 1980s, since there is a Constitutional Court. And he was telling us that pensions in the Basque Country would be safer and more secure if managed by the Basque Government. And I'm out of time here in the interpellation, but now I can ask you a few questions. What management... how can it be better managed, if the revenues do not cover the expenses? What management improvement is that? I could understand that if we had a surplus, you would say, "No, I'm going to manage that surplus and I'm going to manage it better." Mr. Zapatero also had an idea there, with the surplus: "Why, instead of safe things, do we not invest it in a bag?". I mean, I do remember. Well, in the end, it looks like we all managed to convince him that we shouldn't be playing with the stock market pensions, right? How management improves here! Is it going to improve the deficit? Hey, this way he comes in, and this way he comes out. There's nothing better there! And then, if we talk about management, if we look only at the news from Lanbide yesterday, that last year more than 35 million euros have been spent that should not have been spent, then it is a fantastic management! We have to congratulate you all! That's good for you guys! And you're telling me that with that kind of management the deficit we have is going to improve? Or worse? Because this is the management you do! And I am not going to look... because I suppose when the president of your party said that if the pensions were managed by the Basque Government they would be safe, because in Euskadi you do not squander more than you have and act with budgetary rigour, I start from the basis that you are not saying that, as we spend what we have and the deficit is 3 billion last year, we are going to lower them by 30% to not spend more than you enter. Of course, I'm starting from the base that you're not saying that, but, of course, you understand that. You understand that. And then he told us that we refused the transfer because it was harmful to the Basque Country. Let's see, that's harmful to the Basque Country, man, as an argument it's pretty good, I say. Thirty years ago, the Statute provided for a competition which, if I may say so, might well be something you want me to say to you! But you know that's not the reason. Because here's a trap, and our motion is to reveal that trap. And in the amendment that you have tabled, you again insist on the same thing. Look, the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party have been in a campaign for a few years: it is that the Statute is not fulfilled; it is that because the Statute is not fulfilled we have to go to another statute that exceeds what we have... Which doesn't stop being a contradiction, because if the one we have isn't fulfilled, and we're going to go to one that gives us more skills or more competencies... But the other day I reminded Mr Lehendakari that the active employment policies, which took thirty-five years to come to the Basque Country, took because the Basque Government and the PNV did not want to receive them and refused. And they came when there was a change of government, and the new government decided to negotiate the transfer of those powers, and then they arrived. And then they came. And with these others, with the passive ones, we have been thirty-five years, and when you present us with your amendment, or the transaction, which comes to be the same, you do not say, as we say others, listen, that come the competences that correspond to us, with the conventions that correspond to us, as they say the Constitution and the Statute. Man, and also as interpreted by the Constitutional Court, which they now call a scar, in a judgment at the request of the Basque Government, in which he considered in part the appeal of the Basque Government (eighties, eighties). And this is what Mr. lehendakari the other day called broken goods. And when you raise, in point 1 of your amendment and in the compromise you have set, what you raise, you are not raising... I'm sorry, point 1 has now been changed and they call the Constitutional Court a scar. Well, they could have called you 30 years ago, right? At your request, at your request. But in point 2, when we are told to comply with what is set out in the Statute and you begin to quote what is supposed to be set out in the Statute, therefore, of all this which you are quoting, nothing is set out in the Statute. Nothing's picked up. Therefore, here comes to make an appearance that you come to ask for compliance with the Statute, but you are not asking for that: you are asking for other things, including the budgetary and autonomous accounting of the economic result of the aforementioned social security operations. If this isn't breaking the one box, then you will explain exactly what it is! Moreover, please note that, if you had brought this as a proposal for a law, with the report of the legal services of the House, the same one that served not to give way to the popular legislative initiative that called for a pension system of its own, we were told by the lawyers of the House that "a simple textual approximation to the Constitution and the Statute is enough to make clear the impossibility of a legislative fullness in the social security system in general, and in particular with regard to its economic regime, especially taking into account the special emphasis made by the ILP in the management and management of both revenue and expenditure". It is no longer the Constitutional Court, of course, because everyone knows how to read both the Constitution and the Statute. I would, then, beg you, if the Statute is damaged goods, say, "We don't like the Statute," but don't say that the Statute is breached, because if you wanted, or if you wanted, the policies... We were the last community to receive active employment policies, ten years later than the last, ten years later than the last one that had received them, and all because the Basque Nationalist Party and its governments refused to receive them. And in the end, let's see if what's going to happen here is that, of course, if you don't want it to be impossible to reach an agreement, and if you don't want to reach an agreement, then you're increasing what you're asking for, right? With which it prevents the other from reaching an agreement. Because the other can't reach an agreement that's unconstitutional, can it? So, of course, the proposal made today by the Basque Nationalist Party, which exceeds the Statute from above and below and reduces everything, if this is the approach, you cannot suggest that we are not given the competences that are ours or that the Statute is not fulfilled. It's just that you're failing to do it. It's just that you guys don't do it. And then, without going into the... Man, your proposal for your own system, which, of course, you know is not that it's illegal and unstatutory, but it's also a disaster, it's a disaster... Mr. lehendakari told us "It is here that they quote more than in the state; therefore, we have a better forecast". Look, here we have the worst ratios in all of Spain, the worst ratios in all of Spain between contributors and pensioners of the pension, and you know it as well as I do, and it was also published the other day in the press. I won't read it to you, because you know it perfectly well. And I told him the other day, the problem of pensions in Spain is clear that it has been for five years: the economic crisis and unemployment. Of course, there are fewer contributors, pensions obviously continue to rise, and that is a problem. That problem when it's solved? When measures are taken, the crisis is brought to an end and more people are brought into the labour market. And the other problem is that salaries have to be high enough for me to pay those pensions. But our problem here came five years earlier, with full employment, and I told you the other day. With full employment, we were deficient, and without counting, as I said the other day, the Basque pensioners who have decided to go to Benidorm, to set an example, when they retire, because they are reckoned to be perceived in that autonomous community and not in this one. And without accounting for operating expenses: those of officials, premises, etc. And without accounting for temporary disabilities. It wasn't just the 2,500. That's 3 billion deficits we've had last year. All right, now we're in unemployment rates that we didn't have ten years ago, but ten years ago we were 5%, which is practically zero unemployment. It's zero unemployment, and we were already deficient. Our problem isn't that. Our problem here is that no new jobs are created that create more opportunities for more people and that we are more working. That's our problem: more than we were, not the older ones themselves. That's our problem! That's not so much in Spain. In Spain the population has grown in more than 10 million inhabitants; we, zero. And, therefore, any system of your own that you pose to us... And the other day he didn't tell me how it was financed, and when you said to me, "We have to apply the economic concert," and one of your ideas, that maybe we have to do it in the end, is to supplement it through taxes, then I'll tell him to get ready. Because, of course, we do have competition there (the economic concert), we collect taxes. Now, if you have to supplement pensions with tax collection, and 2,500 down, or 3,000 this past year, with a budget that you have of 11 billion euros, which is almost 25% of the budget... The other day I asked you to explain to me, and I ask you again today, where you are going to get it, what taxes you intend to get €3 billion a year just to compensate for the deficit of the past. Because this one will increase by another 300 or 400 million, and next year, because this is the dynamic that we have had for ten years, next year will increase in more. Really with taxes? However, if the Toledo Pact, in which you are also in, agrees that that must be done, this Government will have to adjust the budget to compensate for these pensions with our taxes. And this is no joke, because after the tax hike and after all the measures to prevent people from defrauding it turns out that we don't even meet the income forecasts. We do not comply with them, none of the forecasts made at the time of the tax reform have been met. None of them. And, therefore, what I do want to do today is – and more so after seeing the compromise amendment that you have signed with Bildu – denounce the PNV policy. You denounce the Constitutional Court, I denounce you, because you seem to want to comply with the Statute, and what you do and want is that it is not complied with. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u32	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u33	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not right to cheat on solitary, but there are worse things. For example, trapping pensions, with the safety mattress that advanced societies have created to ensure citizens sufficient resources at the end of their working lives. The truth is that some are cheating, and I'm sorry to point that out. This motion that we are debating today has one origin, one cause: the document that the PNV approved at its recent assembly in Pamplona, in which it proposes to build a system of social security and pensions for Euskadi and Nafarroa. And proper, to clarify the terms, it means separate, segregated, apart from the common system we have at the moment. And it has one author: the People's Group, the Basque representation of a party that from the central government and from the absolute majority in the courts has given the largest known size to our social security system. Because Law 23/2013, which the People's Party adopted in isolation, was not a reform of pensions, but a genuine counter-reform, an ideological cut dressed in economic necessity and endorsed by supposed experts, whom we have denounced from this Parliament at least three times in what we are in the legislature. So here we are, between a PP who wants to present himself as the champion of the common public system, after the size of the pensions in that law and after having left the reserve fund shaking, and a PNV who also says to defend it and who calls for the transfer of management, but in his own way, and who has now revealed to us what his aspiration is: not to try to improve management, which is internationally recognized as very efficient, but to have a particular social security system. A system that would no longer be exclusively public and universal, but mixed, "integrated" euphemistically says the document that approved the PNV at its assembly. But what that means is that it could only guarantee a decent retirement to those who have a high quality job and a salary that allows them a high saving to pay for a private pension fund. And we all know that in the current circumstances of the economy and employment, and in a future that is uncertain and precarious, there will be a minority of people who can save a considerable part of their salary to contribute to an EPSV. With an average salary of less than 20,000 euros gross per year, which is what you are lucky to pay, how much will a young worker be able to allocate to his or her private pension plan? In order to make this debate a little clearer and more positive, we Socialists wanted to reiterate two issues which we believe are fundamental and of principle, two points which have also had broad support in earlier statements in this Parliament. We're consistent. First, to re-emphasize the commitment to a public pension system, that is, universal, which guarantees the dignity of people at the end of their working life. We already know that this system is under all kinds of pressure, and that the effects of the crisis, coupled with the higher life expectancy of retired people, are considerable on financial sustainability. For solutions and adaptations will have to be sought, but with a view to maintaining it, not to charge it, gentlemen of the PNV; and by agreement with the social actors and political parties, not unilaterally, gentlemen of the PP. Secondly, we once again urge the central Government and the Basque Government to work seriously and loyally in negotiating the transfer to Euskadi of the management of the economic system of social security in the strict terms laid down in the Statute of Gernika. Because I do not know whether there has been much or little will on the part of the successive central governments, but it must be recognized that the PNV governments have also not made things much easier by trying to impose an interpretation of statutory forecasts that has little to do with what the Statute actually says. Because the fifth additional provision states that the transfer will be carried out through the appropriate agreements (in plural and tiny terms), and specifies that the unitary character and the principle of solidarity of the system will be guaranteed. It does not say that it will be done through the Economic Concert (in singular and capital letters), which implies, because, among other issues, we are talking about workers' and companies' contributions, not taxes, which is what governs the concert. As far as the PNV is concerned, there is not a violation of the Statute by the central administration in this matter, but an interpretative disagreement in which it is not right. But their involvement in this interpretation, which has delayed the transfer of active employment policies for many years, has been good enough for them to complain that the Statute is not being complied with. However, in view of the last jump the PNV has made, I have to admit that there is something we have missed in recent months, because there is something that does not fit. The Lehendakari told us on the 19th that for his Government the transfer of management of the economic system of social security is irrevocable, and that it must be dealt with in accordance with the Statute. We agree. But, of course, he also used the term "own system" of social security, and it is not the same thing to manage the economic regime according to the common legislation as to have a own social security system, which is what his party proposes. It will accept the lehendakari that affirming that we want the transfer of management, but that what we really want is to create a social security outside what we have in Spain, is not the best way to negotiate the first thing. So much so, that there is even doubt as to whether the party in the Government really wants to take over the management of the economic regime of Social Security in the terms marked by the Statute. It is to be suspected that what he claims with this attitude is rather the opposite: to prevent an agreement adjusted to the statutory text in order to be able to continue to use the excuse of non-compliance with the Statute of Gernika as a lever for its overflow. But, if so, do not deceive the citizens. To carry out what the Statute of Gernika says, the Government can and will always count on the collaboration of the socialists. If it is to make unworkable and seriously harmful approaches to the whole of Basque society and to the pensioners of today and tomorrow, then it is going to be no. They'll never find us there. That is why I support the compromise amendment that we have signed between the Socialist Party and the People's Party, because it comes to defend practically everything that we collected in the amendment to the whole that we had tabled. Because on the one hand it reiterates its defence of the public pension system, and on the other it establishes and urges the central and Basque Government to establish the appropriate agreements whereby the Autonomous Community takes over the management of the economic system of social security, within the principles of solidarity and unitary character of the box. I do not understand how, by taking all the points that the UPyD Group also included in its amendment as a whole, it has not signed the compromise amendment at the end, because nothing in its amendment is different from what is in this amendment. It's an incongruity to me, but, well, I respect Mr. Maneiro. And we did not, of course, want to join the compromise amendment signed by the Basque Nationalist Group and the EH Bildu Group, which is to be adopted here today, because it is clearly not what the Statute of Gernika contains. It also refers to the need for self-accounting and self-budgeting of the economic performance of operations relating to social security contributions, high-low rates of the system, etc. For there is already an accounting for figures of highs, lows, quotas, etc., at national level; for that we do not need to collect it here. But if what we are talking about here, 'budgetarily autonomous'... then we are already talking about an inclusion between the budgets of the Autonomous Community, different, dedicated to this matter, with which we do not agree and I have made it clear. And the last compromise amendment does not reflect the expression contained in the first amendment of the Basque Nationalist Party and the EH Bildu group, where they spoke of a literal system of their own ("Euskadi's own social protection system"), but now puts "The Basque Parliament manifests itself in maintaining in Euskadi a system of public social protection", which comes to be the same, but said otherwise. So we do not agree with that, and we will therefore continue to defend what the Socialist Group has always advocated in these areas: respect for and defence of the public pension system, and then to carry out the necessary agreements so that the management of the economic system of the social security system can be assumed here. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u34	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u35	Yes, thank you, President. The People's Group initially proposed that we urge the Basque Government to negotiate the transfer of material and human resources in the field of social security in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and the Statute of Gernika and as interpreted by the Constitutional Court. While acknowledging that the People's Party intended to uncover the lies of the Basque Nationalist Party, we do not believe that we should urge the Basque Government to negotiate anything on this issue. I believe that what we must do is to urge, above all and first of all, the Spanish Government to prevent the breakdown of the single social security fund, and therefore to maintain the single social security fund as the best way to ensure the greatest possible strength and stability of the pension system, the equality of all Spanish citizens, as well as, in this case, the welfare itself and the interests of the Basque citizens themselves. That is to say, we defend the concept of a single box and the current single system, because it is the one that interests us most, because it is the one that is in danger, and because requesting the transfer of the economic management of Social Security would not really have any relevant impact on Basque citizens. And, therefore, beyond what the Constitution and the Statute itself say, try to sell the idea that with the management of the economic system of Social Security our pensions would be better, or the system would be better managed, I think let's say it is to deceive Basque citizens. And that is why we feel that our amendment is more appropriate, which proposes that the Spanish Government should be directly urged to maintain the single system and the single box. Because, in addition, the most relevant issue is that the Basque Nationalist Party threatened us, threatens us and will continue to threaten us in the future with the creation of its own social security, in successive phases. First the transfer of the economic management of the system, and then the creation of a system of its own. And, in the face of this claim by the Basque Nationalist Party, what we have to say by the rest of the groups, the non-nationalists, is that we do not agree with this claim because it would seriously harm the interests of the Basque citizens themselves, as the Basque Nationalist Party knows perfectly well. The proposal that the Basque Nationalist Party has submitted publicly recently really does not cease to be not only unconstitutional, but directly an entrepreneurial, unruly, myth-filled and data-empty blowjob, which demonstrates, if not the ignorance that nationalism has on the subject in general, and the Nationalist Party in particular, what would prove would be that, in the end, what it seeks is to deceive and confuse the whole of Basque society. In a case of Basque social security, not communicated with the rest of Spain and emancipated from the current system, maintaining the current level of benefits would mean increasing social security contributions by more than 15%, so that, in order to keep pensions in balance with collection, all benefits would have to be reduced by 15%. This would guarantee pensions, but not their amount. And perhaps that's what the sovereignist plot is: to guarantee pensions, but reduced to a high percentage. They tell us that, if that way you don't get there, what you should do is finance through taxes. Good. What are the cuts proposed by the Basque Government in education and health in order to finance these pensions? He has never explained it or explained it, because he knows perfectly well that this would mean a breakdown of the system itself and a serious damage to the interests of the Basque pensioners. On the other hand, the nationalist imaginary always introduces an issue in this debate, the ridiculous myth that they would better manage pensions, and that better management would mean a higher income that would keep Basque pensions at the present level of benefits, without the need to increase contributions or lower pensions. Another lie! The fact is that the management of Social Security is of a highly specialized technical content, carried out at the moment by a staff made up of staff perfectly qualified for such management, experienced in it and with levels of efficiency and effectiveness unequaled by no Spanish public administration. In the face of the myth of good management, it should therefore be noted that the Basque Government does not currently have a single department, a single agency, a single public undertaking, or a similar one, which is approaching or by far the quality levels of social security management. The only body that manages issues in some way similar to Social Security is Lanbide, and we already know what has been Lanbide's management over the past few years, an absolute disaster. And precisely Lanbide's problems are the result not of its own workers, but of the bad political decisions made by this government. It is therefore proven that this is false that we are better at managing things here or the Basque Nationalist Party is better at managing matters relating to this matter. It is shown that this is perfectly false. The Lehendakari recently said that Basque citizenship has internalized that its pensions will be safer and more secure if managed by the Basque Government. That citizenship has internalized it because this is what has happened with health, education or social protection. And he added that Euskadi has no more problems of viability than Spain, it has less, because a system is more viable the more people contribute. "And I remember," he said, "in Euskadi they quote 64 out of every hundred, and in Spain 57." This is also cheating on society, this is lying to society. Euskadi today is indeed deficient, and therefore launching these kinds of messages is deceiving, and knowingly deceiving, because the Basque Nationalist Party knows that what it proposes is absolutely unworkable. Euskadi has been in deficit for years in relation to pensions. Euskadi was in deficit even when he had full employment. Euskadi is in deficit by more than EUR 2.5 billion, and, as Mr Damborenea himself has explained here, this without counting the pensioners we export, without counting the operating costs and without counting the temporary disabilities. It is one of the territories that has the worst contributor-beneficiary ratio. And this is also known by the Basque Government and this is known by the Basque Nationalist Party, and not explaining it to Basque citizens means that what is intended is to deceive and confuse that Basque society. We must therefore maintain the one-size-fits-all cash system. What are the goodness of this system? Centralized single cash management is absolutely recommended, and all experts say so. These types of systems are safer the larger they are and the more diversified their income-generating systems have. In fact, and I said this last time in this plenary, we should move towards a European social security, which is broader than the current one. That would be the future we are defending, rather than splitting what we already have within Spain. Pension systems work best the more universal they are. It is the most sensible way to manage resources of various origins and destinations. It is the best way to ensure an institution built on solidarity between generations, between territories, between regimes and between different incomes. Therefore, Spanish Social Security has to be set up as a single cash system, not only for political principles, which are important enough, but also for issues of its own survival, since the alternative to a single cash box is, of course, a multiple cash box, in which each component of it would respond to its own risks, which would be the first step towards a secure bankruptcy of some of them. That is why bankruptcy, the breakdown of the single Social Security box, is of absolutely no interest to anyone. It is not necessary to split the system within Spain, but to include it, to expand it towards Europe. The public pension system is an elementary, fundamental and basic matter of state in a democratic and legal state. It is the fundamental social base that the welfare state holds, one of the greatest achievements. It is the maintenance and respect for that very important part of society that not only deserves respect for what it has contributed, but also demands dignity, justice and tranquillity. And let the truth be told, that we do not want the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Government, to be allowed to lie to society as a whole. Obviously, we are going to vote against the transactional that the nationalist groups have signed, an initiative and a transactional that is perfectly illegal and clearly detrimental to the interests of the Basque citizens themselves. With regard to the compromise amendment signed by the Group of the European People's Party and the Socialist Group, I must say that I think it is correct and that we can share what is proposed here. But, as I said at the beginning, I think it is better to urge the Government of Spain to guarantee the single social security fund, to maintain the system we have and to improve it, rather than to urge the Basque Government to negotiate with the Government of Spain the transfer of management. Because, as I say, that management transferred to Euskadi would not benefit the whole of Basque society at all, beyond which I admit and acknowledge that what the People's Party intended and proposed in this compromise amendment is to uncover the lies of the Basque Nationalist Party, which obviously does not want this transfer as it is set out in the Spanish Statute and Constitution itself. We therefore maintain our amendment, which I believe is more direct and clearer: to urge the Government of Spain to defend a public pension system, which is unique and unitary for the whole country, and to maintain, therefore, the single social security cash system as a better way of ensuring the stability and viability of the system, and thereby the maximum solidarity and equality within Spain and the very well-being and security of Basque citizens. We propose that the Basque Parliament reject any attempt to break or fragment the current system, which is what EH Bildu proposes and which is what the Basque Nationalist Party proposes. It is therefore the best way to defend the Basque pensioners and the Spanish pensioners as a whole. We must therefore defend a public pension system that is universal, fair, stable and supportive. That is what we are trying to gather from our whole amendment, which we obviously maintain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u37	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief physician, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Before we start, we want to remind you of the victims who have been killed on March 3 and we want to report the attacks which have appeared in memory of them. Our people grow old. All we have to do is look at the Eusta's data. These data shows that at 2008-2020 people grow up to 10% over 64 years and reach to be half a million people, almost 100,000 more people than 2008. This situation is inevitable in a short time. It is evident that the pyramid of the inhabitants is quite contrary, and in this matter we agree with Monsieur Damboreea. As it is impossible to change this tendency, we must guarantee that those inhabitants who are older and older must live with dignity; an indispensable condition, which is not now supported by many pensioners, partly by PSOE and PP's pretty qualities in the Spanish State, which have brought up the co-ordination pensions less than 25% of Europe, and by fifty percent of unconcognised stock. And today, unfortunately, we have to talk about women again. Women charge 40% less than men. The pensions of widows are of the least importance; the differences compared with men again are extremely remarkable, and even more so, these differences are extremely severe. In the same situation there are people who have not the right to be a social pension: Like people who don't work for functional morality. They are collectives that not only find themselves in a situation of inequality; for EH Bildu is more than that: it is a situation of social injustice. The data show that six out of ten Basque and Basque pensioners charge less than seven hundred euros a month, and while the Spanish State, thanks to the rise of 0.25 in its pension, causes the purchasing power of pensioners and pensioners to be kept in irritating parameters, the costs they have to bear in subsisting (in paying for the light or basket of the purchase or in medicines) are increasing. Not to mention the large number of pensioners who with their income have to contribute to the maintenance of their family, because they are also in an unsustainable economic situation. That, therefore, is not our model. Ours is another. Because what is clear to us is that a good pension system must be accompanied by an employment policy which is committed to the distribution of work, decent wages, which increase the base of contributors, and the distribution of income and wealth. And for today the policies that are being carried out are moving away from these purposes. The option of using public budgets as funding is on the dead track, because Spanish fiscal policy is no more. On the other hand, the facts we met yesterday are confirmed that the number of unemployed in the Spanish State has been raised, so that fewer quotes, no more distribution of wealth, no more persons that cotize it. So little chance of improvement. For this reason it is time for us to make this example an end, and to defend our example, since it is clear that this is the only way to ensure worthy pensions to our people, and that is what we propose to this day. "EH" will not admit the limits imposed by the State, and we shall do all we can to get a proper frame, because it agrees with the proclamations of our pensions and pensions, always in order to guarantee worthy pensions." For by a legislator of the people, the pensioners themselves have already asked us for the proper frame, the other, but unfortunately this proposition, against our opinion, has remained in nothingness. But we shall soon bring this dispute into the legislature, because the old and reforming systems of pensions which are now at present become worse, and they do not oppose the necessity of reforming in the Spanish State. To this we must add, that the treaty of Toledo is static and without influence, and that if we associate it with the problem of the prosecuting attorney and of the secret economy, it is evident that the system has failed. That's why the reserve fund for 2018 will be exhausted. The fundamental problem, therefore, is the unfeasibility of the Spanish pension system, as all the reforms that arise are made from a neoliberal approach that increases inequality, and complementing a public and private pension system that does not guarantee decent minimum pensions, but rather sufficient pensions for those who have the financial means to make their own private pension plan. He's not our model, we don't want him. Not to mention the intergenerational solidarity that the People's Party so often mentions. There are just over 35 billion euros left in the reserve fund, and, as we have said before, there may be no money left for 2018. And the Basques and Basques are already solidarity and solidarity, unjustly, by the way, in matters that do not affect us or interest us or want us, as we already contribute to the Bourbons and the military budget. That's why, for all that, we've signed the 1st half-way. we accuse the economic regime of Social Security that it has not taken place in the state of Guernica for 36 years. 2nd point we continue to say that it is necessary to transfer the water-relation of Social Security, in the State of Euskicus Autonomia Eregicus (produce 18.2,) and in the transitory regulation of the 3/1979 Law Organi. This is precisely what is received at the second point of the half-rational correction which we have signed. And we need to remember that the state hasn't been filled, but we don't lose hope. Even so, what are we going to expect from the Spanish Government when yesterday, in what is supposed to be one of the most important debates of the legislature, its political leaders do not remember Euskal Herria, nor do they care about Euskal Herria, nor do they care about the Statute of Autonomy! Therefore, we insist on the need to walk towards our own system, managed by us from the beginning to the end. And this is what we demand at the third point of the middle-point of the correction, the essential for us. That is to say, in our country, the public system of social protection, in order to maintain the system of pensions, is necessary to regulate, to govern, to execute, and to govern the public institutions of society, to maintain worthy economics, and to maintain a decent life. In order to get the pre-eminent transfer, I'm sure it'll encourage the necessary initiatives to do a decent transfer request, and once you've done it, so you can arrange its management. That's what we agreed on at the fourth point of the media. In conclusion, we must state that the agreement obtained with EAJ is good and satisfactory. We're going to give our opinion on the second round of PP and the middle-class signed PSOE, and now I'm out of time and... pues no tiene despdiecio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. President, good morning. Good morning, chief of departments. Mr. Damborena, the Representative of the Collector, as Mrs. Blanco told you, the medium that we signed, is perfectly compatible with today's status quo. He told you that his own frame was left outside, that they had done their best to have the whole power of entry into the limits of the laws, and that's where he stopped. You said it's contrary to the state, that it's anti-constitutional. It's a perfectly legal middle correction. We are within a concrete regime in the legislature, and we must interpret the state, and read it, as long as the law is at present established; so that what you have said of it is not right. You said no demagogy, that the lehendakari in the interpellation told him that no demagogy had to be done, no use of the language of fear. And, of course, it's that, what is demagogy, you asked. To demagogy is to present this initiative when the People's Party has had an absolute majority in the Government of Spain for four years and, as the lehendakari recalled, the policy it has followed is the policy of the doorman. And not only each time the Basque Government has presented itself in Madrid, claiming and with the Basque agenda asking that we could talk, that we could talk, that we could negotiate in order to make progress on this, also every time this Basque Parliament, on several occasions in addition, has called for progress on this matter, the People's Party in the Government of Spain has done absolutely nothing. Nothing. It has never sat down, nor has it given the opportunity to sit around a table to move forward in the negotiation of this point. Therefore, its amendment itself is pure demagoguery. You referred in your intervention to the lack of population growth, and said that such data should not be concealed. Who has hidden this kind of data, if the lehendakari in the interpellation told him and insisted on "We have to take action, the situation demands that action be taken as soon as possible"? But not only in Euskadi, he also told him in Spain. Because the elements and variables that are affecting, negatively affecting the evolution of the fund, affect Euskadi and affect Spain. And that's when I was giving him the data – which Maneiro has mentioned some of them – for example, that they affect Spain to a greater extent, when the contributors are 64 in Euskadi, of a hundred, while in Spain they are 57 of a hundred; when the unemployment rate is ten points higher in Spain than in Euskadi. But, of course, I never believe that I will ever have heard anyone, any member of the Government or any member of our parliamentary group, or any member of the PNV, pretend to hide the reality on this issue, but on the contrary: to warn about the situation, and that measures must be taken as soon as possible in order to be able to resolve the situation. We'll manage better. This was a question to what you asked: "How, if the expenses are greater than the revenues?". Thus, by proposing alternatives not only to expenditure, but also to income, as Lehendakari did in his reply: by proposing alternatives through taxation, through modification of expenditure, by complementary means, as has been proposed in other options, by complementing with another type of system, such as that of EPSV. We will have to analyse, and for that we will have to sit down and we will have to dialogue, we will have to negotiate, and we will have to establish what the model is, altering and modifying income, and spending in its case as well. They refuse to transfer because it's better for Euskadi. Something like that you said. You refuse the transfer because it is the last bastion left to the Spanish State in Euskadi (almost the last, you have another). That's why you refuse to transfer. It refers to the Basque Government's campaign that the Statute is not being complied with. It's a reality like a big house! It's no campaign, it's a reality, and you know it perfectly well. What is happening is that it has no interest in progress in this area. Judgments of the Constitutional Court. You keep some sentences but you forget others. "Of everything they say, there is nothing in the Statute." It referred to the second point of the amendment that we have signed, and that was also our original amendment. Look, that paragraph is the interpretation that we do of what we are entitled to under the Statute, and in addition all that arises are acts of execution, which are mentioned in the judgment, perfectly legal. And we could go even further, making use of article 18.2 of the Statute, which we could also make legislative development without entering the economic regime. It's perfectly legal, and we could even go further. It is important to make the difference and to internalize the difference that the box unit is not the same as the single box. Even the Constitutional Court makes that very clear. Even the Constitutional Court makes it very clear! It is not the same as the single box, which, by the way, Mariano Rajoy in Congress, responding to our spokesman Aitor Esteban, said that the single box was contained in the Constitution. We would already like to be told in which article of the Constitution reference is made to the single box. Even the Constitutional Court distinguishes the two aspects, and it should be noted that the Constitutional Court has also removed the famous brush from the brush. It is curious that you, the People's Party and the Socialist Party, now sign a compromise amendment referring to the defence of the public pension system that guarantees the dignity, the dignity of people at the end of their working life. You, the People's Party, which passed Law 23/2013 of 23 December 2013 outside the Toledo Pact, which regulates the Sustainability Factor and the Social Security Pension System Revaluation Index, against which this Parliament has spoken. And you too, Socialists, have spoken out against this law. You Socialists; that you, Mrs Sánchez, are referring to the "greater size" of the pensions of the People's Party, when in 2010 Mr Zapatero suspended the revaluation of pensions except for contributions and minimums. You, Mrs Sánchez, say that you are consistent with what you do and with what you have always said. Well, I'm going to take out the Socialist Party election program, the Euskadi Socialist Party government program in 1980, and I'm going to read it to you. Coherent? Coherent? The coherence of the socialists is this: "With regard to the economic benefits corresponding to the Institute of Social Security, article 18.2(a) attributes to the autonomous government the management of the economic system of Social Security, so it must be provided for the creation of a general treasury of the Basque Country as a single box" (you asked for it as a single box!), "where, at the same time as uniting resources, the collection and payment services are in charge". That's the coherence you're appealing to, apparently. You, who say that there has never been a breach of the Statute; you, who have signed with us this: "In this matter, the Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to comply with the forecasts contained in the Statute of Autonomy for the Basque Country". How then did they ask him to comply, if he was already fulfilled and if there was no breach? Explain to us that "there is no non-compliance, but I ask that there be compliance." We don't understand. Well, I'm out of time. I have seen that you are very curious about the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party. Then, if you like, in the second round I give you more information about it, because I don't think you've understood it at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Monsieur Damborena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u41	Thank you very much, Madam President. The Socialist Party... What your party or mine have done in Madrid we can talk about quite a bit, but I will only tell you that the last reform of the Pensions Act that was approved has allowed Spanish pensioners to revalue their pensions (a little, 0.25 %), and that the inflation was negative. That's what inflation was negative. And unlike what they have just remembered, Mr Zapatero did, which froze them with positive inflation, and that is to lower them. But, well, in any case, as in substance and in the transaction we agree with you and us in what the national social security system should be like, I thank you for the transaction we have arrived at. Mr Maneiro, you tell me that your amendment calls on the Government of Spain to maintain the single box. Hey, and our guy from Spain and the Basque, both of you! I mean, I think ours is more complete. But, well, I'm not going into that. And Bildu tells us that climbing the 0.25 is ridiculous, that his model is another. We already know him: they brought us here to the Greek minister, who is now a former minister, those who have just lowered pensions in Greece by more than 30%. We already know that his model is another one. We disagree, and I do not think we are ever, either on this or on many others. And the backup fund will be over? Or not! Or not! If we go back to the policies of the Socialist Party, yes. If we continue to implement reforms, maybe not. Perhaps the reserve fund, which, by the way, was created by the People's Party after arriving at the Government in the year 96 with the box at zero, will be increased again. Only yes, but to zero. Zero. And it was created for when in times of crisis there is unemployment and does not arrive, people can receive the pensions they had. And, Mrs. Gorospe, you tell us you're surprised we asked... Of course, we do ask that the Statute be complied with! It's just that you say, "We ask it to be fulfilled," but it's not true, because you ask for something else. Sure! And you say to me, "We have to interpret the law and develop it." Sure! And when two don't match, one goes to the referee and says, "Let's see what the referee tells us." And in this case the arbitrator was the Basque Government of the Basque Nationalist Party, and the arbitrator, who was the Constitutional Court, estimated them in part. He estimated them in part. And that's what you now call broken goods, in the words of the lehendakari, and then we don't want that. Yes, but it is that the arbitrator, when there are different interpretations – which is the one that, in the end, we all named and approved, which is the Constitutional Court – said how it had to be. He tells me, "Man, there are fewer contributors and so on in Spain." Sure, 'cause there's more unemployment. Because there's more unemployment! But the personal ratio of people, of how many contributors we have as a pensioner, is much lower than ours. In a lot! If we're almost the worst in Spain! But you know that. I mean, don't play with a statistic that's unreal. There are more contributors here today, per cent, than in Spain because there is less unemployment. And when unemployment is reduced in Spain, then it will be similar, as it was. And you tell me that we have to take action... Of course we have to take action! If we've been asking for them for four years! Or what have we been putting forward for four years here? That we are still 2,100,000 as we were thirty-five years ago, that the Basque Government has to put the batteries in order to generate jobs, that companies come, that new jobs are created and that there are more contributors. But we've been asking for it for four years! Because that's what saves the system, that there are more contributors, that there are more employees, that they contribute, and the more they contribute better. And everything else is... You tell us through taxes. Hey, by taxes, then, I'm telling you. And Bildu's was also telling us that we're financing... Hey, how much do we pay for quota a year? Half last year's pension deficit? Less than half last year's €2.5 billion deficit, what are we talking about? I mean, what we're talking about, what we're financing and they're financing us. Let's see if... The Nationalist Party tells us through taxes. I told you I was taxing you. Hey, 3 billion euros last year! Let's see, through taxes, how we make up for that here. Tell me what taxes you plan to raise. And when you tell me the EPSV... Hey, there's EPSV. And the approach of the Basque Nationalist Party with which it already exists, what is it? Are the new, that new system mandatory, or do we combine everything with the Social Security box and those who have it there because they are left without it? Because that's what they haven't explained to us, and I also asked the lehendakari the other day. But please, since I am told the taxes, you can tell me what taxes in one year (in one year), for last year, for this year will be 3.4 billion euros, for 2016... With what taxes do you tell me that we can make up for the deficit we have in the Basque Country?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u42	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u43	Thank you, President. Look, Mrs Gorospe, I have understood perfectly and I have read perfectly the compromise amendment. But, as I explained very broadly in my first speech, my group, the Basque Socialists, does not share it at all. And we understand it perfectly. Look, in his speech yesterday in the investiture debate held in the Congress of Deputies, the spokesman of his party, Mr Aitor Esteban, asked the socialist candidate for the Presidency of the Government not to reinterpret the organic laws, and to respect the competences as we agreed. Well, what the Socialists are proposing with this amendment is that it does not intend to reinterpret what the Statute says, which is an organic law, in this matter. And that the powers are respected, which in the case of the management of the economic system of social security as agreed. And that socialists defend what is laid down in the Statute in Article 18 and in the fifth transitional provision is not only out of fidelity to what was agreed in 1979. It is because we believe that this formula, which makes the unity and solidarity of the system compatible with its management in the Autonomous Community, is the most suitable for all the Basque pensioners of today and tomorrow. And we argue that this system, as we indicate in the first point of our amendment and the compromise amendment, must be public. What you will have to explain to me is what has changed in your group to move from repeatedly supporting (the last time I remember, on May 8, 2014) a public, universal and pensionable system, and a strict reading of the Statute, to putting forward all the variants that are now coming up with all their nuances. And you signed it, Mrs. Gorospe. Well, perhaps your party has approved a document that goes beyond now, and that proposes a separate social security for Euskadi and Navarra, which is neither statuary, realistic nor viable. Someone who knows the system well, such as the person who led the Secretary of State for Social Security during the years 2004 to 2011, Mr Octavio Granado, in his day equated it to the milk story. First they would have to explain how this separate social security is constructed, unilaterally and to the brave, as the Catalan nationalists claim. Say it, say it, what they really want. But then the whole approach is pure fiction, a succession of voluntary assertions, lacking economic data to support them. It is argued that the system itself is public, sufficient and irregressive. That is enough to be seen, as has already been said throughout the debate, because for ten years now the gap between the contributions that Euskadi collects and the pensions that are paid has not stopped growing. Now it's over €2 billion, and it's going to increase, because we have fewer and fewer people, our retirees are paying more, and they're going to last longer. Speeches can deceive, the data do not deceive: the 533,000 Basque pensioners account for 5.7% of the total, but absorb 7.1% disbursed by the concept of social security. You will already tell me where we get the more than 2 billion a year, a fifth of the budgets, which should be allocated to cover that hole, and what cuts are made, what services should be cut to get it out. We do not want the ruin of Basque institutions. Irregressive, aside from the word, is a joke. They know perfectly well that what characterizes a pension system is its adaptation to changing situations, and no one can ensure, and less so today, that existing pensions are maintained in their current terms whatever happens. And the public is contradicted in its own document, as it is said that the segregated social security for Euskadi and Navarra will consist of a public system financed by contributions and taxes, and a voluntary and free complementary system. I mean, he's talking about a public system... They are talking about a semi-private mixed system, and no solidarity, because it will only guarantee decent pensions to those who can pay a private pension plan. Mrs Blanco, you say that you do not defend a system that is based in part on the pension fund, but you sign the transactional that you are signing today with the Basque Nationalist Party, where that situation is being picked up, as I have indicated in my presentation. And then, finally, to point out that at the third point of the transactional amendment you are not only talking about this public system of your own for Euskadi, but that it is essential that the social security system be developed legislatively, implemented and managed by and from the Basque public institutions as soon as possible. Well, we obviously do not agree with this own system of social protection in Euskadi as you propose. And we have fully understood that, and that is why we are going to defend and vote for the compromise amendment that we signed today with the People's Party. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u44	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Miss... ? He won't say a word. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u45	We also intended, in the second round, to talk about the Socialist Party's electoral programme in 1980, but Mrs Gorospe has already done so. Mrs Sánchez, I encourage you to read the compromise amendment that we have signed well, because I am afraid you have not interpreted it well. And let's go to what you have signed, which, as I said in the first round, has no waste, because having to endure that the People's Party repeats its defense of a public pension system that guarantees the dignity of people has fabric. You must have little shame to sign what you have signed, when you are the cause of the pensions that are being collected today being how miserable you are. And if that seems to you to live with minimum quality conditions, with decent conditions, then turn it off and let's go. Turn it off and let's go. And I'm not going to keep commenting on what's coming next, because I've already choked myself on this first point, Mr. Damborenea. You speak of the importance of the Toledo Pact. They know that even as far as annual increases in pensions are concerned, this is not being done. And I remind you again of the miserable ascent of 0.25, not that of the IPC, that with that little more than you get to have a coffee a month with the ascent, a bar of bread. When they question the funding, well, I have to remind you that an important part of the historical fund of the Social Security Reserve is the Basque contributory citizenship, above the 6.24 reference of the Cup and the 6.55 which currently represent the contributions of Basque citizenship. And, given that today this fund reaches the figure of about 35 billion euros, at least 2.5 billion would be the responsibility of the CAV, to which the historical debt should be added. That would be a mattress more than enough to address that transitional phase. Moreover, if at the time the first Basque Government took in competences such as education, universities, health, roads, with a negative sign (more expenditure to be made than was not paid for Cupo), and it went ahead, then we do not understand why not in this case. Mr Damborenea, 50% of the pension guarantee fund has been spent. I told you in the first round: your system is doomed to failure. And we, of course, are not going to get into that loop in which you get involved between one party that has been in the Madrid government and another. That doesn't matter. At the moment the truth is that we are not interested, because it is not our game, and we don't care about the group that has been ruling in Madrid or the political color that it has been, because in the end the result has been the same. Surely Mr Damborenea will find it much better that now we have to retire at the age of sixty-eight, or at the age of seventy, or you will find out at what age we will have to retire the people of my fifth, for example. That is just as well for you, and in the meantime you continue to allow young people not to enter the labour market, because they neither make policies for it nor take care of having decent wages. So, many also have to go abroad, and thus also prevent the contributions from increasing. And especially to you just as it seems a good formula that you have gotten out of the way, increasing pensions by between 5 and 15 % to women who have had two or more children throughout their life. I mean, what you're proposing and what you're promoting is that role of procreative woman. Rabbit woman, you have four or five children, because we're going to make up for the day you retire with 15% more, because you've been very good. Now, if you haven't had kids or you've had one, bad, bad, you're gonna get the same pension. That is what you propose, and we do not understand for what purpose. Why? Why do they do it? By encouraging birth, do they do it for that? For benefiting from the care system? Listen, if it is because of the care to which these women have devoted themselves, they are forgetting so many women, so many women who have had to reduce their working hours, so many women who have contributed so much less and therefore their pension is going to be much lower, because they have had to devote themselves to other care, regardless of whether they have had children or not. Therefore, seeing where you are going, I must reiterate once again that I am pleased with the agreement we have signed. And, actually, if they had agreed to what we signed, I would have gone to the chair terribly worried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Finally, Eucabertarians represent the team. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u47	Thanks again. Mr Maneiro, in my first speech I forgot to ask you a question. You say it's deficit, that Euskadi's deficit for many years. Since how many? Since 2008? Since 2009? Do you know how many years Euskadi has been a net contributor? Do you know how many? More than 50 years. More than fifty years of Euskadi being a net contributor, and now you're telling us what a bad thing it is that we get our pensions paid? Man, a little... , a bit of shame to make the statements. In recent years and the latest data are already changing, and we'll see what we've come up with. More than 50 years as net contributors, that is the reality. Mr Damborenea, I was wondering what the PNV approach was with regard to EPSVs. That they're mandatory? No, Mr. Damborenea, not at all. The approach is an approach to a voluntary or free complementary system – Mrs Sánchez has also read it – which has been enhanced from fiscal approaches, above all, to positive discrimination against employment-related EPSVs. You were also asking: "And what kinds of tributes?". I also say to him: a public system financed by taxes that are mostly non-contributory, but also by income guarantee. Question-answer, so you don't say we don't answer him. They pretend, and this is the big problem... The problem is that you intend to curtail what an organic law establishes. What an organic law agreed upon, an organic law endorsed, submitted to referendum of the Basque people and approved by the Basque people..., you intend to curtail what is established there and what is fixed there, and the competences that are collected, with ordinary laws. And courts often submit their interpretations and consider such laws, and that can't be. That can't be, a Constitutional Court that looks like an intensive chain of brushing, by the way, of many things, too, of this one. They want to, Mrs. Sanchez... We intend, as I told you before... You said "we plant the same thing," and we do the same and more detailed. The same and more detailed, so that we move forward to know what each one of us is talking about. And what we are also doing is denouncing, denouncing that thirty-six years without Social Security is a punishment, a punishment to which they are subjecting this people; that the debate about the inviolability of the Basque social security system is a fallacy; that this is a question of political will, and that neither the People's Party nor the Socialist Party wanted to solve. That Basque society has internalized, as Lehendakari said, that its pensions will be better managed and guaranteed in the hands of the Basque Government, because it has been and is with the health system, because it has been and is with the education system, because it has been and is with other benefits of the Basque model of social protection. That is why it is no myth, Mr Maneiro, that you manage better here at all. We repeat, it's a matter of political will. These things, like other political areas, require interviews and negotiation, and they don't slam at all, like the old days when you get in touch with the Basque and the Spanish government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the half-correction that the Basque Groups have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes given, 69; the supporters are 25; the opponents are 43; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u49	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of Misto-UPyD. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes given, 69; the supporters of 1, 58; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u50	Integer correction not allowed. And finally, we vote for EH and the Eubertarian contractors who signed it. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes given, 69; the supporters are 43; the opponents are 26; the whites are 0.0; Absence is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u51	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by Jon Azkue Manterola of the Basque Socialists as a member of the team, is a protocol for assisting workers in a difficult situation. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Azkue, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u52	Andrea president, Sailburuok. Today, March 3, a special day, of special relevance in the defense of workers' rights, a day to recondemn the massacre that was lived in this city, but also to remember the values that defended those who were killed. As a Basque, socialist and trade unionist, it seems to me that the opportune thing is to start with this memory, with the condemnation of those murders and with the demand for solidarity between the workers. And this date coincided with the debate on this motion with which we also talk about workers who rejoin forces to defend their jobs when they are threatened. This reason leads us to our interpelation in February 19, as a compromise, because we thought it was not answered by our petition as an answer. Our request wasn't whimsy, and, as I said to Mr. Toña, the proposals that are confirmed in this Chamber are to be accepted, and in this case, I'm afraid it's not made up of her needs, and this time we can get her to be satisfied with it. And before the defence of the socialist proposal, a preliminary clarification not to pervert the debate: this initiative intends to improve all public efforts, all of them, to ensure that companies at risk find ways for their viability. In this public effort we must count on the contributions of those who know these companies better on the inside, who have contributed to their operation, who must find ways to make their proposals heard, both to maintain jobs and to guarantee their rights: langileak, the workers. It is therefore not a question of questioning what the Government has done. The aim is to improve the Government's initiatives. Because the penultimate case that has impacted public opinion has been that of ACB in Sestao, and the answer has been quick and unanimous. We have all agreed here and in other institutions to show our solidarity and to bet on the future of the plant. The government launched – a little late perhaps – a crisis table for the steel sector. Lehendakari took advantage of a previously agreed visit to Brussels to move the demands we share, to fight dumping and to address a reform of electricity tariffs. And this suits us well, but more can and must be done. I am going to focus on the most vivid example we have today, in order, in addition to calling for concrete measures that can and should be taken on the situation of the workers of ArcelorMittal de Sestao, to give reasons to remove the fears expressed by the Government in drawing up a protocol of action. First of all, I will refer to the mandate adopted in November 2014. This Parliament called for a special protocol to accompany and advise workers' representatives from firms in difficulty, in addition to ensuring that these representatives are provided with information and channels to offer their proposals for the protection of their rights and to participate in viability plans. They will allow me, from now on, to explain to them the account of the actions that the socialists, with Idoia Mendia at the head, carried out since the same day that ArcelorMittal's unilateral decision to establish an anachronically called "indefinite" stop in his steelworks in Sestao was known. First, urgent meeting with the most representative trade union organizations on the plant, to get first hand their opinions on the stop raised by the group's management; analysis of the situation of Sestao and of all the plants located in Euskadi belonging to the multinational ArcelorMittal. See the difference: this Monday, in the presence of the works council in this Parliament, we were told that the first meeting with the government was set for workers' representatives yesterday, 2 March. Two. Meeting with the management of the plant of Sestao in the facilities, in which they were also asked for solutions for the most disadvantaged by the stop, eventual and personnel of contracts. And subsequent meeting with potential workers who remain outside the ERE umbrella, even if it is not correct to consider EREs as umbrellas. Three. Travel to Brussels, accompanied by the most representative trade unions and members of the company committee of the Sestao plant, to first hold a meeting with representatives of the most numerous groups of the plant, Mr Tajani, former Commissioner of Industry, and Édouard Martin, and to attend it by the permanent representative of the central government, then allowing a meeting with the representatives of the Commission. There we witnessed how the joint action of all the Basque MEPs was managed on a socialist initiative, which, in addition to formulating an initiative in the European Parliament raising the issue, have addressed Minister Soria and the Commissioners of the Internal Market and Industry (Mrs. Benkowska) and Trade (Mrs. Malmström) requesting anti-dumping measures against Chinese steel, as well as the non-regarding of China as a free market State as long as it does not meet the conditions required for this. I mean, why, as I said before, the most important difference is not to do it, but with whom, Etrude with the workers, we must go out and see the business crisis. This Parliament began its proceedings with regard to Arcelor de Sestao with an institutional declaration that is now literally being reproduced in other institutions, which marked this path. And we said that, in addition to our solidarity and our commitment to long-term industrial projects, we all called on the Government to coordinate with all social and institutional actors. And if I repeat it as I said in the inquiry, it is because we proposed the institutional declaration, and we include this text outlined at the request of trade union organizations and workers' representatives. In this way, we managed to escape the goodwill of statements of solidarity or to share concerns with workers and their representatives, who have agreed to flexibility in the face of historical achievements to carry the company forward, despite the difficulties that have been experienced since the beginning of the crisis or what leads to globalization without regulatory mechanisms. Today that protocol seems even more relevant, because today there are more companies with doubts about the international economic waves. And today the workers need more that guide that we propose to make and have common minimums shared. This is what we have come to claim and the fundamental reason for our demand to comply with what was approved in November 2014. It is a question of coordinating, because, if not done, the problems that arise in these situations involve leaving dead, which, in our opinion and that of the workers, require urgent answers that have nothing to do with the actions to be undertaken and adopted in the face of the slow bureaucracy of the European Commission, which of course we must also resolve. This is the right direction, and here is another question: how have the activities of the Economic Development and Employment and Social Policy Council been coordinated in the Government? I say this because, as far as the counsel's response was concerned, in addition to explaining the difficulties of establishing the protocol, there was no talk of relevant and immediate action in the face of the desperate situations that occurred in more than twenty-five potential plant workers, or between contract workers and the auxiliary industry. Because only by coordinating with the workers can we hit the keys without mismatching. And this is our approach with respect to the protocol, which I am convinced I can convince you to adopt: One, follow-up with workers and their representatives from companies affected by EREs. Two, coordinate government actions in their different areas together with workers' representatives, so that they participate in government actions before the various institutions when situations of crisis occur in companies. Three, to intervene before companies in the complementary measures required. It is also, after living with the workers in our group, so this motion comes to add, at the request of this protocol, specific issues for the ArcelorMittal plant and for the steel factories. These are issues that have once again been raised by the Works Committee at the hearing that we held in this Parliament on Monday in the Committee on Economic Development and Competitiveness. This motion urges the Government to adopt, through Lanbide, specific training plans for workers covered by the ERE, while the ERE is in an indefinite situation. Both the management of the company and the workers are aware of the need to be prepared at all times for a return to normality, a return to production, which logically requires permanent training. This motion includes a specific paragraph and a request to the Government to accept by the company solutions to the least protected and who are seeing their contracts extinguished: solutions to the eventual ones, either from the possibility of being integrated into the EREs, or so that the company does not paralyse the application of the relay contracts that link to much of the eventual ones with their contract, establishing the measures that make possible the permanent non-destruction of the eventual contracts and pressuring the management of Sestao to take corrective measures to the termination of the contracts. And in this sense we must also defend the workers from the contracts. At another level, we also urge the Government to explore, within the scope of Community regulations, what is already applicable in some European steel industry, such as the Italian Abertis. The Commission was very clear at the meeting we had with it on the possibility that the Basque Country could manage aid which would not in any case be regarded as State aid, based on environmental energy actions. We were the first to talk about white certificate, and we want you to explore it and bring it to Euskadi. And we are glad that Mr Rementaria adds to the possibilities of management in this field. They don't need anyone's permission, do it as soon as possible, because our steel industry needs it. In this section there is not only ArcelorMittal, but all our steel industry. The way is not, and you know it, for the government to send a message of tranquillity to the workers of Tubes Gathered before an employment regulation file. That is why we are convinced that this House will unanimously approve the motion we have tabled. We owe it to almost a thousand workers in the steelworks in Sestao, to the citizens of the Left Margin, already punished by unacceptable unemployment rates, and also to the thousands of workers who are living today with total uncertainty the clashes of globalisation and the inaction of the European Commission before it. And I do not want to forget the chapter on the responsibility of companies, of what we all assume, and we boast of it: the social responsibility of companies. We will have more days for this debate, but it is the Government's duty to take this into account and to hold Mittal accountable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u53	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u54	Thank you very much, Madam President. We had tabled an addendum amendment which I believe is reflected in the compromise that has been tabled, and I believe that there are two issues here, one more generic and one more concrete. A generic one, from generic companies in crisis, with problems, in crisis, and the way we act, which we understand that, in the end, that is what Lanbide is for, and therefore it seems right to us what is being proposed. Then there is the specific theme of the ACB, of ArcelorMittal, and then there is another theme derived from this and the others, which is the competitiveness of Basque companies. And that is why our amendment to add on this point to what he urged and what he urged the Basque Government to do is to take steps to make our companies more competitive. And that's how we're doing almost the whole legislature. We carried almost the whole legislature like this, because we started with some going to Cantabria, others going somewhere else... I mean, that's how we run the whole legislature. We have a Basque government and an autonomous community with more competences than any region in Europe or the world, at all levels, in income and expenditure. It seems a lie that communities more or less borderline have legally established, with the approval of Brussels, aids or situations that companies understand are better to settle down than here for example. When we are talking about the specific case of ArcelorMittal, it is clear that the problem of ArcelorMittal, the cost of light, electricity, is very important, but it is also clear that it was nothing important when the company was made. And, apparently, it was nothing important when the Basque Government sold it, in fact making profits. I mean, that wasn't the problem with the costs of that company. On the problem of the costs of that company, or the problem that that company has today, I think we need to be clear in this forum today: that company belongs to a very strong global group, which decides which companies the workload goes to, and from a certain workload a company is profitable or is not profitable. And Arcelor's is profitable from certain tons, and from others it is no longer profitable. So, here is a first step that is obvious, that I understand that the Basque Government, which at the time participated with the BBK of that company, has some responsibility to bear with the owners of that company. And this coming out saying that the problem is that of light, man, it's fine if we compare it to others, but we also have more expensive here than in Asturias, for example. And why do we have it here more expensive than in Asturias? Because that's the question! Why is it more expensive, by your own decisions? Can these costs be adjusted to reduce, for example, as in Asturias? Those are the questions we have to ask ourselves, and those are the questions that the Basque Government would have to answer. And that is what we urge with our amendment, that the government, not only on the issue of the CWB, but on the issue of all companies... Because we have already reached an agreement between the Government of Spain and the PNV, which never agrees, which never agrees with the PNV anything... I remember that in this area an agreement was reached to lower the tariff at the time, two years ago or three years ago (I do remember that), to reduce it to 50%. That you don't remember anyone, because it's a very high-powered government, but it was done. It was done, it was remembered, it was done, and the problems of the ACB are others. I have seen a measure, one of the few measures I have seen from the Basque Government, which says that it is looking for a partner to take over the company (I have seen it in the Deia, I have not seen it in more places, but I suppose that being the Deia will be true), in case Mr Mittal leaves, or closes it, or does something. But I also suppose that in order to find a new investor partner we will have to talk to the current owner, or I do not know, because the truth is that we have asked, we have asked, as documented information, that the sales contracts be sent to the House, to see whether it is true or not that there was a possibility of buy-back, that we do not know. The workers have explained this to us, and we would like the Government to explain this to us a little bit, because we see the Government, which has met with the workers the day before yesterday for the first time and has been making statements demanding everyone, Brussels what it has to do, the Government of Spain what it has to do, everyone what it has to do, but we have not seen them, until yesterday that they have met with the workers, or that. Not even that. Therefore, we have made a generic amendment, because we understand that the problem of the CWB is not that of the CWB, it is that of all steelworks, and if we look at the loss of steel production in the Basque Country in recent years, then, listen, we are in the middle of what we were doing. And, therefore, it is not the ACB, they are all, all, and the problems are common to all. And, therefore, we will have to look for formulas, which, if they appear to exist elsewhere, can be done. And when it comes to taxation, then, well, we talk about taxation. I do not know whether tax measures should be taken, and what tax, because I am not in the government and I have not talked to the companies so that the company will tell us exactly what their problem is. I hope it's not the one they've decided, that they're taking the workload somewhere else and that's it. I hope that is not the case, because, if not, we would also be here talking about nothing when it comes to taking action or seeking solutions. Because, if the decision is to close the plant, I believe that at the moment that is the interest that the Basque Government had to have in this case: to know first-hand what the company's intentions are. Because with all the other measures that are taken, if they do not serve to keep the plant closed, then we will be staying very well with the workers – or with the working gentlemen, as an illustrious character of this country said at the time – saying things that are very well, we are all in favour of the workers, but at the time of truth it will be closed. And we can also see this in the previous pension debate, because, of course, it is one more, it is one more burden for that too, and that is why we have been telling this government for four years that it has to take steps to ensure that, first, the companies we have do not leave, and, secondly, to attract companies that create jobs. And that's what's not happening, and little by little, little by little we're losing businesses, and one year is one and another year is another, and the next year is another. And that's what it can't be. And that's what for a government, and more if it's a nationalist, I understand it should be their concern. I understand, especially if he's very nationalist and what he wants is an independent state and that everyone here... I understand you want it so everyone can live better! Look, without a job, it's complicated. And we, as we have seen, at last, that our amendment is properly reflected, urging the Basque Government to put the batteries in place at once and to start taking measures to promote the real competitiveness of our companies, that is why we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u55	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u56	Hello. Good morning, everyone. I'd like to thank Mr. Azkue for bringing this suggestion to this pleno today, because I think he'll give us a chance when the other spokesman says he's gonna give us the attitude he's given us, and a motive that's appropriate and necessary to test atara. I agree with him, too... Well, I said, thank you for bringing this, and also for the way he either has or has shown it, the arrangement which he has made possible, and I want to make one of what he has said, namely, the memory of the dead workers in March 3. To-day, it is true that we dispute a complex motion, which has two parts of a considerable amount of difference, and which, I think, are a little more or less attached to the same proposition, but both have a very special entity, and both are very important. And it is very convenient for us to express this Chamber in these terms. The first part concerns a question, as Mr Damborenea also mentioned, which is generic, while the second part relates to a question and to a particular undertaking, to a more specific paragraph. The first part, the generic part, I think it should not be necessary to discuss it here today, and it should not be necessary for two very compelling reasons both. Firstly, because this Parliament has already expressed its will on this issue, on the question of the need for a protocol to accompany companies in crisis. It has done so in a full monograph which was made fifteen months ago, precisely on the initiative of my group, and therefore we should not be here today to demand that what has already been committed or what has already been required, in political terms, to exist be fulfilled. But we are not only talking about something that is already approved and requested by this Parliament, which is the first of the reasons why we should not be here again today; it is that it is also such a crushing logic, it is such an absolute wisdom, it is such a broad ideological transversality, that it makes no sense to oppose such a question of reason. If there was a deep ideological content, if there were reasons for a discrepancy, if we were talking here about what competitive or ideological differences around the left-right axis... But here we are talking – and I already know that it is a term that is abused a lot, and that even jokes are made on social networks – but we are talking about common sense. We are talking about that, when a company has difficulties, the first one to come is the Basque Government with all its wealth of resources, to make itself available to the workers of that company to advise them, accompany them and help them as much as possible. And here Mr. Azkue has been taking a little chest out, boasting of the actions of his political party in relation to the ACB issue. I, for saving us time, am not going to say what we have done, but it is true that there are other agents who have much less resources and less responsibility than a whole government like the Basque Government and who, however, do implement these kinds of protocols. And we are humble parliamentarians, humble groups in this Parliament, as I said before, with far more limited resources, and with obviously far more limited moral legitimacy and training than that of the Basque Government. It's not normal... And, as I was telling you, we have indeed been not only in the case of ACB, that there I believe that everyone for some reason or other has been more or less where it was supposed to be: in much smaller companies, and with curls that were half a dozen at the door of the company, warming up with the barrel, burning wood, as in the old days. We've been there too. And we have been with many of these companies and in all of them we have seen a constant that was repeated, that is the situation of despair, of anguish, because they go to the street, because they go to the street and we also know under what conditions the workers of the industrial sector are going to the street and what economic situation we are living in. And at that time they urgently need answers to their questions. And I, and on more than one occasion I have already transferred the adviser, do not ask her to be able to keep open all companies that have difficulties, because there are issues that escape the question or the scope of volunteering, not everything can be fixed. But you can demand that you be with them and them at that time, and not only to slap them in the back or to feel the warmth of the institutions, which is also important at that time, but also to be advised, helped, because they are workers from different sectors who do not have to be experts and experts in economics, who do not have to master issues, as in the case of ACB, which already fully correspond to the field of geopolitics, whether we have to enter into commercial war with China or not. It's just that it doesn't have to be them and them who put those answers on the table! It must be society, institutions, and the Basque Government at the head, who advise them on these and other issues: their employment situation, the options they have, if they go to unemployment or if they do not go to unemployment, if there is training or if there is no training, if there are lines of help or if there are no lines of help, if there can be an interview with the company or not. Of all that it should not be necessary to be discussing here, but, well, I repeat this battery of arguments to see if the message finally drops and starts what, I said before, is already approved and is also of pure common sense. "En cuanto a los planes de formción specíphilos, only to mention one thing, and the chief physician commented a particular case: On the left hand, the plan of strength can be produced in the industrial area of so many jobs, and perhaps there may be difficulties in the discovery of workers with this specific preparation. It is therefore very logical, and I believe this may also be an additional part of the whole protocol, that the setting up of a part of that protocol should be articulated by specific plan for the workers of a company that is in an emergency, and also the other point, when it demands that it be registered. And we arrive... Well, I should have said, this is very fishy, because the government's position and distance are very suspicious of workers. I've been listening to the Basque government in meetings with entrepreneurs, and everything was parabens and everything was offerings, and it was all about saying, "Ask us, and we'll study whatever is possible to grant it." That is the deal the Basque Government has with entrepreneurs! And, instead, with the workers there is an absolute distance, an absolute coldness. It always intervenes late and reluctantly. And I think that's unacceptable. And the case of ACB is precisely a prime example of this issue. It is that more than forty days have passed before the Basque Government was able to join the company committee, when I believe that every social and political agent in this country has lined up practically to meet with the company committee, even if only to say "We are at your disposal". And the last of the lines of the Basque Government, which I do not say that it has not done things in other instances, but that it seems absolutely revealing to me that it is the last to meet, and that it has also had to be the workers themselves, when it has already been more than prudent, who have addressed themselves to request this meeting. It is, as I said, very revealing. We did not want to bring the issue of the ACB before because we think that priority must be given to closing ranks, closing ranks and seeking a solution above what is the party debate. That is why we did not want to bring this issue here and debate it. And I'm glad that, once you've brought... We too have tried to ensure that the proposals made in this respect are to some extent inclusive. Because I believe that there are political differences when it comes to addressing this issue, but I believe that they must be resolved in another framework and that here we must seek, as far as possible, that I do not know whether this will continue to be the case, but as far as possible, agreements always under the parameters that the absolute priority must be to ensure the continuity, the future of the company and of the jobs. In this respect, a number of issues are raised here which I believe are essential, and I think that is precisely why they will have support. And it is that the Basque Government also uses the dialogue, the capacity for dialogue, the political legitimacy and the technical and material resources that it has at its disposal to help, to help the future of the company as such, and in this transitory (hopefully transitory) situation in which we find ourselves it must address specific problems, such as possible, subcontracts and auxiliary industry. We also referred to the Left Margin in our amendment, which we have withdrawn for not overloading this motion, but obviously the oven is not for bubbles and the Left Margin is not about to close one of the few large industrial companies that we have left. We have revived these days the controversy of the tax lease, which it assumed for a long time and which is still on judicial journey, but the controversy of the tax lease, which has threatened for a long time the survival of the shipyard of La Naval; we see the situation in which ACB is in; we see that Reunited Tubes, which is another of the big companies, is also with an ERE, and we see that really the few powerful industrial companies that remain in the Left Margin are in a complicated situation. We hope – and then we will develop, because I am running out of time – that there will be a policy in which the Basque Government plays an active role, and that it will do so – which is why we have also introduced the express request – in constant contact with the workers and also with this House. We don't want to hear from a newspaper that new investors are being sought. If we are asked for discretion in matters that require discretion, of course we are going to be discreet, but we do not want things to be done this way, because, if not, confidence is broken, and that initial confidence that we were saying about the role of the Government is broken, and then we will each start to make policy and make criticisms considering ourselves freed from other commitments. And, as I said before, then later we will talk about other kinds of issues that are fundamental, such as the electricity issue, the issue of dumping, the issue above all of requiring Arcelor (Arcelor or another) to ensure the company's future. Because Arcelor gives the impression that he doesn't want to be helped. It is difficult, of course, to help those who do not want to be helped, but Arcelor is hiding, does not face, proposes nothing, does not generate trust. We don't trust Arcelor. We don't know if you're betting on Sestao or you're preparing for his exit. That is why we must demand it, and I believe that the Basque Government and this House must demand Arcelor to take a step ahead or to take a step next to it, because we cannot allow him to continue playing with the future of a factory that is obviously very important from the point of view of employment for those who work in it, but also for the whole region and for the whole country...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u57	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u58	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u59	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief. Good morning, everyone. Before they enter the content of the Moment, as those who have spoken before me have said, on March 3rd, we want to send a big hug to the wounded and their families from our group. We're all next to what's happened in this case. We act in democracy by reason of the courage of many people, and we may discuss it freely, for instance, with regard to the matters and occupations which concern our industry. And I'd like to make some allusion to what happened yesterday in the World's Opinion in Madrid. Except for a small mention of Mr. Sánchez's policy in energy, we thought very curious that there was no mention of the productive model of the state. The legislatures passed, and the Spanish state did not debate in depth their productive model or what role the industry played in it. I could say that there they, which they will see, but the absence of a firm industrial policy on the part of the state, of course, also affects Basque industry. Our agenda is completely different, once again we are demonstrating it day and day too. It is a parliamentary legislature with a lot of parliamentary activity aimed at the debate on measures to be taken to try to help businesses and workers in compromised situations, so we must try to resolve it together. Entering fully into the motion presented in this case by the Socialist Party, it is a motion, in our opinion, to understand it well, that, taking advantage of the case of ArcelorMittal and the plant of ACB of Sestao, wants to extend it to all companies in difficulty. In recent weeks we have had many agents, political parties and institutions who have had the opportunity to speak with representatives of the Arcelor plant in Sestao and with the representation of the workers and the contractors themselves. It should be noted that both management and workers have put on the table the problems they face, and that the dialogue and possible mediation is easier to draw up in this case, in the case of ArcelorMittal. There are several components, justified or not, that have led to the direction of the temporary closure of the plant, and it is no less true that, as I said before, various agents and institutions are trying to solve what is in our hands, what we can achieve. And what we can't, then, we'll try to put pressure on. City Hall of Sestao in this case, being the institution closest to the location of the plant itself, the Diputación Foral de Bizkaia, the Basque Government and the Spanish Government, each at its own pace, Europarliamentarians, political parties... Because we believe that it is not just a steel plant, but that the problem affects an entire sector. But that good discussion that has existed in Arcelor's case is not always taking place in all companies. And the Councillor, Mr Toña, has already recalled, responding to the Socialist Party's call, that there must be a favourable disposition on all sides so that the government can try to mediate and collaborate. In the first point put forward by the Socialist Party in its motion, and the rest of the amendments also suggest a similar wording, they do in fact require that there be a special protocol on workers from companies in difficulty, which (attention) "includes permanent information to workers' representatives on the situation of the company". On the one hand, companies in difficulty. We suggest that, unfortunately, there are many, and also with different types of difficulties; the sample is very broad and varied. How are we going to force companies to give the government information if they do not want to? The scope of the enterprise is a private sphere, and collective bargaining and labour relations are private areas of the business and social parties. Public intervention takes place in specific cases, such as an employment regulation file, and is not only protocolised, but is fully bound by the relevant legislation. There are also mediation procedures aimed at promoting dialogue and communication between the parties, including arbitration procedures for the resolution of disputes, but which are not empowered by the Administration, but which depend on the will of the parties in the management of these areas of industrial relations. Therefore, public intervention is not only protocolized: it is strictly regulated and subject to the will of the parties. The institutions may not replace either the business or the social part in terms of information or any aspect of labour relations, beyond what the legislation determines or beyond what the parties agree in each case. Only companies that advertise, for example, employment regulation files are obliged to provide data on their situation, but in principle they do so in order to proceed from the file itself. It must be the will of the parties to cooperate, mediate and provide solutions from the Government or other institutions. And that's what the Basque government is about. I believe that the Councillor, Mr Toña, was very clear: the Government attends and must attend on a case-by-case basis, because each case is a world, and they should not raise it in a protocol way, because, first, we would force the Government to do something that it cannot do legally, and, second, because it could even be counterproductive if the protocol did not conform to the specific case of that company. So, it's so important... No, I'm sorry, I'm going to get into the second point now, where you're talking about training, where you're asking for specific training plans. First, it is as important to incorporate in a public training plan of Lanbide – so that there are no misunderstandings, remember it, really –, necessary and important to incorporate in a public training plan, as can be those of Lanbide, a natural person who can be an electrician who is in an employment regulation file, of a contract of the Arcelor-Sestao plant, as to another electrician who has been unemployed in a company of a workshop of only five workers. I believe that we fully agree on that, and that there should be no discrimination whatsoever. Employment plans must therefore be open, they are indeed open, because they must be so. Not specific for a single person. But it is also that, by not referring only to ArcelorMittal but to all the workers who are in an employment regulation file, the wording can create another problem, in our opinion: it points out in the second part that it will be "while also articulated formulas of feasibility that recover the activity of the company concerned". That is to say, we have the case of the workers at the Sestao plant, who are currently in an ERE, and, above which they are charging that ERE, until 31 December, we are going to discriminate positively against other unemployed people who are in a precarious situation too and who are not even charging anything. We can't do that kind of discrimination. We cannot make ad hoc plans for workers who are in a bad situation, because their company is in an employment regulation file, who are also waiting for the plant to reopen. Such discrimination cannot be made a public institution. Since Lanbide's training itineraries are and must be opened, and we must work to ensure that all unemployed people or dossiers use them, we raise the fact that we have raised in our own amendment, certificates of professionalism that can be complementary to training, and very useful in their professional development. It is the suggestion we put forward in our own amendment, which speaks of effective intervention, with the joint action between Lanbide and the Department of Education, in order to grant workers the corresponding certificate of professionalism, that is, once they pass the tests of the device of recognition of competition, because this was also agreed at the tripartite dialogue table in a unanimous manner. And, well, in our case, our amendment concludes with a third point which they have taken up in their compromise amendment, which concerns energy efficiency and concrete and responsible proposals and alternatives, in order to reduce the gap in energy prices, calling on both the Government of the State and the European Commission to make an urgent commitment in this regard. We must be aware of the unique and particular response that must be given to each of the companies and of the situation in which each of the companies is located. This Government is acting, acting in each of the situations, in the sense and with the philosophy that was reflected in that motion for a resolution that was adopted in November 2014. Motion for a resolution in which this parliamentary group voted against, on the same criteria, for the same reasons that I am putting before you here today. There are many actions carried out by the Basque Government in coordination with the representation of workers as well as the management of the companies themselves, in order to provide information on possible public actions. We believe that Arcelor's plant has a future, it's technologically sustainable, it has its own staff and a well-formed auxiliary, and it should be resuming its march before then. We are working on this and the other institutions that accompany us. And if this motion is really addressed to Arcelor's case, let's put our efforts where they belong. Mediation yes, if the parties want and allow; certifications of professionalism and training, and demand for more homogeneous energy price policies in the European Union. Among other things, we ask from this group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Corles. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Misto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u62	Thank you, President. Only to say that I will vote in favour of the compromise that has finally been presented to us and signed. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u63	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answering shift, representative of Social Party. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u64	I think there are times, unfortunately, when we are obliged to say things that we do not believe. The truth, Mrs Corrales, has appealed EH Bildu's colleague to the reasons for the protocol, and I will not insist. I believe that it is an explanation exclusively of common sense, and what I have read and what I have provided for this protocol to be really understood and carried out is so clear, and so much need even for compromise with the workers, that it is difficult to understand that it cannot be accepted. In any case, two questions. Specific training has always been (industrial plans..., let's remember the whole story), specific training has always been in these sectors, and more so when they are in crisis. There's been talk about yesterday. I believe that yesterday is a compromise step, which the candidate for President of the Government, Sánchez, did yesterday. Because in the investiture talking about a problem..., that actually between the PNV and we can talk about it and we have talked about it, but talking about the investiture of a substantial part, which is the subject of possible energy savings, is directly addressed not only to ArcelorMittal, but to the Basque steel industry as a whole. I believe that these issues must always be adopted positively. I don't know if there are contradictions, it was said in the press today. I have heard Mr Soria raise the issue of the need to act with anti-dumping measures against China. I've heard it personally. I have heard you say that how easy it is for the United States to put anti-dumping measures that can reach $200 per tonne of steel, and how difficult it is to get this measure in the European Union to comply with a very much less than €16 plan. However, what I do agree with is that, if the news that appears today in the press regarding relying on the government's functionality with regard to energy savings... If I ask the People's Party, the People's Group, to urge Mr Soria, please, that functionality is not an obstacle in order to be able to act on the reduction of energy measures. We are not facing an exclusively Basque problem, it is true; we are not facing an exclusively Spanish problem, it is true. We are faced with the serious bet on something very, very key, and it is the survival or not of a part of Europe's most important industry, the steel industry. That is true, this is the biggest problem, and that is why action must be taken in the European Union. And the European Union has to adopt, implement the measures it adopted in 2013 on industrial policy and steel. It's not that there's nothing, and that's where we should push everyone, and everyone at once. I believe that globalisation is there and requires regulation, and what we cannot afford is for a globalization based exclusively on the liberal economy to make every effort pay for the workers, whether Chinese or Basque. Hence the need for Europe and the need for Europe to be more proactive; hence, it is our guarantee against globalisation. But in the meantime (and in the meantime, what?) We must act. If the central government has no industrial policy, let us do ours, let us define it and let us do it, because we cannot say and rely on saying that while others do not either. That would be absurd. I believe that we all have to move towards this industrial policy and this increasingly protective measure to those who are more unprotected in this globalisation, and it is in view of the nature of the companies that they have adopted. And before that, new answers, Mr. Toña, really new answers. And the new answers have to be those, commitment to them. We are committed to Arcelor's workers and to all steel workers in Euskadi. We are convinced that you too. Let us take steps to make them feel that protection is true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u65	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u66	Thank you very much, Madam President. I have no doubt that Arcelor's plant is profitable and viable, if, as the workers themselves said, they are able to put a coil in Germany cheaper than those made in Germany. So, that's not the problem. The problem is obvious that it is another. And it is also clear, and that is why Mrs Corrales is right, that it is the companies that have to take the necessary measures and, if necessary, ask the governments for the necessary aid to be able, for example, to sell these coils in Germany, which is one of the problems we have. And, Mr. Azkue, very briefly. That is to say, Mr Soria is obviously in office, which does not mean that he is not in the European Union, as he did last Monday, where it is appropriate, at the European Competitiveness Council, for anti-dumping measures to be adopted. Now, don't ask me, if we're talking here about changing the laws that regulate the electricity sector or the laws that regulate electricity taxes... Well, a functioning government has no legislative capacity or initiative. Now, if you convinced your party in Madrid to reach the agreement that they should have reached in December, and we could have had a government running since January... All these measures could already be in place. So I ask you to make an effort to talk to your secretary general and reach an agreement with the People's Party so that you can have a government that works and defends the interests of everyone, including the workers of the ACB.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u67	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. From EH, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u68	Well, Mrs. Corrales, the writer Stendhal said that to get inspired and take the pulse and style he wanted to take, he read, before writing, some pages of the Civil Code, because there he took, let's say, the cold tone of his hyperrealistic narrative. I do not know what you have read, but you have met, and I know, with ACB workers, I do not know if from other factories or industries in danger, but these people, apart from being all regulated and protocolized by the ERE, have other kinds of needs and demands. From the human point of view they have a need for clothing, but from the technical point of view they have a need for someone to go and advise them of all the steps that must be taken, because the world is coming upon them. And it is not safe to say that the term "companies in difficulty" is not very precise. That can be arranged. We all know that we're not talking about a company that's losing money on time or having a strike... No, companies in difficulty whose viability is compromised and there is evidence that such viability is compromised. That is where the Basque Government has to go, as I said, with a wide range of resources at its disposal to advise, to be with them, to give them warmth, yes, but also to give them concrete solutions and answers to the questions they have, to the extent possible. We're not asking for the impossible. We are calling for all that responsibility to be exercised in the field as far as possible. But, as I said in the first speech, I am now practically clear about the need for this protocol, firstly because it is already approved by this House, and secondly because it is of an elementary common sense. And I am going to focus on the issue of the CWB which has given me no time to deal with in depth in the previous intervention. It is essential to start a commitment to reopen Arcelor, at least partially. The workers are asking and putting on the table the possibility of opening not to three shifts, not to full production, but of reopening the factory, even if in a partial way, because that is to put a sort of standing on the door that wants to close, so that that door is kept open, so that the factory continues to produce, so that the workers do not seek their future job, if they have another possibility, outside of ACB, so that the pace of production is not lost, so that the customers are not lost, so that orders and workload that was already committed can be met, so that the factory does not lose its credibility before the customers by failing to supply products that other factories will not be able to supply them. And, therefore, we believe that this is the first line of intervention: reopening as soon as possible. All the negotiations and all the offers and all the possibilities that are put on the table in front of Arcelor company have to be matched by an explicit commitment to the future of the Arcelor plant. All the possibilities that are explored and that must be explored (to grant some kind of benefit, tax rebate, bonus for the production system) must go as counter-performance to an express commitment to the future of the plant. Some cannot be allowed to take advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid to order tax rebates or in the electricity price in a general way. It has to be a very specific and very well defined action, so that it affects those who have to affect, helps those who have to help, and, as I said, has as counter-performance the commitment to the future of the plant. Because the Arcelor de Sestao plant has difficulties because of its own production system, which is different from that of the whole steel industry, but also has advantages, and those advantages are those that have to be put in value. We were told by the workers of a concept that is socially little known, but it is that of recycled steel: there they are manufacturing and they are putting back on the market a steel that is already used. It is true that to some extent it can be understood as a steel recycling plant, and it is also true that its emissions and environmental impact are much smaller than that of the whole steel industry. There is a whole space in which you can act and improve precisely those good environmental practices, as proposed in the initial motion, through white certificates, but also exploring other kinds of complementary possibilities. Because we are supposed to want to produce things in a more ecological way, and we know that the heavy industry in general, and the steel industry in particular, is an energy-intensive industry, it is an industry that does not have a zero cost from an environmental point of view. But it is true that, in a comparison between the form of making steel that has ACB and the form of making steel that has integral steel, there are immense advantages in favour of ACB. And that has to be put into value. Therefore, we want a compromise and we want Arcelor to be pressured, not to wash his hands; to press Arcelor and, as he said before, if Arcelor is not able to take a step ahead, to take a step next door. Because Ezkerraldea and this country need an open ACB, because of its impact on employment, on the gross domestic product, and because it is also a model and a system of doing things we believe in and for which we have to bet. I have sometimes told the workers that this country and the industrial model of this future country cannot be doing the same as others do. Either we do new things, or we always do things in a new way. What we can't do is always do things the way we always do. ACB was an example of how in a sector that is itself mature and is a traditional sector, such as that of the steel industry, technological innovations can be provided with advantages, in this case from an environmental point of view and also because of their versatility in other industrial areas.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u69	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u70	If that model we want to bet on comes down to us, this country is on the wrong track in the industrial sphere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u71	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u72	Thank you again, Mr. President. Mr Damborenea, I hope you don't bother or get mad at me for making this allusion that I am going to make to you, but from our group we understand and applaud what you said to the President-in-Office when you said "It's OK" – in other words – "Corruption". In addition, we saw how Mr Rajoy corresponded to you, so we understand that you were in very good tune, so you should have taken advantage of that magnificent occasion – which you missed for us – for giving Mr Rajoy that text of accession that you have presented today to this motion that the Socialist Party has tabled: measures to lower and modify the price of energy taxes. That's what you should have done the other day and that, well, it was a shame that you missed that occasion, with that good tune you showed us. In this case, with regard to the compromise amendment signed by the Socialist Party and EH Bildu, on the first and second points, on the protocol and training, I do not want to repeat myself, but we believe that it is sensible not to protocolize for all companies, but to study and inform and help and mediate in each case, in each of the situations in which companies can be found in bad situations. That is what we find common sense. Therefore, a general protocol does not consider it effective, as we do not consider it effective, and that is why we voted against it in November 2014. As far as training is concerned, I repeat to you, Mr Azkue, training for all. I am a Councillor of Employment and Training in the City of Sestao and promote training for all enterprises equally, for all workers equally, not only for those in an ERE, but for all workers equally. I have noted positively what Mr Sánchez said yesterday, and I thank him for recognizing it. The only thing I have said is that only the industrial issue was mentioned in his speech. No more. I have said that for years in this community, in Euskadi, we have been talking about and working on industrial matters, unlike what we see happening in the state. We are therefore in agreement with you and your parliamentary group. But what we were saying: a protocol cannot be legally applied if a company decides not to have the government itself. And this is also addressed to Mr. Casanova. We believe that either the business side and the trade union side or the workers' side are either in favour of both sides, or this government cannot effectively broker. Training, for all alike. And I would, although it is still your common sense to protocol the actions that the Government has to carry out equally to all companies, but we believe that the sensible thing is that it is each one individually. Although it would be desirable for us all to go to one in this debate and with the text that is going to be adopted today, because I believe that we owe ourselves to the workers, we owe ourselves to the businesses of Euskadi, because we really have to recognize that they are making real efforts to make themselves heard, to make themselves heard, and we have to work with them and try to put pressure on what is not in our hands and in the hands of other institutions. Therefore, our sincere encouragement to all the workers of the Arcelor-Sestao plant, as well as to the workers of the auxiliary companies. And I will simply ask from here whether we are allowed to vote for points on the compromise amendment. We shall now proceed to vote in favour of points 1 and 2, and we shall vote in favour of points 3 and 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Corles. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to put it first to the vote to add the Euscal Potula Company's correction to the Basque Potion Group. [[Berber]] Yes, but there's an addition amendment! First the add-on vote, then the transactional vote. Bai, Damborenea...?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u74	Yes, we understand it withdrawn, if it was subsumed in the transactional text.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u75	Retired? Do you understand that she's retired? Okay. Now, we're going to vote for the Basque Socialists and the US Collectors. No points requested. Is there a problem? No? No? Yes or no? No. Then we vote first and second points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 47; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u76	So the first and second points are accepted. After that, we'll vote for three and four points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 72; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u77	One mouth has been accepted three and four points. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced by María Isabel Céla Déguez by Euska Sociialists, the class student of the Basque Schools. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Celaá, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. It is not possible to combat what is not known. The last specific study on equal treatment or school harassment in Basque classrooms was presented in 2012, and the previous one was in 2009. We are in 2016, and it is necessary to carry out another specific comparative study that allows us to know what is the real situation of mistreatment between equals in our schools and what has been the evolution. We actually know the data that Save the Children gives us: it tells us that more than 6,000 Basque students suffer physical assaults routinely in schools, and it tells us that six out of every hundred students in Compulsory Secondary Education are victims of school harassment, and 8% say they are beaten by peers. Undoubtedly, ladies and gentlemen, a personal drama of great magnitude and to which we must react. Because, ladies and gentlemen, for a boy, a girl, a young man, a teenager, school is almost his entire universe. That is precisely where he needs to feel included, understood, valued, not because he is a son or daughter, as in the womb of a family, but because he is, because he is her, by his own strength. That is why it is so important that the school attends to emotional education and intellectual education, and seeks the balance of the person. That is why it is so important and we need to pay attention to what it means to be a victim of bullying, a victim that must be educated to stop it; to be a victim in bullying, a person who is also a victim in the sense that he actually has very low self-esteem and that he must be educated to stop being so; those silent witnesses, to stop being silent, and those people who, in fact, not being a witness, are part of the community (parents, mothers, teachers, psychologists). The whole community matters. That is why, concerned, generally concerned about the non-controversial response to the Government's inquiry on 19 February, we have brought this motion here. Among other reasons, because it was the Education Commission itself that in 2007 asked the Basque Government to carry out periodic evaluations, periodic investigations on school abuse, and that was why the 2008 and 2009 surveys and 2012 surveys were conducted. It is not necessary, ladies and gentlemen – and in this I agree with the answer given by the Government – to carry out this assessment year by year, but it is necessary, ladies and gentlemen – and this is the difference – to do it periodically and to make a specific comparative study, which measures us, which can compare levels and which can compare indicators. That is why, after 2012, in which we already observed worrying behaviors, which widened as they were transmitted by the networks, we requested a specific study of measurement, of research, on school abuse in our schools. And that is why, ladies and gentlemen, this study that we want measures not only the overall rate of abuse between equals and the specific rate corresponding to each of the levels, but also the analysis of the type of abuse at each of the levels investigated, the circumstances, the environment, the victim, the victim, the attitude of the student to the abuse, the specific analysis of the situation of cyberbullying, the index, the circumstances, the most frequent behaviors, and the intervention of the school. That is, issues that we have analysed in previous studies and which serve us to measure evolution. I have to say, ladies and gentlemen – and that is why I will be extraordinarily brief – that fortunately, although it has cost us, the government and we have cost us, Leixuri Arrizabalaga's clearly dialogueal attitude has allowed us, in extremis (it would be nine o'clock at night), to reach an agreement. I would therefore like to highlight this, and above all I would like to highlight all of your ladies and gentlemen who have understood the importance of the subject and who have allowed us to actually bring today a non-law proposal, a motion which you request is a specific analysis (specific analysis) of the fifth and sixth primary and four secondary courses, which can actually be completed with those data that have been collected in the diagnostic assessments (the one of 2013 and the one of 2015), and which is also presented to the Education Commission. Obviously, the aim cannot be other than to strengthen and promote prevention and detection measures in order to achieve the inclusive school in which we all believe and want to have. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u80	Ladies of Parliament, members of the legislature, good noon. First of all, I'd like to make an idea clear. That the subject we're discussing isn't the problem of the school, but that it's the problem of all of us...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u81	Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u82	... and that it's the problem of society, of a whole society. In society, is violence natural to people? Is Violence in people natural or cultureal? History is, if we think that it's natural to people, whether we can handle violence, violence. And if we think that society has a basis for it, whether it is culture, whether we are able from the root to change this culture, and to establish the measures and policy for it. It is natural, in everyday, that every moment is there; that by various expressions violence appears in different degrees. Sometimes it's physical violence, sometimes it's verbal, sometimes sexist, racist, social, social harassment... And there's no need to go far. In this law, too, there is constant violence in the family. We're not often conscious, but it's there, implicit or explicitly. And even in the media, what is it that sells in media? Blood, war, suffering of victims, attacks, murders... That's the model we're building. And history is that school is also part of society, that school is a reflection of society, and that it is not safe. And that even at school, sometimes in very crude and serious expressions. It's bad treatment among small-year-old classmates, bad verbal deals, physical, sexual relations, things, social nets... And we're very clear that we can't accept any of them. None. And that no ill treatment could be made, the person, the education model for the preparation of the foster-born children. It's the education model. It's the integral. In order to prepare for the children who will be ripe in the future, to prepare them, to change the violent culture of our modern society. To prepare, to be sound-minded, to manage this violence, to acquire the strategy of managing conflict-no one to be attacked, no one to be humiliated, and to be humiliated because of the original, etc., etc., etc., etc., and so on. And all this begins from the respect of every one's self, and begins with respect for others (a long exercise of self-love, empathy, emotional management, etc.). And this is not only solved by habits of communion, and much less by security force, by carrying them to school, to study, and giving them form. And not even in such situations (gentinity... ) do not repair by examining and investigating. He's asking for the implication of a whole society. It requires correponsibility and initiative. What can't be done is when we have a problem in society, a problem in school. That we have a problem with violence? School. I don't know what's wrong with us. The school will fix it. No. The school can't take everything on its own, and what school needs is formization, the most trained teachers, resources, etc., etc. What we need is the projection attitude of the Board of Education to be the most developed teachers, who will be involved with the integrated education of students, to avoid all violent behavior, which will have means of detection, and will be able to do so. But we need resources for that, and today we're short of resources, personal and economic resources, because everything can't be based on every one's will and professionalism. And that must be system-based and implemented at school, and we still find ourselves far away. We have guides, we have protocols, but how many of them do strategy work to face all of this? How often do they work on a solid project of education model, worth, empathy, etc., and so on? The greatest care of this part of the world is to be seen in the company, but do they arrive? Is that enough? It seems to us that this must be in the very school itself with a strong education project and the most trained teachers. What we need, as I have said, is that each school should be able to construct its education project in an integral way, to develop healthy relationships, concepts, strategys, but that with all the members of the community who form the unit of education, not only with children or students, but with parents, teachers, and so on. And we have a great deal to do, and in this project everything must be connected (the difference of choice among people), because we're talking about it all when we're talking about violence. And besides that, if we do all this right, we have concrete projects or concrete programs, and if we have time to get ahead of them, we're better. And therefore we have sought to make force in our corrections in particular things, because we are often in general, because we are left either in protocol or in guides; but we need accuracy, and we need precise measures to carry forward these protocols and guides, and we have tried to force them. We wanted to force the preventives and the means of strengthening and promotements which are used in schools, and when the Board of Education leads to these resources and forces in the formation of professionals. But this formation must be devoted to the professionals of education, and not to the professionals of other areas. It is of no use to impose on this security forces, which are the principal expression of violence, is contradictory. We need sense here, and we feel we have a way to improve ourselves. We have also placed upon the table, where there are very interesting projects among the nations, which have been obtained in educational institutions, to lower the degree of violence in high rates of education, to consider those projects also, and to place the pilots of projects in motion; for example, the Kiva method used in Finland, which has been used, and which has been used, and which is already in use. In other countries they have also shown that it seems to produce very good results, each must adapt it to his own country, adapting it to the characteristics of his society. So it's okay, right? It is well to discuss investigations, examinations, evaluations, they are necessary, but what we need here is Proactivity, position, and what we need is already implemented for our schools by specific forms and enterprises and measures. That is what we need, and, as I said at first, an idea being very clear in the mind: this is not the school, it is the problem of a whole society, it is the business of all, and we must all solve the problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u84	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. I am in a hurry to say this, it is not going to be the case that we are also responsible for bullying, but it is true that as early as 2007 we brought a non-legislative proposal to this Parliament, as Mrs Celaá reminded us, a non-legislative proposal which tried to warn about what was going on in the classroom and tried to put on the table a concern about bullying and bullying at school. On that occasion we agreed, in that presentation of a non-law proposal, with the Socialists, and, as Mrs Celaá said, it was indeed approved to ask the Government for a number of actions in this regard. On that occasion we echoed various reports, in particular the Cisneros report, which was the most important of the media at the time, in the legislature to which we refer, but which was followed by others. For example, an Ararteko report that blew up the alarms, and many media focused on this issue that is of enormous concern to Basque families. In that debate, we asked the Government to prepare a status report, to know the reality of bullying and bullying in our community, and that the Basque Parliament should be informed every year about the incidences, which has certainly not been achieved in recent years. Since 2012, we have had no reference. Today, as at that time, we have new reports. The report echoed in recent weeks by the Basque media and by Spain as a whole refers to Save the Children, where he recalled that not only has the situation not improved, but 6,000 Basque pupils are physically assaulted regularly in schools, that 6% of students in Basque schools are victims of bullying, and that we are not talking about a child's play, but that it is violence that cannot be justified in any case, and that needs and we must demand urgent measures to prevent this suffering of minors, which is indeed proven to leave behind sequelae and that in some cases even can lead to suicide. The results of this study reveal that 6.3% of adolescents acknowledge that they have suffered school violence in the last two months (the survey was conducted last year, 2015), and almost 5% are victims of insults, humiliations, and also through social networks. This study includes significant data. And it is not a minor study; it is a study in which more than 20,000 students have participated, in the case of Euskadi about 2,200. It can then lead us to the conclusion that we are indeed faced with a proven problem, on which the Department of Education must indeed take action and move forward in the exercise of actions that are effective. 3.5% of Basque high school students acknowledged that they harassed some of their peers, and two out of every 100 confessed that they were taught with a minor at their educational center also through social networks, which is known as cyberbullying. With this data on the table, as I told you, we must reflect on the gravity of the problem and the need to put in place means to tackle it. There's been talk of protocols. Indeed, we still need protocols to enable the centres to act quickly and effectively. But, of course, it is not only worth putting us in the demonstrations, or ties when the day of bullying or harassment between equals arrives, or when it comes to child abuse by teachers. When we have a problem, we need the problem to be addressed and the department to respond quickly to that problem. What we hope is that this compromise amendment signed by the groups with which we support the Government, which we will be voting in favour, will be a positive way for the Department of Education to make the means available to teachers, educators and public institutions, so that it can effectively prevent school harassment and combat bullying at all stages of our education system in a much more effective way. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u85	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Miss... It's your word, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u86	Thank you, President. I share what is included in that transaction and will therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians. Lady Arriega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u88	Thank you, Chief. Chief department, congressmen, good noon to everyone. Finally, we're taking steps to destroy the school revolt rather than study it. Very positive. "Yo a eso no juego; Algalying and ciberbuting's La Infuncia report has been discussed in several cases during the last few weeks of this legislature, and today at noon. As this report says, these two are forms of violence against children. It's not a new phenomenon in the schools of education, it's a situation that's been going on for a long time. This pursuit is not only given in the educational regions. Yet there are many times to be seen in this sphere, or to have right effects in it. The school isn't the only operator. It's not the only area where this violence is given, like I said. On the contrary, the school and education area may be part of the solution, they may be the key to this kind of violence. The generations of today, too, are, in a digital medium, born and familiar users, and these common school-makings have to be added a new one-that is to say, the so-called cybblyning. These digital media are necessary, necessary, interaction, and study, but also very dangerous because of the numerous and extensive relations which arise from them. According to the report by Save the Childen, there have been victims of 5%,3 occasional persecution and 1% of the most traditionally. We're one of the lowest percentages in the state, one of Navarro and a singer. Between the victims of Cyberhabage, 3,6 times and 0.9% of the usual. In this, too, among the lowest percentages. Even if it's our lowest percentage of the school business, we're very worried about this situation. The Board of Education and I'm so worried. We have therefore long laboured to avoid this state. As the chairman of the field said in the February 19th control meeting, there was no tolerance in the presence of the persecution between his classmates. It's not a game to play, it's not children's games. According to studies and research, most of the ill-treatment of students (problems of harassment, assaults...) originates in inequality and sexism. This is one of the reasons why the Berritzeguns in many schools and their cohabitation observatories are working from the projects of co-education and prevention of violence. They are not one, but many of the means that have been put in place since the Government. In 2013, the Department of Education launched the Master Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Gender-Based Violence in the Education System, to strengthen and promote prevention and detection measures implemented in different centres and to ensure the training of people in the education community. The teacher responsible for co-education of the centres is being trained at the district seminars. There are currently some three hundred participating centres. The cloisters have the possibility to develop a ten-hour training module, in some centers they are already doing so, and the next course is expected to be done quite massively. And persons representing the equality of the bodies of maximum representation have had and have the option of participating in training courses. These centres are developing projects for the co-education and prevention of gender-based violence. They have started with small diagnoses, and each has decided on what aspects to work to make their centre more co-educational and prevent and deal with gender-based violence. The centres in future courses will have to review their coexistence projects and integrate a gender perspective, as stated in the Master Plan for Co-education and Prevention of Gender Violence, for guidance. We have 2020 new educations on the table, too. Even within the frame of New York 2020 plans the pedagogical education model against violence is clearly reflected. Both in the disciplinary skills that Heziberri collects and in the transversal, as can be the competence to learn to live together, the competence to learn to do, the competence to learn to think, the competence to do for one, the personal autonomy, to do and to undertake, the verbal, nonverbal, the digital... Balore guzti horiek ezartzen ditu Heziberri 2020k modu integral batan. Hau da, all competencies for all people with autonomy from each center, but participating in the whole center. It is not only worth participating in mathematics and language and not doing so in science. No, they all have to do it together, all of them. That is why we would like to note that comprehensive educational projects that include values are already being implemented through the different competences I have mentioned, and will be extended during the development of Heziberri 2020. Values and management of emotions indispensable for building a society free from abuse. The Education Administration has always sought to make the necessary material resources and assistance available to it. Thus, in the course of 2004-2005, the guide for action was created at the educational centres of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi. This guide determines the steps to be taken in cases where a potential situation of school harassment is detected or known. A guide that certainly serves as a great help to teachers and management teams in addressing this complex problem. The guide has been updated regularly in 2007 and 2011 to adapt to new times and needs. In November 2015, the Basque Government carried out a new update, taking into account the suggestions and contributions of the centres, the various services of the Education Administration and other institutions, as well as the information derived from the research and studies carried out. This guide, with the work of the educational institutions and the monitoring and intervention of the Education Inspectorate in this field, is an essential element in view of the maximum zero tolerance to school harassment among equals that must prevail in all the institutions. It is also worth highlighting, in our view, the agreement signed between the Department of Security and the Department of Education in 2013, deepening cordially in preventive actions in the face of various situations such as bullying, cyberbullying, drugs, dangers on the internet, incivic behaviors or organized youth groups. The reception of these activities has been good, as can be seen at the follow-up meeting of the Convention. Therefore, as Mrs Ubera has rightly said during her speech, this is a problem not only in the educational sphere but also in society as a whole. We therefore welcome the cooperation between different departments and each one of them can contribute as far as it is concerned. I won't go in now to talk about KiV, because I won't have time. Yeah, I'd like to discuss some things around ISEI-IVEI. One of the prioritys of the ISEI-IVEI is to prevent and anticipate the cases of possible education. 12% of all of his activities are activities about school harassment. The continuation of the inspection and taking of the hand is constant. It's embedded in the visual management plan that includes the school revolt and the running actions for the proper evaluation and tracking procedure. There is a group of schools that unite every month, and they care to form the rest of the theatres. Therefore, continuous follow-up and intervention is carried out by the inspection, which helps us to know the possible cases quickly and take the necessary measures immediately. Until now, school harassment has been investigated in two different ways by ISEI-IVEI. First, through sample studies in eighty-four fifth and sixth primary education centres, and eighty-eight first, second, third and fourth compulsory secondary education centres conducted in 2005, 2008, 2009 and 2012. A census study was then carried out in all educational institutions in the Basque Country, in Primary Education Room and in ESO's second in the 2013 and 2015 diagnostic evaluations. Both studies show us different information. The first studies show information relating to six school courses but representative only at the level of Euskadi. It is not representative at the centre level or at the level of the educational model and centre ownership, although it does provide an overview of the evaluation of the overall ill-treatment rate across the system for six school courses. The second study makes it possible to evaluate the overall rate of abuse, the types of abuse and the conduct of abuse not only at the level of the whole system, but also by strata (ISEC) and even at the level of educational institutions. This second guide makes it possible to identify which educational establishments show the highest and lowest rates of abuse between 2013 and 2015, and to analyse whether developments in these centres have improved or worsened, and to propose the necessary corrective measures. We therefore welcome the agreement adopted today between the Socialist Group, EH Bildu and our group – and it seems that in the end it will be unanimously supported by all the groups in the Chamber – as we believe that it will complete and reinforce all the efforts being made from the department and the educational community in order to eliminate school harassment. Just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. We're going over to the answering shift. Someone wants to participate in the reaction shift... ? No? Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u90	Thus, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal of the parliamentary assemblies, as it were, of confession and observation to the victims of March 3rd. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Azuga, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u91	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, good afternoon to all. And welcome, also, to the organization of the 3rd victims and the other helpers who are with us. On January 30th, 1972, the British army killed 14 people, wounded tens in Derry, North Ireland, known as Bloody Sunday. These people were being mobilized for civil rights, part of a demonstration. 38 years later, the prime minister of Britain, David Cameron, made an institutional statement. He confessed that the attack was unforgivable, and said, "Some of the members of the army did wrong, but the government has an interest in these actions, and I apologize for the government." Bloody Sunday's victims, after hearing this statement, said the waiting for confession was over and considered that it was the historical day for Derry. On the third of March 1976 thousands of peaceful workers were forming a peaceful gathering in the church of San Francisco near Zamaga, for worthy conditions of work, for the rights of workers, for the sake of democracy and freedom. Armed police fired tear gasers and killed Pedro María Martínz Ocio, Francisco Aznar, Romuldo Barrso, José Castillo and Bivenida Perea, over 150 more people. After this he killed two other policemen, one in the Wilder (Vicente Antón), and also in Tarragona (Juuan Gabriel Rodrigo). 40 years later, no one in the Spanish government has confessed anything to them, the Spanish Government has not taken care of themselves. The Spanish Government, who is descended from the government of the present day, has not observed them; These victims are still waiting for a statement like this. As yet, nothing but Derry, the historical day of the reconnaissance has come to Gasteize. It's not Derry, but Spanish Government isn't British. On March 3, 1976, forty years ago today, a massacre, a massacre, was perpetrated on a day like today in Gasteiz. The streets were stained with blood, the bells were ringed to death, as Lluís Llach sang later. It was an act of State terrorism; however, its victims are not so considered. It was an act of State terrorism; however, curiously, there are no State terrorists persecuted, tried or punished. There was a murder with murderers but no killers. However, those perpetrators were known, or at least it was easy to follow their lead. The armed policemen, who fired more than 2,000 bullets, who fired tear gas, were led by Jesús Quintana Saracibar, captain of the XI General Reserve Company of Miranda de Ebro and the garrison company of Gasteiz. The authors are also those who gave the orders, specifically the civil governor, Rafael Landín. Orders broadcast by radio, giving orders to act and in which you can hear: "Go for them. Dispose of the church anyway. Gaseize the church." These radio broadcasts also hear how they were congratulated on their duty: "Good service. We have contributed to the greatest beating in history. There's been a massacre here." Words that in these transmissions recognized the facts and act as true self-incriminating testimonies. There were also other responsible, political responsible, and ultimately responsible for that massacre. And they are also known, they have names: Rodolfo Martín Villa, Minister of Trade Union Relations, and Manuel Fraga Iribarne, Minister of Government. All of them, the entire chain of command, the entire scale of responsibility, from the first armed police to the last political leader, are today, forty years later, absolutely unpunished. The Spanish Justice Administration has looked on the other side for a long time under the protection or, perhaps, of the Amnistic Law. Facts have never been investigated, responsibilities have never been solved, responsible persons have never been judged, and their cares have never been solved or condemned. In like manner, as to the confession and regeneration given by public administrations, these persons have not received the same treatment which has been granted to other victims, being excluded from a category of secondary victims. Contrary, though the recommendations of the United Nations, as so many international institutions say, all the victims have a right to establish truth and to observe justice, which is exactly the same right. This parliament has already taken an engagement to observe the victims of March 3rd. In point of fact, ten years ago, in March 2006, the Parliament agreed to an institutional statement "to clear up the public, which required that victims should be justified, and that the responsibilities of the matter should be solved." In addition, the same treatment which the law of solidarity with the victims of terrorism has obtained was to be given to the 3nd of March, "by encouraging and accepting personal changes required for that purpose." Unfortunately, we can conclude that 10 years later, the most obvious institutional expression of good will has never been fulfilled. On the contrary, these victims and their relations have been obliged to appeal to other means of obtaining truth and justice, in order that the Spanish justice, which the Spanish administration of the Spanish Justice, will not solve and solve. The Spanish Government has also denied the protection granted to them in international institutions, the confession granted to them. On account of this, we thought that the time had come for us to pass through the words, and today, on the fortyth anniversary, we confirmed the engagement to take more steps. That is why we are bringing this debate today, and because we believe that the declaration adopted in 2006 has become obsolete and short on its objectives. Today no one seems to doubt that Spanish justice should investigate, prosecute, condemn the offenders. On the contrary, we find that it has been repeated in the Amnesty Law, in the final point law, in order not to do so. Today, no one seems to doubt that the facts constitute crimes against humanity, and therefore imprescriptible. On the contrary, it has had to be a court in Argentina, certainly with more sensitivity, with more proximity and with more democratic feeling, who has acted. Today, no one seems to doubt that the Spanish Government, both the current one and all the previous ones, are direct successors to that Franco regime with which there was no rupture, and therefore ultimately responsible in continuity. On the contrary, forty years later the Spanish Government denies recognition, denies its responsibilities, but, even more so, it operates by granting the same impunity as that other Franco regime which happens and continues to do so. Today the Spanish Government is preventing extradition, and thereby protecting criminals. Today, no one seems to doubt that these victims have the right to recognition, reparation and to be guaranteed that such a thing will never happen again. On the contrary, these victims have received such reparation in a quality and much less than other victims. Today, no one seems to doubt that neither those nor any other victim should suffer the double victimization of finding no truth, justice or reparation. On the contrary, the victims of 3 March see themselves under the obligation to continue to mobilize, they see themselves under the obligation to continue fighting for their rights. Today no one seems to doubt that the gasteiztar institutions, the Alavesas, the Basques, the Europeans, the internationals, the universals, try to alleviate that situation in which they find themselves, that difference of treatment. On the contrary, we believe that something else can and should be done. Today, no one should doubt the international recommendations that require equal treatment of victims, that require the abolition of final-point or impunity laws, amnesty laws, that provide that crimes against humanity do not prescribe and that therefore should be prosecuted. However, the People's Party, the PP, is opposed to taking on these international recommendations. No one should doubt it today, but they doubt it. And that is precisely why we want to move from doubt to certainty with this initiative. With this compromise that we have been able to reach with the PNV and with the PSOE we want to take a step in this Parliament with a declaration, but also with contents, with recognition and with a reparation that imposes on us duties, a declaration that proposes concrete and effective steps to be taken in order to open the way. We believe that this is the best tribute we can pay to the victims of March 3 here in Gasteiz: Pedro María Martínez Ocio, José Castillo, Francisco Aznar, Romualdo Barroso, Welcome Perea. Ez adiorik, zeuen borroka gure herdua dellako.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. (Applause) Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, representatives of the Basque Socialists, Mr. Unzalu, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good noon to all. And welcome March three to the Society. Forty years ago today there was a massacre in our city that caused five deaths and more than a hundred wounded, forty-two of them shot. Those who by age and commitment participate in those events cannot forget the tension that existed in the mobilizations of the previous days, the horror of that March 3rd and the rage in the demonstrations of mourning of the subsequent days. Part of that rage today stirs our guts when we have known the attacks on the monuments that remind us of those facts. We would like to reiterate our strongest condemnation of such fascist acts. Today we remember Pedro María Martínez Ocio, Francisco Aznar, Romualdo Barroso, who died that same day, and José Castillo and Bienvenido Perea, who died shortly afterwards because of the gunshot wounds received. We will contribute little to everything that has been said in this House, in the General Councils of Álava, in the City Council of Vitoria, in the citizens' forums, about what happened that day. Each or every one of us on March 3 at the morning demonstrations, at the San Francisco assembly or in its vicinity, we have something to tell, something to remember and not forget. As I said before, these facts have been present in the debates of the institutions and in Victorian and Alavesa society. For this reason, the General Councils of Álava took the step of recognizing and compensating the victims years ago, the Basque Government commissioned an opinion from the Valentin Institute of Foronda, and this Parliament fully assumed it. Today, in addition to recalling the massacre, we want to make progress in that recognition. It cannot be denied that steps of recognition have been taken. Decree 107/2012, issued by the former Basque Government of the lehendakari Patxi López, whose Justice Adviser was Idoia Mendia, was a milestone in the recognition, reparation, rehabilitation and compensation of the victims of those acts. The victims of 3 March were included, as could not be otherwise, in all victims of human rights violations. Other avenues of recognition have been opened up over the years. The aforementioned Decree of the Basque Government, or Law 52/2007, which recognizes and expands rights and establishes compensatory measures for those retaliated by the dictatorship, are administrative channels by which progress has been made in order to be able to know the truth and rehabilitate the victims. We must not disregard this path for all the victims of Francoism. The actions envisaged in this Historical Memory Act must be recovered. It must be provided with the appropriate budget so that research work can be continued until the truth is known and reparations to the victims can then be addressed. I have said to recover the Historical Memory Law, because, although it is in force, during the years in which it has ruled the PP of Rajoy has been denied the minimum resources for it to have effect, for the administrative way of recognition to continue. However, we believe that progress must be made on another line, such as the criminal route, in which the same route has not been made as in the administrative one. In the months following the events, there was a dance between the courts, because it seems that neither military nor civilian jurisdiction wanted to get involved in the matter. In the end, a year later, in March 1977, a military court ruled that homicides had occurred, but the failure to identify the perpetrators reached the statute of limitations. There were years when this path seemed to be closed. Judge Garzón in 2008 wanted to open it to try Francoist crimes, but we all know how it ended, with the disqualified judge and a Supreme ruling that brought the Amnesty Act of 1977 into force so as not to go in and investigate and prosecute those crimes that occurred during the Francoism. In any event, efforts continued to be made to open the way by filing a complaint in an Argentine court. The complaint was accepted, and Judge Maria Servini of Cubría initiated the proceedings. This Parliament approved supporting the complaint, and a delegation from its Human Rights Commission had the opportunity to attend the hearing that the judge granted to the complainant victims, including the victims of 3 March. According to the above-mentioned interpretations, neither the Spanish justice system nor the Spanish Government have cooperated with this complaint, not in response to their claims. We have recently learned other interpretations of the possibility of opening cases in Spain to investigate and prosecute those who committed crimes against humanity during Francoism. They are based on the Convention on the Non-Applicability of War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity, and on UN declarations and conventions on enforced disappearances. According to these, there are two options for opening judicial proceedings on those crimes: one, to consider the rules on universal justice as mandatory, superior to the Spanish one, and the other, to reform the Amnesty Law. On the basis of all these reasons we have signed, as announced by the spokesman who preceded me in the speech, together with the Basque Nationalist group and Euskal Herria Bildu, a compromise amendment which reflects the aspects I have mentioned. Of course, on a day like this Parliament reiterates its solidarity with the victims of 3 March; calls on the Administration of Justice to abandon its inaction and comply with international law; proclaims that all victims must have equal treatment in recognition, reparation, rehabilitation and compensation; and, finally, calls on the Spanish Government to give the victims of 3 March their due treatment, and on the Basque Government, within its competence, to continue to implement these rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u94	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u95	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to greet the representatives of the 3 March Association who are accompanying us in this plenary session on a day like this. And the first thing I want to express from my parliamentary group, as we have done on other occasions, is our solidarity with the victims of 3 March, with their families, our recognition, our tribute and our condemnation for the brutal police operation that caused the death of five workers and injuries to many others that day of that sad winter of 1975. And also, as it cannot be otherwise, condemn the attacks on his memory that we have witnessed and heard news in the last few hours, something unacceptable and that deserves all the condemnation and all the rejection of society. We have seen that there has been a compromise amendment by three parliamentary groups. Basically, the questions that led us to make the whole amendment that we had tabled are listed, removing a point to which I shall now refer, and in that regard we will ask, if you will, to vote separately from the points. That is to say, we would vote on the second point separately, but it is true that the compromise amendment, I say again, covers much of the issues that we had taken up in our whole amendment. On the one hand, that solidarity and condemnation, as it cannot be otherwise, for the events that have taken place; the memory of our own parliamentary statements... Here we have also worked on this issue, there have been statements, the 2006 one was remembered; there was also parliamentary work in a special committee held in this Parliament... In other words, in that sense, we can also see that the issues are taken up. And of course the action, in use of our powers and powers, of course, for reparation, for reparation, for tribute, for the recognition of victims in this regard. That is why it is basically reflected in most of the points raised also by us and what we understand to be of justice. We're going to turn down the complaints anyway. That, the word "denunciations", came in the original text of the non-law proposal, the proposal, now replaced by the "constatation of the inaction of justice". We do not agree with that approach, and there we will have the discrepancy, in the initiative that you propose to us. No, you cannot complain, or you cannot accuse the Administration of Justice of inaction for applying the law, which is what the Administration of Justice, the courts, the Spanish judges during this time have done in some of the issues to which we refer. It's been enforcing the law. The law we all know, the law to which all of you have referred, the Amnesty Law. And in this regard we do not agree to accuse the Administration of Justice of inaction and to make it apply criminal responsibilities when it cannot, depending on the application of a law in force in Spain; of such an important law, to which I shall now refer. The Spanish justice system, from our point of view, and of course we defend it, has not obstructed any investigation process. It has implemented the law in force. Spanish justice could not establish criminal liability, since the Amnesty Act of 1977 prevented it, and the application of that law prevented it. There is nothing more to see than judgments, orders of the Supreme Court, the National Court, other judicial bodies, to see that the right to know the historical truth is not part of the criminal proceedings in this case, nor can there be criminal proceedings for prescribed or amnestyed offences. Others are the tools to be used to identify the historical truth, but in this case we could say that, unfortunately or not, but in this case not the judicial ones. I believe that it has been made clear in many statements and in many judicial proceedings in this regard. And indeed, as in everything else, there is a legal dispute, but it is the courts that apply the laws and decide what they can judge or what they cannot judge. I know this is the same for you, but legal certainty and judicial guarantees are obtained from the application of laws emanating from parliaments, whether we like it or not. And in this sense we understand that the 1977 law is a legal instrument that the judges have applied. And the Amnesty Law was the first pillar of the Spanish democratic transition, it was the great political news that favored and exalted especially political personalities (we all know, and we have remembered and seen it), like Marcelino Camacho, like Xabier Arzalluz himself, and some other (Txiki Benegas...). In other words, there are your claims regarding the value of that legal instrument. That legal instrument which had indeed had its value at the time and which had also been applied, had been applied by the judiciary in that country. What's the matter, what's that worth, then, isn't it? Is there...? For we think that it is good, that it is good, and that it did serve for reconciliation and to guarantee non-repetition, and to consolidate the democratic system in Spanish society. We think he did. We thought as Marcelino Camacho thought, who said that he considered that "the key part of this policy of national reconciliation had to be amnesty." That's what he said. "How could we reconcile those who had been killing each other, if we didn't erase that past once and for all?". "Amnesty is a national and democratic policy, the only consequent that can close this past of civil wars and crusades." Well, it's reflections from that moment. Aren't those thoughts worth it now? Some of us are still worth it. Xabier Arzalluz also considered and said publicly that amnesty was the inexcusable previous step towards a democratic situation:... "policy, concerns the solution of a difficult situation in which somehow a Gordian knot has to be cut with a slice." So Xabier Arzalluz referred to that, and he valued precisely that law, that historical moment of the Spanish transition, that first great historical moment of the Spanish transition that marked everything else. Arzalluz also said "It is not good at this time to bring blood facts, because blood facts have been on both sides, also by power", and some very sad and very affluent, to justify the need for that Amnesty Law. But, indeed, that, which has marked the actions of the courts, it is clear that it must not be used to prevent investigation, to prevent analysis. There's the studies, and they're still there. And the condemnation of history is also an important condemnation that we have to value. Political responsibilities, historical responsibilities, also come out of knowledge and also come out of the truth. For we will continue to move forward; historic and university institutes have done so in this country. We will continue to move forward, and of course we will treat it and want to propitiate it. In short, I would ask the proposers to let us vote point by point. Of course, the first point, where solidarity is expressed to the victims of 3 March and their families and the condemnation of the massacre that took place, is clear that we have expressed it, we defend it and of course we do our own. The third point, which "proclaims that recognition, reparation, rehabilitation and compensation should be granted to victims of human rights violations", in this case produced by law enforcement officials, "on equal terms with other victims", is quite clear that we do, that we value and defend it. And "the Basque Parliament demands the Spanish Government to grant the victims of 3 March the recognition and reparation they deserve", of course, and also urges the Basque Government to develop, in accordance with its capacities and powers, to continue to materialize this right of the victims. It is quite clear that we disagree, as I have already explained, with the second point, that it "consists of the inaction of the Administration of Justice", and it tells him and urges him to "set out the criminal responsibilities that may arise". We have seen that there is a law that conditions this, that we cannot actually defend it, because we agree with the application of the law in its terms, and in that sense we call for the separate vote on the second point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u96	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u97	Mrs. President, Congressman, good noon. First of all, I also want to say hello to the 3rd Society. 40 years ago Gasteiz lived one of the most violent and terrible events of his history. These events have marked the lives of much of the citizens of Gasteiz, and even today the memory of them is shaking. And it is that, ladies and gentlemen, in 1976 there was no democratic regime, the system based its legitimacy on the Franco dictatorship, and the Franco government, in addition, had a legal system that did not recognize citizens the set of rights and freedoms of a genuine democratic state. The Government, that Government, strictly applied repressive methods to movements fighting for freedoms, and to legitimate social demands, and as it controlled all spheres of power and all areas of public activity, did and did, without responding to anyone for their excesses and those of their agents. And he also manipulated the reality of what happened, building "official" versions – in quotes – of the facts that had nothing to do with reality. All this happened in Vitoria-Gasteiz on March 3. Despite this, our society is truly aware of what really happened, and rejects the version built by those responsible for the massacre to evade their responsibilities. Independent studies and opinions – already cited here – such as that carried out by the Valentin University Institute of Social History of Foronda, confirm the conviction that what happened in Vitoria-Gasteiz was an "unwarranted massacre" (sic) ordered by an undemocratic government in front of workers who peacefully demanded the improvement of their living conditions. Forty years have passed, and throughout this time the victims of those events have relentlessly demanded justice, reparation and memory. A good synthesis of these just claims was reflected in those five points in the institutional declaration of this Parliament of 3 March 2006. In that institutional declaration, which we all endorsed ten years ago, the status of victims of terrorism was recognized, the Spanish Government was urged to treat them identically, and it was supported that the responsibilities should be clarified. But, as has already been said here too, all this has not been accomplished. On the other hand, there are several social and institutional initiatives that over the past few years have tried to retrace some of those wounds; however, impunity has persisted to this day, as denounced last Friday in the Foral Diputación de Álava Nerea, the niece of Pedro Mari Martínez Ocio, one of the murdered. The question Lluís Llach asked in his Campaigns to the Dead, which was "Who cut off the breath of those bodies so young without any other treasure than the reason of those who mourn them?". From this rostrum, my appreciation to the Catalan singer-songwriter, who was able to express with his music the feeling of injustice in which, by the way, some insist forty years later, insulting with painting the monoliths raised in Gasteiz and in Dulantzi in memory of the victims of March 3. From this rostrum also my most absolute condemnation and my most absolute contempt of the authors of those paintings. Today we are debating a non-legislative proposal by Euskal Herria Bildu, with whom we have signed a compromise agreement between the Socialist Party and ourselves, in which we are once again expressing our solidarity with the victims and their families, together with the condemnation of those facts, we are also noting the failure of the Administration of Justice to investigate these facts, and the consequent establishment of appropriate criminal responsibilities; we are also calling on the Spanish Government to comply with the principle of equality, giving all those who have seen their human rights violated a similar treatment, and also calling on our Government, the Basque Government, to continue to promote policies of recognition and reparation. Decree 107 of 2012 and Decree 426 of 2013 on the reparation of victims of political motivation, the next law announced to us of unlawful repression, or the explicit support that not only this Parliament, but also the Basque Government, made to the lawsuit of Judge Servini. We also say that for all the victims. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done. We are making progress in building a society in peace and normalized coexistence, a society based on sound public policies of recognition and reparation for all victims; a society therefore committed to the rejection of any human rights violations. Today this Parliament, by adopting this compromise, will certainly take a step further in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u98	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u99	Thank you very much, President. Good morning again, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari. First of all, of course, I welcome the March 3rd Association, and I thank you for your presence in this debate and in plenary. Secondly, of course, we show our solidarity and support for the families, friends and victims themselves of the massacre perpetrated by the Armed Police on 3 March 1976 in this city. And thirdly, we want to condemn, of course, the murders committed and to demand the purposes and principles defended by those young workers: primarily to defend the labour rights of thousands of workers and also to defend democracy and freedoms throughout Spain. On the other hand, it can be said and reiterated that EH Bildu has no legitimacy to present this initiative. The reason I have explained it on other occasions, and I will re-explain it with all the calmness that you want but also with the greatest of controversies: those who collaborated with ETA and continue today without condemning ETA, those who pay tribute to jailed prisoners precisely because they were members of the terrorist gang, those who despise and insult the victims of terrorism and those who have their hands stained with innocent blood cannot defend the rights of other innocents who were also killed by those who did not respect human rights. They have no legitimacy to do so; at least they can't do it without the face of shame falling on them. We can only do that if we have clean hands, and obviously some of you do not have them. Killers and their accomplices have no legitimacy to claim as human rights defenders or to present initiatives like the one we discussed. You do not condemn the crimes committed by ETA, I insist; therefore, you do not have the legitimacy to put forward such an initiative. Mr. Arzuaga, you have spoken of those who said "A for them" or those who later said "Good work." I don't know if I meant exactly yourself. You have innumerablely raised the "A for them", and after the crimes committed by ETA you have also raised the "Good work", receiving with honors prisoners and prisoners released from prison. So, I don't know exactly who he was referring to. You could also refer to yourself, Mr Arzuaga. You've said "A for them" and raised one way or another the "Good job." I'll point out some data. First, that it is clearly true that on 3 March 1976 the armed police provoked a massacre in Vitoria during the holding of an assembly of workers, and that the direct perpetrators have never been tried, nor those responsible for the units that fired, neither the then civil governor, Fraga, nor Martín Villa. In other words, those who would be the most responsible politicians never went through an investigation process, let alone a criminal process. Secondly, it is argued that the Amnesty Act provided a record of this matter. If we admitted that there were crimes that could not be erased by the Amnesty Law, such as the murders of innocent people, then we would have to put back in jail all the murderers who were amnestyed, and we would have to look for and judge those who took up that law without going through jail. Therefore, criminal responsibilities are more than questionable with such a law. And if it doesn't help to leave the killers untried on March 3, it obviously wouldn't help to free those convicted of ETA blood crimes, and therefore those who didn't come to trial would have to be sought. Third, in relation to knowing the truth of the events, it is well known what happened there and who was directly responsible for the massacre. There is an extraordinary study of the Instituto de Historia Social Valentín de Foronda where it is meridianly clear what happened that day, the previous and the subsequent, where it points to those responsible with names and surnames. Therefore, we all know that the last political leaders were the ministers Manuel Fraga and Martín Villa, and the one who gave the eviction order the civil governor Rafael Landín Vicuña. And the direct manager, the captain of the armed police, who, after exhausting the anti-disturbing media, ordered to use real fire, Jesús Quintana Saracibar. We know these facts, it's the real facts, it's history that we obviously don't forget at all. Fourthly, on the recognition that the victims of that massacre certainly deserved and continue to deserve, they have been rightly recognized. In Vitoria there is a square with that name, the Foral Diputación de Álava awarded the medal of Álava to the Association March 3, there have been multiple acts of recognition, institutional declarations at the General Councils and unanimous pronouncements of this Parliament. They probably haven't been enough, they'll be done again. It's just and necessary. Fifth, about the repair they certainly deserve. These persons are covered by the Historical Memory Act, which recognizes as victims those who died in defence of democratic freedoms and rights between 1968 and 1977 and recognizes their right to compensation. They are, therefore, recognized. Sixth, the General Councils of Álava approved in 2008 an out-of-court rule recognizing the advance compensation to the victims of 3 March. It collects the same amounts as the Victims of Terrorism Act. By decree of the Álava Foral Diputación del Álava of 2009, the procedure for claiming compensation was issued and paid. The Basque Government has also promoted initiatives and actions. Seventh, and in relation to the last point of the original initiative, it is proposed to urge the Government to implement what has not been done by the Spanish Government and the Spanish justice system. However, it is already done, as explained in the two previous points, and there has been such economic and moral reparation. And the City Council of Vitoria and this Parliament have also paid tributes. Today, some tributes have been made, and in the future these tributes will obviously continue to be made, which, as I said earlier, are just and necessary. The victims have therefore received various and multiple fair recognitions, and have received compensation. They have certainly not been enough, but, in short, it does not seem that Basque society has forgotten the victims, but quite the contrary. Having said that, we once again strongly condemn those facts, and show our solidarity with the families and friends of the victims, and with the victims themselves, and with all the people who during those days defended the dignity of society and the freedom of all Spaniards. And not only that: we also condemn the paintings that appeared this week in the monoliths that honor the victims of March 3. They are fascist attacks on the victims of a legitimate struggle for decent working and living conditions, which were massacred by a regime that at the time was breaking and did not know how to contain the desire for freedom of the Spanish people. Finally, we denounce the use of national symbols, such as the flag of Spain, by those fascists who only represent themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answers, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u101	Thank you, Mr. President. Again comes the speech of condemning everything so as not to be responsible for anything. Mr Barrio, they condemn politically the events of the 3 March massacre here in Vitoria, but they do not allow that sentence to be at the headquarters where such convictions have to be issued, i.e. in court. It does not allow justice to be effective. And that is precisely why we have brought this initiative today. I believe that you have understood this well, because it is precisely for that reason that we are bringing this initiative, so that we can carry out an ordinary investigation, so that we can give an ordinary prosecution, and so that we can clean up responsibilities, which is precisely the purpose of this initiative. He asks me if we are going to allow the point-by-point vote and I say no, and I will give him four reasons. The first reason is Manuel Fraga Iribarne, who, still with the hot corpses, after the funeral said: "I hope that this sad event will serve as a great lesson in the coming months to all Spaniards". A threat, a warning to mark also how the reform of the Franco regime should take place, and, if not, come close to the consequences. Two. The Secretary of Justice, Rights and Freedoms of the People's Party, Iñaki Oyarzabal, said last year in an interview that the March 3 massacre was an excess in a police charge. He said the cops used firearms to defend themselves at a time when they were cornered by the crowd. Oyarzabal also pointed out in a tweet that these assessments were not correct, and he said: "I defended that action should have been taken against the police officials, and I called for an effective remedy for the victims." My question is: How should we have acted? My question is: To whom should an effective remedy have been claimed for the victims? I am also aware that Mr Oyarzabal has made some commitments to the victims of 3 March. I wonder what they were left with. Nothing at all. A couple of days ago, Mr. Barrio participated in a series of days organized also by the victims of March 3, and before them he assured them that the transition, that bloody transition, was a model transition. He said not all victims are the same. And I understand that it will be because some victims may well be dead, or perhaps better dead than others. He said there would be no space, in that memorial of victims of terrorism that will be built in this city, on questions from the victims themselves, there will be no space in that memorial to recognize, to remember the most serious massacre that has occurred in this city in modern times, in recent history. Look, Mr. Barrio, I do not deny you honesty, but I deny you any ability to empathize with the victims of March 3, I deny you any hint of humanity. Therefore, those false words that you bring us of solidarity and condemnation, without any facts, without any consequences, seem to us to be nothing but hypocrisy and cynicism. Fourth reason. Sculptures in memory of March 3 have recently been attacked. The facts have been claimed by the Falange by means of stickers. As far as I am concerned, these four expressions, these four facts (Manuel Fraga, Iñaki Oyarzabal, Carmelo Barrio, Falange), are but expressions of the same political reality. (Protestak) These are but expressions of an identical political sensitivity, which is yours! [[Objections]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u102	Silence... Silence! Silence, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u103	They only respond to their political strategy! [[Objections]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u104	Please, silence! [[Berber]] I'm sorry. Mr. Abulo, please retire what you said. Retire sleep dicho, please. Yes, I'm talking to you. retreat. Retreat what you said. Retreat what you said. [[Berber]] "Terrorist." Retreat what you said, please. Please! Please! Mr. Arzuga, please continue.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u105	Manuel Fraga Iribarne, Iñaki Oyarzabal, Carmelo Barrio, Falange, are but the pieces of the same puzzle. [[Objections]] Today's not worth false convictions. Today, empty solidarity is not worth it. Today is the time to take responsibility. (Berbotsa)
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u106	Please! Please! Me-se-dez! Everybody shut up! Please! A ver, you don't have a word. You've got the word later. You don't have a... Shut up or I'll throw you out, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Maniro, shut up, please. Maniro, do you want me to fire him? Mr. Maneiro, you haven't got a word. Okay? Mr. Maniro, shut up! On the street. On the street, Mr. Maniro, on the street. To Ka-le. That's what you want and you want to go out. On the street. [[Objections]] Mine, will you shut up? One. Will you shut up, Mine? On the street. On the street. [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u107	They've killed people. It's over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u108	Kalera. A ver... Please! Please, Mr. Arzuga. Quiet, please! Quiet, please! On the street. Please! Please! Some members of the legislature have left the conference room.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u109	Bukatu, yellow Arzuaga. Hamar second dauzkazu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. Today, I said, there are no convictions, there are no empty solidaritys, but it is time to assume responsibilities, and we think that this initiative clearly shows the terms on which they should be taken. Today we demand justice. Justice, the one a worker wrote on the floor with the blood of a companion forty years ago, right here in Gasteiz. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u111	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. [[Applause]] Please! Basque Socialists... He mustn't speak. Please be quiet. Mr. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u112	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I think it's going to be an absolutely wild move, because my answer, that of my second intervention, was primarily addressed to Mr Barrio, wasn't it? But, well, as will remain in the Journal of Sessions, I do not resist to comment on some things. I was going to say that the intervention of the People's Party, Mr Barrio, was disappointing to me, but that is not true, because one is disappointed when one expects something, and this was not really the case. This was not the case. All that the amendment brings to the whole of Mr Barrio, of the People's Party, is that Parliament recalls the institutional declaration of 2006. Man, I'd miss more! As if to forget what was contained in that statement that came from the events that had happened in 1976! And the People's Party stays there, stays in memory. Well, to me that second point in the amendment of the whole of the People's Party shows me that neither Mr Barrio nor his colleagues need to take Fosgluten Reinforced to reinforce his memory, but nothing more, absolutely nothing more. In his amendment, he urged the Basque Government to recognize and repair these victims. But, of course, what about your government? What about the Madrid government? He forgets that one more time. And I have to say one thing: the victims of March 3 were neither victims nor are they victims caused by Basque institutions. They were by an undemocratic government, okay, but a government of Spain. It would seem reasonable that, in the first place, it should be precisely that Government of Spain that compensates, that does justice and that asks for forgiveness from the victims of 3 March. Thirdly, it seems to me to be an absolute contradiction to that of the People's Party, because if in 2006 they were able to subscribe to an institutional declaration on which the third point was said "The Basque Parliament reiterates its support", and so on, and so on, "in order to bring justice to the victims and to clarify the responsibilities that they have to bear", and today it defends what it approved ten years ago. Total and absolute contradiction, although, as I said at the beginning, we are not surprised either, because we have already seen the position of the People's Party in that initiative that a party partner made in the Senate on this same subject, in relation to the complaint of Judge Servini, or that which has been raised not long ago in the Congress of Deputies for seven political formations, which has counted, of course, with the rejection and I would say that even the contempt of the People's Party. Mr Barrio argued that, of course, the Amnesty Act prevents anything from being done about the prosecution of those responsible for that massacre on 3 March. Look, I'm not going to answer him, he's going to answer the president of the Association Pro-Human Rights of Spain, Mr Jacinto Lara, who even yesterday on Radio Vitoria said that the law (and I imagine he'll know a lot more about this than you and that I, Mr. Barrio)... , said that the Amnesty Act does not prevent the investigation and prosecution of the facts of 3 March. It said: "The Amnesty Act of 77 in no case has the effect of exonerating persons charged with criminal proceedings from liability." And it seems to me that this is quite relevant, because when it comes to crimes against humanity they do not seem to prescribe. And on the other hand also the issue of the principle of universal justice. Mr Lara himself said, of course, that in the Spanish State, between the Administration of Justice and the Government of Spain, he said, "they have fabricated a wall that prevents the Spanish State, from any point of view, from doing that justice and clarifying the responsibilities". Furthermore – I conclude, Madam President – I am not fully aware of the law, but it would seem reasonable, even for those of us who are absolutely lay in this matter, that the Amnesty Act applies to facts already tried, to specific judgments. And look, Mr. Barrio, there has been no trial here, there has been no sentence that can be amnestyed. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, we have a subject for debate today that I believe deserves to be made the effort to seek agreement and I would say that even the unanimity of this House, because I believe that in matters such as this they are of special value. My group, of course, believes that this issue we are now discussing...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u113	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u114	... He's one of them. The transactional is reasonable in any way, and it differs little from that statement ten years ago in this very Parliament. And I think, and I conclude, that for the victims and their families it would be comforting, on this 40th anniversary, that this Parliament, as I say unanimously, should endorse their demands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u115	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u116	It's in your hands, Mr. Barrio and Mr. Maneiro. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u117	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre. Since the discussion has ended...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u118	Yes, to ask again for the point vote and say that if it is rejected we will vote in favour of the whole bill, stating that we do not agree with the second point, but out of respect for the victims of 3 March. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u119	All right. It's asked, and you don't let it happen. Well, we're done talking, we're going to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u120	Madam President, simply, as with allusions, I think I have the right to speak, only half a second...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u121	You don't have any words. Mr. Oyre generous, you don't... They had a Turno, they had a turbot. No, I'm sorry. You don't have a word. (Response) Mr. Oyre generous, you don't have a word. Do you understand? You don't have a word. Mr. Oyre generous, you don't have a word. You had the Turone, you weren't here, you could have defended yourself there, and you didn't. You don't have time. (Response) We're going to vote for EH Collect, Euskal Socialists and Ease patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 73; the supporters are 73; the opponents are 0; white, 0; abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-03.u122	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was three o'clock in the afternoon.
