ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u0	Good morning. We'll begin the Union with a minute's silence, in honour of Mr. Gregor Ordóñez. [[Pause]] First point in theme list: "Gather the bill of law, Arba, Bizkai, and the inhabitants of Gipuzah, that they may do. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we're going to argue without having to read it. It's a side and a two-way turn. On the side side, who wants to participate in EHG in addition? Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, we want to send the solid greeting to the workers of all the other companies that fight with TRWs, ABCs, and all the other companies that are fighting, and our greatest courage. We're with you. We have thought of men like you when doing this legal proposition, and we have thought of people like ourselves in doing this legal proposition. We were thinking of workers who are unemployed, who are also victims to the pride of labor. All these simple people, normal people. Without being the heroes of the Greek tragedies, who have been forced to pass severe Ododes in these days to pass through the calendar and finish the month. These are the new heroes of our time. In recent times, since EH Bildu we have talked about social sovereignty, and so it is. Our sovereignty is fundamentally social, because part of the real needs of the people, and because their end is the collective construction of a new country, a different country, where all the people who inhabit it can live in peace, freedom and social justice. Because living is not the same as living, and we and we want a country where all the people who live in it can really live in full, where from an economic, social and cultural point of view we want to put life at the centre of the political agenda, and we also aspire to a fair sharing of the wealth that we generate among all of us. We want decision-making power, all decision-making power, and we want it for the people, for the citizens and for the citizens, so that our country develops in social justice, meeting and satisfying the needs of people who are in the worst of situations, in the most difficult situation. And that has to happen at the cost of democratically suppressing the privileges of the economic and financial elites that have become entrenched in the political decisions that are made in Madrid, Paris and Brussels. But we do not want this faculty of determination for us, we do not require it for us, for our assembled representatives, but for the people. No intermediary, no representative. EHG is the function of providing tools for the citizens to be able to arrive at their desired capacity of decision. But the laws, as well as the laws, should be protected and preserved by the citizens only. Why this law abuse? Why do we say that people don't make decisions nowadays? During these days we've been able to find out what's going on with the ACB company: They're going to have to shut it down for a thousand employees on the street. As serious as this, the reality which we now stand before us is as crude as it is, and this is the result of a certain energetic policy which has not here been decided. That's why we want to decide here, because we see that it'll only be possible to build another country, build a town based on social justice, where workers will not have to go out for the decision of others. Iberdrolak gure bizitzetan evagiten duten erabaki handiagoak hartzen ditu Legebiltzar honek batho. Repsol decides more in our lives than any other Basque institution. The BBV, the Santander decide the economic direction, the economic guidelines of the Spanish State, and thus decide all the vavenes of the main living conditions of the citizens of this country as well. Demokrazia, formal demokrazia, azken urteetan hustu egin da. Representative democracy is increasingly a formal, empty housing of real content. Hutsik dagoen oskol bat. Because important decisions, fundamental decisions, those that condition the rest, are taken elsewhere. In the institutions which represent the citizens there is less decided, because the principal decisions are elsewhere. These resolutions are in those places where they have no right to choose the people. These decisions are superior to the institutions of formal democracy, and the citizens cannot choose their members, otherwise they might have an opportunity of choosing them because there would be more than one surprise. Democracy, the real thing, that of doing politics for and for people, and, why not, with people, is kidnapped by a financial elite that knows neither borders nor ethical scruples. That is the real situation we are facing. Our institutions decide within the narrow margins that others set them. Yesterday we heard Pedro Sánchez say that everyone is calm, that they are willing to fulfill everything they are told, and they are willing to respect those narrow margins that others decide for us and for us. And as a result of these margins, they are the latest labour reform, the pharmaceutical replenishment, the end of decent pensions and the progressive loss of quality in our public health and education systems, despite the incredible efforts of their workers to achieve similar results with far fewer resources. That is reality, or at least part of it. Halaber, mundu osoan, bathe batez ere gure Europa zahar honetan, bathe gizzarte zibilaren barruan nagusitzen ari den mugimendu bat. We are talking about a bottom current that is moving all over the corners of this old Europe. It is not just a movement; it is a set of common features, present in ever more numerous and influential social movements across the continent. Faced with the abuses of the powerful, facing an increasingly distant and inaccessible power, facing the growing disenchantment towards representative democracy, which is accused of being a mere testator of these economic and financial powers, facing growing social inequalities, more and more people in Europe are betting on models of direct democracy as the only possible way to return to the original meaning of the concept of democracy. That is to say, in the affairs of Europe more and more people do in their lives, in the principal decisions, they seek to participate. It is not ready to give some decisions to others, because these representatives, instead of acting for the benefit of the people, do it for the benefit of other interests. People, our people too, want to decide. He wants to decide why he feels politically older and does not need anyone to take him hand in hand anywhere. She wants to make decisions on big issues, and she also wants to decide on small issues, but for her they are fundamental; issues that have to do with the study center of her daughters, with the health center of the neighborhood, with the cultural or sports infrastructure that the city has planned, with fracking, with the working conditions of her company, or with how she wants the country where she lives. It's normal, because it places itself inside a logical process. There was a time when most people were willing to decide for themselves. We've been used to Françoise for a long time, but we've been used to a little Mr. Zarank to decide everything. Thus, perhaps, it was a very new and beautiful thing to men to decide by their own representatives in this variety, and by their disputes. It's happened to all of us once, we've had this fascination for the formal democracy, and it's normal and logical. As time went on, he began to ask how and how all the decisions he had taken were not his own, because they were not his favourites. That is to say, she began to proclaim transparency. The transparency was announced, and we all thought it logical and useful. But without long delay, perhaps because they were not reasonable decisions, or because the people were full of the ambition of democracy, or whether they questioned what was decided by their representatives, and demanded more and more. Some didn't take it very well, always high, efficiently, but they had to accept it. Now we stand in this course of development in front of the next logical step. People don't want people to decide for themselves, people don't agree with transparency, people aren't ready to decide to confirm what others have decided. Because people want to decide. They want to decide. They want to be part of the entire process, from start to the end. The peoples want to be part of the whole process of deciding; some probably more and others less. And we, representatives of these people, can feel the will of the people as a threat to our holy formal democracy, or we can take it as the next logical step necessary in the development of democracy. Some people don't like people to decide. They're authoritarian, they like to send them. There are those who see it positive, but in order, because they consider that these people already decide enough when they decide every four years that they sit in the seats they currently occupy. And there are those who, despite the difficulties and complexity involved in trying to reconcile representative democracy with direct democracy formulas, believe that this is the only way that brings us closer to real democracy. Democracy which is itself a tool of social transformation, or should be, because it empowers society, that is, it gives it power of decision, it makes it sovereign of their own lives. What less can one ask in this 21st century! We have said this on numerous occasions: a society that is accustomed to decide, to make its own decisions, big and small, on everyday issues and also on transcendent issues, is a society that is much more democratically mature, much more socially cohesive, and much more skilled and tolerant in managing its own complexity. Such is the society we seek to build, and we know that we are not alone in this effort. We're not alone in the streets, and we're sure we're not alone in this room. The road, of course, will not be easy, always lofty, efficient, always afraid that people should own themselves; but as long as we are representatives of the community, we must give tools to the people, the people, the civil society, to those whom we call civil society, to whom instruments may be made. There was a generic name for this legal proposition. Of course there was. But because we're a bunch of perverts, we named it "law to make the people possible." The power of the people, the power of the people, and the power of the people. This summarizes the nature of our plan. It has been lost to us that we drank from the fountain of Catalonia, or that we went to Catalonia and brought the fountain here. It doesn't matter. It cannot be denied that our legal proposition now has one leg in Catalonia, but the other here, right here, right here in this parliament, 2004. In a year, he has it. And besides, we must say that we have drunk of other sources. And the name of this law drinks from feminism. Feminism is the concept of the greatest successful (in the young temporansia) movement that has made and most developed. In this society in which we live, so back from everything, women continue to be passive subjects for many men, who continue to see in them only and exclusively objects to use and objects to abuse and discard when they are not useful to their interests. And they've decided no, they're active subjects and they're going to be the only owners of their lives. And they are also clear that their empowerment process will not be prevented by any violent male, no matter how strong he is, no matter how great his ability to do harm. And these women have made their personal empowerment process a collective empowerment process, that of an entire society. A whole society, today, against macho violence and, more importantly, against the social model that nourishes and sustains it. Or at least it should be. It is in tribute to these women as our bill is called "empowerment", because we want a society, like them, empowered. "Citizens and sovereign citizens, masters and mistresses of their destiny, captains and captains of their soul," wrote English poet William Ernest Henley. This law allows us to organize our queries. To organize them everywhere: in the rank of the people, in the regional rank, in the country, and, why not, in the race of Autonomy. He puts a legal umbrella in a shelter to enable the citizens to decide. That's what we've been looking for. That's what we're offering. And we know the way is not going to be easy, but we know we're not alone on that road. And that way with others, of course, we want to do it. Before we finish. As I said, we know we can't do it alone, we'll need others to do that. We believe that what we have brought here today is a small step, but a very important step, to make the right of deciding, in order to get the right to the exercise, to make this town, its citizens, decide their political, economic, social, and cultured future. That's our plan. Eta gaur lege-proposamen ha traducera onartzeari argi berdea ematen baldin bazaio, argi eta garbi daukagu argi berde hori izango her, bat, to continue working; two, to start talking, and, three, to seek agreements. In order to seek agreements here with those who are receptive, with those who are receptive to the idea that the right to decide belongs to us must be realized; outside of here, with the political groups who are not here today, but who claim to be in favour of the right to decide, and also, how not, with all social forces, with the social movement and with trade unions, and with all organised civil society, which we believe must be a fundamental part of this process, a process that must begin today and that must end the empowerment of our society and the materialization of the right to decide. That's our goal. We are prepared to make our way, and if, as I have said before, this legal proposition is accepted to-day, we consider it to be a green light, but that green light is to continue to talk to us for once, and of course to find the agreements. That's our intention. That's our will. Next stop is the right to decide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u2	Thank you, Mr. Ray. If we pass on to the U.S. Round, who are to participate? On the other side? Does PPk do? On the other hand, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Let us begin to dismantle the cheap demagogy carried out by Mr Arraiz and the anti-democratic fallacies he has raised throughout his intervention. This law has wanted to be called by EH Bildu "law for empowerment", but rather it should have been called, in our opinion, "law of impediment", because what it basically proposes is that there be a part of citizenship that cannot make its own decisions. This is what this initiative seeks. It is not to give more power to the people, but to take it away; it is not to give more power to the Basque citizens, but to take it away from the rest of the Spanish citizens so that they cannot decide on sensitive matters that directly affect them. Therefore, this is what EH Bildu intends with his initiative, that the other Spanish citizens have no voice or vote when deciding the territorial model of the State, the future of Spain or the reform of the Spanish Constitution, and that they finally bend and we all bow to the nationalist postulates. Mr Arraiz was meridianly clear at the time when he registered this initiative. He said that "While in Madrid the front of no, of denial and of imposition was being formed, this is our response", when there really is no greater exercise of imposition than the defense of an initiative as reactionary as that which has been proposed to us. Mr Arraiz said: "We will enter a scenario of political confrontation and we are prepared for it." He added that "We are only going to obey the mandate of Basque citizenship, and we do not obey what Madrid can think." Therefore, the right to decide by EH Bildu is claimed, but what the nationalists really claim is not to exercise that right to decide, but what is intended is to prevent the other citizens from also being able to decide what affects everyone. Mr Arraiz said in his speech that "we want all the decision-making power". In fact, what is being said is that we want to remove that decision-making power from the rest of this country's citizens. Therefore, what is intended is to prevent the other citizens from also being able to decide what affects everyone. It does not intend to take away power from Repsol, economic or financial powers, certain elites or the powerful, but rather to take away power and the right to decide and be able to decide on the other Spanish citizens. Because the right to decide does exist, it is the basis of all the democracies in our environment, and it is that citizens decide by their vote and within their sphere of competence their own future and the decisions that directly affect them. What EH Bildu proposes to us is a deeply reactionary idea; it is intended to divide that right to decide, it is intended to break Spain and it is intended to break the common citizenship that we all share Spanish citizens. What EH Bildu proposes to us in the background, beyond cheap demagogies, is to raise borders between fellow citizens, reduce our living space and therefore cut our rights and our own decisions. In addition, what EH Bildu proposes to us is to violate the current legality, blow up our framework of coexistence and fail to comply with the Constitution itself, a legal framework that can be changed, but which, if it wants to be changed, must be changed through the established legal channels. We will therefore vote against taking this bill into consideration for all these reasons: because it is unconstitutional, illegal, deeply anti-democratic and reactionary. The Basque Government, in its agreement to set out the criteria for this initiative, points out that it does not oppose it. It does not oppose, obviating the true and real claim of EH Bildu, which is to exercise in a fraudulent and anti-democratic way the non-existent right to self-determination, against the current legality and pretending to plot the shared citizenship, which is why we can conclude, again, that we are faced with a new show of intellectual and political cowardice of the Basque Government of the Basque Nationalist Party. Because, beyond what is said in that initiative, EH Bildu does not intend to deepen democracy, but to skip it. EH Bildu does not want Basques to exercise our rights freely and democratically, but to prevent other citizens from exercising their right. EH Bildu proposes a way for Basque society to have the capacity to decide political, social and economic issues of great importance. However, it does not propose that or does not guarantee that, but we prevent those who have the right to co-exist them according to the current competences and who share their citizenship with us from being able to do so. And, of course, it is not for us as a people that the State should recognize our capacity for decision-making, but only in what we have competence and on the basis of existing legality. Because, just as the city of San Sebastián tomorrow cannot make certain decisions behind the backs of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council or the Basque Government, neither can Euskadi take them behind their backs or against the rest of Spain. You can't do that. It is simply a question of complying with the law in force, and we know that without law there is no democracy, however much those who are not democrats pretend in a demagogic way to tell us milongas or tales. And democracy also implies and obliges us to prevent anyone who can supposedly decide what is the responsibility of many to decide alone and against the rest of our fellow citizens. And this does not impose Madrid, but democracy. The aim is to safeguard the legal norms, the Spanish Constitution and democracy itself. What happens is that EH Bildu does not like people to decide; among other things, because they consider that they are only people, and the others are not that we are not people, but that we are not even citizens. It is therefore a deeply undemocratic initiative, no matter how much it is intended to sweeten or tangle this initiative with concepts such as participation, democratic deepening or transparency, no matter how much Mr Arariz has spoken here today of feminism or social justice, of social inequalities or, generally speaking, of people. What is intended is to deprive a part of the citizen of his or her rights. This is the fundamental summary not only of nationalism, but also, in particular, of this initiative. To this end, what the Basque Government should have done is to have shown its unfavorable view of this initiative, and what the Basque Nationalist Party should do today is to vote against it. And if the PNV does not vote against this initiative, it will be saying that the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government itself are also willing to skip the law when they deem it appropriate. And this is extraordinarily serious, that the Basque Nationalist Party will vote in favour of an initiative that seeks to break shared citizenship and skip the current legality. All these are not opinions of UPyD, it is not a partisan position that I have come to defend; they are simple basic concepts on which any democratic system is based, and, of course, representative democracy. Citizenship cannot be divided, sovereignty in our case belongs to all Spanish citizens. The right to self-determination does not exist in any democratic constitution in the world, except as I have explained, i.e. the right of citizens to participate in decisions affecting them. Under no circumstances can a part of the citizenry decide on the territorial organization of the State, or on any other aspect or precept of the Constitution, excluding the remainder of that decision. No authority or public authority has the right to deprive all or part of the citizens residing in its territory of the rights and freedoms which the Constitution recognizes and guarantees to each and every Spanish citizen. And this is what this initiative seeks. These are simple basic concepts on which the democratic system is based. I have therefore not defended partisan postulates, UPyD ideas; I have put on the table basic principles on which any democratic system is based. In conclusion, we vote no, because the proposal is not only deeply undemocratic and clearly illegal, but also reactionary, but deeply absurd in the globalised world in which we live today and in the Europe of free citizens we want to build. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Next up, representing the Basque Group. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, good morning. Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning, everyone. We will vote against the way this bill is dealt with for two reasons. One, of a legal nature or dimension, and another, of a political nature. Starting with the legal arguments, although for the proposer group they are the least important, we have to say that the text of the bill that is put to the vote today is a short and sticky one. It is a short and sticky of a practically literal transcript of Law 10/2014, of 26 December, of popular non-referendary consultations and other forms of citizen participation, of Catalonia. Mr Arraiz acknowledged in his speech that one of the two legs they have was in Catalonia; he gives the feeling, after listening to him and, above all, having the opportunity to know the text, that they have both legs in Catalonia. The proposed law is presented on 30 November 2015 – if we are not mistaken – nine months after the unconstitutionality of several precepts of the Catalan law of reference, that of the short and stick, and that, despite having been declared unconstitutional, are maintained as it is in the text of the proposed law. The ruling of the Constitutional Court, even if a part of this House is not interested, does not care or does not condition it, we believe it is good to bring it in. The Constitutional Court ruling of 25 February 2015 declared unconstitutional the first two sentences of Article 3.3, which speaks of "Non-referendary popular consultations may be of a general or sectoral nature. General consultations are those open to legitimate persons", et cetera. It also declared Article 16(4)-9 unconstitutional. These phrases are textually and systematically maintained in the same way and in the same article in the proposal put to the vote. Just as it also persists in upholding the literality of the paragraphs in the same article and in the same paragraphs. It therefore participates in this proposal of declared unconstitutionality with regard to Catalan law. However, I insist, the unconstitutional precepts are maintained in an obvious mockery of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which we do care about, and a record disregard of legality, which we do care about. But this initiative is not only unconstitutional in terms of general consultations, but, unlike the Catalan one, it also contravenes the legality with regard to the popular ones regulated in Article 2 on a competitive basis. As in the Catalan case, the proposed law regulates throughout the second title, under the name of general consultations, a genuine referendum consultation, articulated as an appeal to the electoral body through the vote. In this way, the sectoral consultations regulated in the proposed law (literal copy, like all, of the text of the Catalan law) presuppose the call for a more restricted legal subject than the electoral body, as they articulate particular or collective wills, but not general, that is, not attributable to the electoral body. But in the case of this proposal for a law, these sectoral consultations are channels of participation whose regulation by the Basque Parliament is not possible, because they lack the essential statutory competition title, unlike in this case, in a surprising way, the Catalan text, which had this coverage in Article 122 of its Statute. Therefore, this proposal for a law not only ignores the Spanish Constitution, but also our own Statute of Autonomy, which, as I said at the beginning, is not surprising coming from Bildu, although something more surprising is being supported by the Basque Government or as the Basque Nationalist Party will do. Surprised, though perhaps not too much. But he said that, in addition to the legal arguments, there are also political arguments, and they are just as strong. This initiative – let us be clear, Mr Arraiz – seeks to provide tools to achieve the independence of Euskal Herria. If we are clear, this is what you intend and this is the ultimate goal. There is no will to deepen the processes of participation, but to deepen the independenceist political objective. Socially and politically failed models, such as the one promoted in Catalonia by the independenceists, intend to move to Euskadi. What has been demonstrated over time as a direct attack on coexistence and understanding is now intended to reproduce as in Euskadi. And Bildu wants to equate us to Catalonia, but we want to act like Basques. We argue that representative democracy must continue to modernize the tools it provides for better service to citizens, that we must continue to deepen policies of participation and consultation, that governments and institutions must have more and better means of connecting with citizens. But we are not going to participate in or promote a political strategy that aims to achieve an obviously political objective, the independenceist, which, in addition to being harmful in economic and social terms, would cause a deterioration of coexistence and understanding between Basques. It is surprising, or not – I have to confess that these things still surprise me, perhaps they offend me – that the Basque Government does not oppose in its judgement the treatment of this initiative, manifestly unconstitutional, on popular consultations, when only six months ago it was the Basque Government itself that vetoed, that opposed the processing of a popular legislative initiative for the amendment of Law 18/2008 of 23 December, for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion, which was endorsed by more than thirty thousand signatures of Basques and Basques. And, in this regard, I must congratulate Mr Arraiz, you and your parliamentary group, on having dragged the entire Basque Government into their strategy and probably – now we will see it – the Basque Nationalist Party. And, finally, a minor question. Mr Arraiz has literally said that this initiative was intended to empower people. This – there Bildu –, the use of people referring to citizens, is a very Podemos speech. There you are in your emergencies, how you want to combat your electoral emergencies. But people are citizens, you know? We live in a democratic and social state of law. This entelequia that you call people are citizens, with rights and obligations. Yeah, they're citizens. And the citizens of Euskadi have power. Unlike his speech, according to which they seem to want to illuminate democracy and give power to the people, the citizens in Euskadi, fortunately, without the need for Bildu to grant it to us, we have power. And we have decided our past, we have decided our present and we will continue to defend our future. Another thing is that you do not like what the Basque citizens decide. Another thing is that you, by the back door, as you don't like what the Basque citizens decide, want to alter that decision – I insist, in the past, in the present and the one we will continue to take from the Basques – by questioning the democratic system that we have acquired over thirty years ago and whose benefits to Basque society are more than obvious. It is legitimate for you not to share the system, it is legitimate for you to have an alternative project. What is not legitimate is that they deny democracy in Euskadi, that they deny that the Basques are citizens and that they relegate us to people, that they deny that we have been making decisions for more than thirty years – some wrong, no doubt, but the vast majority of them right – that deny the legitimacy of democratic processes and electoral consultations that have taken place in Euskadi throughout democracy. That's not legitimate. Because to defend a political position, we cannot deny the legitimacy that we have had, that we have and that we will have the Basques to decide our future, as we have been doing in all democracy. It is legitimate that you do not like balance, do not like representative democracy and its successive results...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u6	End up, Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u7	It's legitimate that they don't like it. It is also legitimate that we, probably not most of us today, are not prepared to enter that game, which does not want to delve into models of democracy or consultation, but what it wants is to pursue and achieve a particular political goal, which is the independence of Euskadi. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u8	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Euskal Socialists' representative. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u9	Thank you, President. Mr Arraiz, unlike the two Members who spoke before me, I must admit that I am pleased with what I have heard in this rostrum. I found it interesting that you were able to find the magic formula that solves political, social, economic, financial and even personal relations problems from a pen. What I do not understand is that you have not brought it before, because you would have saved us a huge legislative effort in this House and saved the government the trouble of having to breach its own legislative timetable. From a stroke we would have solved with this law all the problems that affect Basques for many years. But the problem is, it's not like you told me. Because we all know, and you better than anyone else, that we are facing a sterile and false debate. Sterile, because we are aware, and so are you, that this does not lead anywhere. Bildu's bill for the empowerment of the citizens of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa (translated, law of consultation) has no possibility, and you know it, in the little that remains of the legislature, to reach a good port. First, for lack of material time to process it. But also because its main claim, to which I shall now refer, goes beyond the competence of this House in an open and clear way, and on that there are some very precise legal reports from this Parliament, and two decisive judgments. And what I already think is the height of shame is that you begin to justify this law by referring to workers' problems in the Bizkaia Compact Steelworks. Because we, instead of bringing this, which is entertainment, have done what we have done is to promote an institutional declaration to support business continuity. Everything else is oropeles. And it is a false debate, because we all know that, despite invoking principles as commendable as citizen participation in public affairs, empowerment or open politics, what is really meant by the proposition is to collate the famous consultation. Not citizen consultations, perfectly feasible in different areas and subjects; for example, on how to recycle garbage in a locality, or on what people think about installing an electrical power plant in their municipality. In the first case, you were not exactly in favour of holding consultations or referendums in Gipuzkoa for citizens to decide on something that directly affected them. And in the second case, with Boroa's power plant, it also does not seem that the PNV was very willing for that to happen. Moreover, the PNV put on the table three reasons to deny it: first, that it was illegal; second, that it exceeded the competence, and third, that it divided the citizenry. Look at the same arguments we use that we argue that a consultation law can't solve anything but make problems worse. In short, the only consultation that you are really interested in and interested in is the referendum of self-determination, disguised, it is true, of innocuous multifunction consultation in this case, because it seems to serve everything. Our group is going to vote against Bildu's bill, not because we are opposed, that we are not, to consulting citizens in controversial matters that affect them or to people having the capacity to take initiative and participate and decide in public affairs, but we do demand that this be done without traps and following established procedures. That is why we in the Bureau objected to the introduction of the bill, because this was done in 1998 on the basis of a legal report by the senior lawyer of this Parliament, before a proposal to hold a consultation on the independence of Euskadi, in this case a representative of the Joint Group. What that report of the Basque Parliament says is the same as what the Constitutional Court said in its ruling on the consultation law that the tripartite of Ibarretxe adopted in 2008 and on the Catalan consultation law a year ago. In short, that a consultation in which the general electoral body of an autonomous community is called as it is called, does not cease to be for all purposes a referendum regulated in article 92 of the Constitution, and, as established by the Constitution, the authorization to convene such a consultation is the exclusive competence of the State. And that no longer goes into consideration what is going to be the object of this autonomous consultation, which we already assume is seen by the background and the intentions expressed. As a result, as long as the Constitution is not changed, the regulation by this Parliament of such consultations is out of its competence, and you know it perfectly well, Mr Arraiz, and so do the members of the PNV. In the same way that we all know that, although it seems so, here we are not talking about legal issues or citizen participation, but about pure politics, but party politics, Mr Arraiz. This proposition is just another episode of the struggle that you have with the PNV for the hegemony of the nationalist world. Pure opportunism, to try to put Mr Urkullu and Mr Egibar in a hurry and to see if they manage to put them in a renunciation. As the PNV buried the prediction that it had made (in its electoral program, by the way) to submit in 2015, this year that we have already passed, to popular endorsement of the new status it claims, Bildu wanted to put it colored before the nationalist parish and offered to take the ballot boxes to the streets of Euskadi in 2016. To this end, he announced the presentation of a consultation law on 8 September, on the eve of the Diada and the so-called plebiscite elections in Catalonia. And, as the constitutional process that has been haunted by Catalonia for years, Bildu had no objection to literally shooting the content of the law of non-referendum consultations approved by the Catalan Parliament and partially annulled by the Constitutional Court months later. And I'm going to give you another reason why your bill should not have been admitted to procedure and should not be taken into consideration now: because it is a bad copy of Catalan law, so bad that you just replaced the wording of the title (putting that bumpy empowerment of citizenship, which serves you to make a feminist speech), to remove the word "non-referendaries" from the word "consultations" (that you have not bothered or to keep the appearances of legality, something that at least the Catalan independenceists tried) and to replace "Cataluña", "president" and "Generalitat" with "lehendakari", "Euskadi" and "foral diputations". If in the text they hung on their website they did not even pass the proofreader and they were inserted in article 31.f the phrase "The high offices of the Catalan institutions", which appears in the original transcript! Look, even on the page of the Rincón del vago you'll see a lot more, before shooting a text, than you've done. And with this plenary we face the final straight of the legislature, a very difficult four-year term for the people, who in Euskadi and outside of Euskadi strives to overcome the ravages of this crisis that we still have on top of and for which is not the solution this law that you present. And what Bildu brings us to discuss are not initiatives to help bring the situation back, not, but the usual: looking to overflow the PNV, or at least entangle it with the obsessions they share. Well, although I suppose you already imagine, I will tell you, Mr Arraiz, that our vote is clearly going to be against the consideration of this proposal for a law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u10	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing by the turn of the answers, represent the EH Group. Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u11	Good morning again. It's a pity that people don't usually listen to this legislature. And no matter what you say from here, you bring your script from home and spits it anyway, the one who hasn't heard anything. What a pity no one had ever answered what he had said! However, I want to tell Mr. Maniro something specific. This proposition of our law, when you are out of this legislature, will give you the opportunity of taking part in political life, taking part in the consuls, and taking part in all such cases as the rest of the people do; and then I think it will be very useful for you. So you should rate our legal proposal better. On the other hand, in what we have spoken of democracy, it is very serious that Mr. Sémper has spoken. I believe that all that he has said explains very well what the Spanish State is like, and what a democracy this state is afraid of. He can't admit that any part of him can decide on his own, because he's afraid of such decisions, because in theory he's afraid of the decisions of their fellow-citizens. A state of this kind is extremely weak, politically weak, and has too much democraticly to learn. I believe in it, or you can guess how to democratize the state, or the problems of that state will grow larger and larger. And in this historic occasion we're living now, that's one of your main challenges. Or you will succeed in this, and give him a democratic solution, or else this state will not succeed. And he said he was afraid to see where the decisions are made. We believe that it is very remarkable that at the present day the citizens see that their decisions are very far from them, sometimes through euphemism. We don't know what Brussels is and what Brussels is, we don't know if it's the World Bank or what kind of organization it is. There are swallows, creatures, and we do not know how they are regulated, but they make decisions, and oblige them to form a government, or not to produce another one, with such pressures, here and there, in the last forty days, in the Spanish State, to show clearly what manner of government they are to form, what government they want. What for? To make the policies they want, not others. And the politicians who will sit there must admit that they will be mere testafrots, their testafroese; that's their role, that's the paper that history gives them. They are losing confidence in the formal democracy, and they wish to make decisions themselves, which is the only way to change things. You were talking about people. I don't think there's anything pejorative about being considered people. I, at least, love being people, I have no problem. And of course we are citizens, or sometimes we try to be citizens. But what we also have very clearly is that its economic policies, the economic policies that the People's Party has developed as the backbone of other economic and financial powers, have not treated us as people. So many people have not been treated as people with their basic rights. And that's really serious. And it's very good that you bring in institutional statements. After converting, after privatizing, that they bring institutional declarations is fine. If you're happy with that, perfect. But that is really useless for all those people who are suffering the consequences of their policies. And I will recognize the Socialist Party that they have taken a step forward. They have decided that at least they will consult their militia on the possible government agreement they can reach. You are also taking steps internally, although Idoia Mendia does not seem to like it too much, because two days earlier she said that they were not an assembly party, that they were not one to ask people, their own people, their own militancy, although two days later she already seemed better, when Pedro Sánchez announced it. It's a step forward. They don't want to ask the rest, but at least theirs are going to start asking them. Ez dago beat gaizki. We want to ask every citizen, every citizen, a todos los ciudads y Ciudadas vascas. And of all things, I know why she's so afraid. There may be accounts of the State, of the several kinds, of all subjects, and of those which belong to Autonomy, of course. What's the trouble with asking people? What is the difficulty in asking people for the growth of democracy? Can there be anything more democratic than to ask people and to decide them? Isn't that the essence of democracy? Is it not the basis of democracy that people can decide freely? Or does your decision have to be limited to electing your representatives every four years? In our opinion, no. In our view, the election of representatives must be compatible every four years with the paths of direct democracy, which only enrich and give substance and real meaning to democracy. If we really want democracy. Or, if not, we accept blackmail and are willing to be mere testifiers of other economic and financial powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ray. When you answer it, Mr. Maniro, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u13	Thank you. I say, the demagogy of life, because these problems that Mr Arraiz points out are solved through the established legal procedures, through the presentation of initiatives in Congress, in the Basque Parliament, through the presentation of amendments, through debates between political groups. This is how these problems are solved: social inequalities, sexism or gender-based or gender-based violence, unemployment, precariousness, the subordination of politics in relation to certain political, economic, financial or media powers. To solve all this there are parliaments and there is debate between political forces who think differently. This you are proposing is not intended to solve any of that. You don't want to consult people. It does not mean that citizens are free to decide between different options, but what it basically means is that there are certain citizens who cannot decide, who cannot co-decide, who cannot comment on matters that directly affect them, such as the territorial model of the State, the Spanish Constitution or the future of the country, or the future of Spain. Therefore, the aim of that proposal is not to solve any of that, nor would it solve any of that. On the contrary, what I would do is to restrict our freedoms, to restrict our rights and to restrict our right to decide, because we all have the right to decide and we want to continue to exercise it, but on the basis of the competences we enjoy and in any case respecting the existing legality. And, of course, we continue to defend democracy, the Constitution and representative democracy, which is the basis of our freedoms. And what you are proposing is not to exercise the right to decide, but what you are proposing is that there is a part of citizenship that cannot exercise its right to decide. That is the fundamental key to the ideology in general nationalist, and in particular, in this case, of what EH Bildu has proposed. But surely the position of the lehendakari and the position of the Basque Government is more serious. Surely the most serious is the cowardice of the Lehendakari and the Basque Government in issuing their position on this initiative in that document prepared by the Government itself. You cannot say that you are not opposed to this initiative being debated. It is a clearly illegal, unconstitutional initiative, that all it intends to do is make progress on the disconnection of Euskadi from Spain. It's unconstitutional and it's illegal. Therefore, any government – autonomous as well – democratic what it has to say in the first place is that this is illegal, and therefore should have shown its unfavorable criterion. And this is certainly the most shameful part of today's debate if it is confirmed that Mr Egibar and the rest of the Members of the Basque Nationalist Party can come to vote in favour of this initiative, an illegal initiative. Are we beginning to violate all citizens' current legality? Or can the Nationalist Party and the Basque Government only pretend to do so? No doubt, this is the most serious thing. We already know that we are facing a war between nationalists, a political battle between nationalists...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u14	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u15	...and in this case between EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party. And again, the Basque Nationalist Party is being dragged, in this case voluntarily, by the most radical theses of Basque nationalism. And this is the most serious, most shameful part of today's debate, that the Basque Nationalist Party is going to give the OK to a deeply reactionary, anti-democratic and clearly illegal initiative. It is therefore extraordinarily serious what is going to happen this morning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u16	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. You're eating other people's time. Thank you, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u17	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u18	Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u19	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Arraiz, we do listen to them; what happens is that we don't have to accept their script. To listen to them we have no problem, no hearing or oral comprehension; what happens is that we don't have to accept the script that you mark us. Others already accept it, but the rest of us don't have to do it. I believe that your political initiative is weak from the outset, because I believe that you do not respect the will of the people. And I'm going to give you two examples, one very serious and one important. The serious thing is that for more than thirty years the vast majority of Basques, a overwhelming majority of Basque citizens, wanted peace, we wanted ETA not to kill, we wanted to be able to resolve our differences politically, exclusively with political tools, and you did not accept the popular will of the Basques, you turned your back on the Basques for more than thirty years, Basques and Basques that we wanted in a forceful and unquestionable way that on this earth there was peace, which is the same as saying that on this land ETA did not exist and did not kill. Therefore, they cannot give us lessons to abide by and accept the popular will, because they still have a very long stretch to go through, although it sounds contradictory, to undo another very long stretch of the back to the popular will expressed mostly, I insist, for more than thirty years by the Basque citizens and by the Basque citizens. Nor can we be taught lessons – this is the serious demonstration, we go with the important, but less serious, of what we have experienced in Gipuzkoa in the last four years. A historical territory in which there were many debates, but there was also one that admitted no doubt about the majority will of the Gipuzcoans, which was about the treatment of garbage. And you, who have governed the institutions, where you have had the opportunity to demonstrate that acceptance of tools of citizen participation have not, because in Gipuzkoa peoples in particular and in Gipuzkoa in general, the Gipuzcoans were denied the possibility of manifesting themselves on a sectoral matter. That is, the opportunity that you have to abide by the will of the people, or at least to test it, the will that you despise and reject. We're talking about something else. And a non-minor question. I believe that if we do not give reason, those who give reason are accused of extraordinarily extravagant things. He has told us that we are the will of the State. No, Mr. Arraiz. You have come to say that we are representatives of a state that denies the word, etc. No, we're Basques, we're Basque citizens. People, but also Basque citizens, that we have an opinion about Euskadi, that we do politics in Euskadi for Euskadi, you know? And we believe that what you pose is bad for people, for Basque citizens, for Euskadi, and therefore we oppose, we do not agree with you. We do not accept your script or the content of your script. I don't accept being spotted as representatives of what. We are representatives of Basques and Basques who voted for us to represent them here, and whom we understand not only according to those who voted for us, but also of all of us. And that we understand the heterogeneity, the plurality of this society in such a way that we believe that subjecting it to a vote of a yes or a is not bad for Euskadi...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u20	End up, Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u21	... that subjecting the Basques to an unbearable tension that forces them to decide whether they want A or B is not good for Euskadi, because it is impossible to solve such a heterogeneous society, so plural that it must seek its fit between Basques first.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u22	End up, Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u23	And I'm done, Madam President. What has surprised us most is the attitude of the Basque Government, accepting and letting itself be dragged away by Bildu's political strategy. And we are also surprised that the Basque Nationalist Party is being dragged away by this political strategy. What are we doing in a self-government paper for? It is in these things, which we supposedly understand should be contained in a hypothetical reform of the Statute of Autonomy because of its dimension, because of its importance, that we are being robbed of the possibility of discussing them within the Office of Self-Government. I think it's amazing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u24	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u25	And I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u26	... you are eating the minutes of others."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u27	The question is... First, repeat congratulations to EH Bildu and Mr Arraiz for dragging the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party into their strategy. And second: what do we do in Self-Government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u29	Thank you, President. For I too have listened attentively to you in the first intervention and in the reply, but there is something that I do not like and I want to ask you a question. Is this the social agenda Bildu proclaimed from his mouth not many days ago that he wanted to install in Basque politics? In this, is that reflection that you have made, terrified by the electoral setback of the general elections with Podemos? Is this going to give concrete expression to the new policy that you want to put on the table in Euskadi, to remain bogged down in the old policy of always, in the chip that you are unable to change? I do not think that much corresponds to what you solemnly announced in that speech with this which you bring here and which does not respond at all, no matter how much you want to adorn it with social, political, economic, feminist, personal relations. You know that's a farce and a theater that you've set up and a little bit more. Because you will not want us to stick the kind of thing that approving this ghostly consultation means that immediately all the problems that have been in the world are solved and Basque society becomes a kind of happy Arcadia for dying of the right to decide. Because, in that sense, with you, who have had the opportunity to rule in Gipuzkoa, as you have remembered here, we would have at this time the happy Arcadia, after those four miserable years that you ruled in Gipuzkoa, and it seems that it has not been precisely that result of your political management. This in the end, Mr. Arraiz, is to distract, is to deceive. This is the demonstration that for today, unless you show me otherwise – and believe me I sincerely hope this was so – you are not able to change the chip. They are not able to connect with the real needs of Basque citizens, and they intend to continue deceiving them with lures, with oropel, which unfortunately hide the most obvious inability to change their way of doing politics. Because this is not the balm of Fierabrás, which solves from top to bottom all the problems that affect Basque citizens. It's not. Create new ones, as you know perfectly well. And then that kind of angelic affirmation that citizens can be asked above all, about anything, without any limit, and that they decide... So let this Parliament and Basque citizenship declare war on Andorra tomorrow, to set a rather pilgrim example, because it does not stop being any question about something that they might be interested in, and then we put it on the table. Anyway. You have made here a theater, by the way ill designed and worse executed, but nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Now that the dispute is over, the vote is made whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 47; the opposites, 26; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u31	Consequently, we consider the law's proposition. Next, vote. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u32	Good morning, everyone. You've seen what our parliamentary team voted for. Finally, we consent to consider this legal proposition, because at last we wish to assent to it. I won't argue with anyone because I don't have it, but I'd like to explain two or three reasons, because it's basically based on our position. I do not intend, why it would open a long chapter; At what point, in what time this legal proposal has been introduced, I'm sure it's already been sent to the University of Law, the whereabouts of Autogoberon Ponce... There are a lot of things to do. But what we see essentially is, that in this doctrine of the law there is a sort of appeal to the participation of the part, a very long one, which we believe to be very perverse and irregular, and which we do not like. We do not, therefore, agree with this proposal, why fountains can be a source of catallusia, another Andalucia (and this proposition also drinks from the law of Andalucia), and we prefer the family. Homes. It is well to be taken from the outside, but, in spite of the old source, if the Basque institutions are ours, the water which springs from this old source is always new. That's why we believe more in our strength and institutions. And so it is reported, that the same Government itself, either in the transparency of the institutions, institutions, and the public sector, or in the study of society, in this shelter of good government, between the 5th article, and the 66th, and the '80s', promises much better to be part of our opinion. And it's in this staff room. There is no need to go to Catalonia to discover new sources: Right this way. And there's another one, and there's another forum in the gym. The Giupic formula rule is that of participation in the year 2010, which was accepted six years ago, and which surpassed all the parts and all the galbahs that could be prescribed by the legislation. And, apart from the funk, that organization offers a different source, which has been productive, why we've known a last sentence five days ago: whether the division on the banishment of a municipal Council had a right to question them or not. But here the argument of the debate has taken place on the right of questioning from the village view. And this, in this law of 59 articles, is explained in an additional regulation, that the Autonomous member of Erdigo will make a declaration of the power of the State as a people. Then I don't know what the texts are read or what people interpret, but that's the only mention, and in an additional regulation. Hence, we think that, as a group, it has been the reason why our vote has been given to the discussion that the doors should never be closed to the dispute, and that the parts and supplications already proposed by the Basque Institutions, are, in our humble opinion, better than those which are received in this proposition of law. And looking at the future, and in that field of right to decide, we at least know not whether or not we have a companion in the world, we want to explain our plan here and there, from the Basque Act, or from there, from Madrid Congress, to determine his future...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u33	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u34	...those instruments which it will require-that is to say, these questions of the people-to encourage the legislature in order to be able to act within the law-that is to say, we are ready to do so. Before we did it, we'd ask if any other parlamentarian group would want to do that with the Jelt Party. That is to say, if these popular contacts can be made in this country, at least in order that there may be no excuse, we are engaged to maintain it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u35	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, introduced by Blanca Roncal Azanzala by Sozia Sozialists, concerning the mission of the nurse to Eukadin. Discipline and final resolution. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u36	Congressmen, Mr. President, señorías. We will begin by declaring the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group to the nursing collective, and assure our commitment to solve the serious problems that it has created at this time, and added to those that might have as a collective, the Royal Decree 954/2015, of nursing prescription. Because until then the nursing community had problems, obviously, because of their aspirations to collaborate more in health services, to which they wanted to contribute both health and management. They had, as we say, problems to move on these paths, but on that has fallen like a boulder the Decree 954/2015, which has come to aggravate a problem that initially intended to solve. Because nurses were prescribing drugs for certain problems through approved protocols and clinical guidelines, but they had no legal endorsement. It was supposed that these tasks would be given a legal and legal endorsement by the decree, which, by the way, worked with all interested persons, that is, the different leaders of the autonomous communities, the unions, general nursing schools, doctors... He had the support and collaboration of all, but at the last moment and with ease, that is, with ignorance of those who had previously worked on the draft, he was modified. He took away all powers from the nursing prescription, those that he had been applying for many years and that this decree was supposed to legally endorse, he was supposed to legally guarantee. Were they very important? Did they mean to undermine the doctor's power? I don't think so, that in the development of these competencies that were being exercised in the nursing profession they collaborated with the doctor again, and there is enough work to be able to distribute a small part to the nursing community. What was the nursing community doing in terms of prescription? They offered meds without a prescription. They proposed the medications to be incorporated into the cures, which is usually a nurse's competence. They offered medications in those cases where there was a protocol and clinical and care guides that they recognized. Or they also proposed the review and control of medications of chronic patients. Therefore, the nursing group made a great contribution to the national health systems and to the patients, who have been abruptly undermined by this contribution. Because now, with the royal decree, these protocols are not valid, neither are the clinical guides, and the nurse can only administer what is prescribed by the doctor and written in the clinical history. And whoever prescribes medication outside the decree will commit a crime. What happened in Euskadi? The counselor, until 27 January, had sent a message to the nurses announcing that there was a transitional period, that calm; let's say, colloquially, that they did not heed the royal decree, that there was a transitional period to not assume it and that nothing happened, because there was a policy of civil liability. But, of course, the case is not exactly so, because a civil liability policy cannot cover a criminal offence, which is personal and non-transferable; there is no civil liability that can solve and protect an offence. And that's not what I'm saying alone. It is that the state attorney, who has responded to the appeals filed by the General College of Nursing, strictly tells the school in his allegations: "You, the nurses, were allegedly committing an offence by prescribing medicines without legal protection, because legal protection is only available to doctors." It says so strictly. And that's called intruder. Therefore, from the royal decree there is no transitional period worth ("Make as if there is no royal decree, continue working, that Osakidetza guarantees to you a policy of civil liability"). Of course, the civil liability policy is very good, but the decree must be complied with. And I say that until the 27th because, abruptly, on the 27th of January, the counselor meets with different nursing representatives and tells them that he has decided to make the appeal. We find it very interesting to make this resource, but until January 27th you were in which there was no need. Why do they change on January 27th? Why was it going to be discussed in Parliament? Why did the presidents of the three nursing schools come to the Health Commission? And it's still a mere announcement, there's no appeal filed. What was this called? Positioning? I don't know exactly. Yesterday, at the appearance, the three presidents of the three professional colleges of the historical territories told us what they thought, and with the legal advice they had, the situation of the nursing, which I will summarise: lack of legal capacity to prescribe – what we already knew – and they ask Osakidetza respect, not to ask them to perform functions for which they do not have legal capacity, because, as we say, they involve the commission of a crime and there is no civil liability policy that can compensate. As we say, so has the state's attorney. His words were exactly that in the allegation. It accuses nursing professionals of having committed alleged criminal offences, even continuing, which may correspond to the type of offence of intrusion. Who saves this? Of course, the victims are the patients of the National Health Service, and, of course, the managers and representatives of the national health services, who have suddenly lost the great contribution of the nursing community directed directly at patients, treatments and vaccines. Because the state attorney says that vaccines can be skipped, that nurses can put them if they want to, but vaccines (e.g. influenza vaccines) that are targeted at staff, in principle, at risk require an assessment before they get put, and decide whether that patient who already has a diagnosis of respiratory failure and who has been coughing is in a position to receive the flu vaccine. Then nurses cannot prescribe in flu vaccination campaigns either, suggesting that there is a health authority that has previously declared it. In short, a great harm, a lack of respect for all those who worked on the first draft of the royal decree, a lack of respect also towards the nursing community, towards their professional preparation, towards the great contribution that has been made to the patients throughout the national territory and in all the autonomous communities. That is why we in the Committee on Health and in this Parliament have agreed to sign an amendment, which summarises you in several points. First point: "The Basque Parliament rejects Royal Decree 954/2015 and requests the Spanish Government to suspend that decree". Because, although the remedy is a very interesting and timely and important measure, in the end what will resolve is the repeal of the decree. Second point: "The Basque Parliament calls on the Basque Government to speed up the announced appeal against this decree and to work in defence of our competences and in defence of the functions of nursing." Third: "Parliament undertakes, through the Committee on Health and Consumer Affairs, to contact the health committees of the autonomous parliaments of the rest of the State in order to send a joint request for derogation among all". In other words, we do not only place duties on the Government; we also place duties on all parliamentarians. Fourth: "Parliament urges the Health Adviser to communicate to medical schools and medical professionals working in Osakidetza, as he has done with the nursing community, the position of the Advisor and other directors of Osakidetza of rejection regarding Royal Decree 954/2015." Fifth: "The Parliament urges the Government to use all legal and regulatory means to ensure that the nursing activity continues to have the legal certainty it has had and that its professional practice is developed with all guarantees, without being forced to engage in conduct that puts them at risk both personally and professionally." Sixth: "The Parliament urges the Department of Health to present at this session a plan that includes all the functions that the nurse will perform in Euskadi. This plan should explain the role that nursing will play in specialty consultations, both in hospitals and in outpatient clinics that carry out specialized consultations." We have already seen in the inquiry that in the area of primary care the nurses had made a great deal of progress in the nursing competition; they carried out autonomous consultations and that was a task that had to be generalized and developed in the field of specialized care. That is why we are now asking you to include in the plan the tasks, objectives and plans that you are going to do so that the nurse can carry out her task in the specialized care. "And, likewise, this plan must specify the nurse participation and its role in the structural organization and management of the OSI, incorporating this collective into the decision-making bodies." These requests were made, most of them yesterday by the three representatives of the nursing schools of the three territories. We join the members who have signed this amendment. We are grateful for the input and improvement of the initial proposals, and we ask the others who have not participated in the drafting of the amendment, or have not signed it for reasons they consider appropriate, which, if they want and can, will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u38	Mrs. President. Good morning, everyone. We could still apply the legislation of the government in Spain as a legislation of stupidity and stupidity. There have been horrible laws and decrees which they have accepted, one after the other. All our decisions, against our powers, were strictly attacked by the decision of the Nafar institutions. The only thing that can be remembered is, that Mr. Urquijo, the delegates of the government, are to appeal to a thousand persons established; And, as if this were very little, the rights of all the citizens in front of them could always be improved, even if it were true, but it must be confessed that they work well by putting their hand into the cares and duties of professional professionals in the country of Havana systems. And we have a 23rd decree of the last October of 2015, known as the decree of the medical corps of nurses. The Spanish Government, which had hitherto been discussed with the local agents, had abandoned what had been agreed upon, and accepted the decree which was mentioned, whether Spanish or euscal, or eucalyca's health system. There's no problem where there's a problem. By despising the profession of nurses, their abilities are not confessed, nor are they taken notice of. In order that the nurses should stop doing what they were doing until now, or, in other words, to be able to do what they had done for the sake of a doctor, to write, to fit his medications, and to keep track of the patient. The practice of the nurses, the practice, the practice of the nurses, had become illegal. What are we talking about? We are speaking of the practice of Matrons, of the ordinary practice of giving births; we speak of breakings, of the care given in old age, of domestic service, of emergency, of labour. It's also difficult to bring forward programs that are recorded on the health plan. It's a problem. This description eventually encourages impacts between bodies in the health system with different profiles. Instead of overraning Corporativism, instead of overcoming the medium, the multidilin team does the opposite, the hierarchy and class preserve it. Thus this decree tends to the heart of the health system: it slows the daily, can increase the waitlist... And it will affect the people too. We're not only talking about specific professionals, but it has a direct influence on the working of our health system, the operation, the efficiency. And this just happened when we were talking to the nurses about another role, one more function, more care, giving them another level. At least in theory, because in practice we've seen things weren't that way. So the problem between our hands is serious, it's very serious, and it's urgent to find a solution. And we also want to help in this solution, and we want to make our contribution. Yesterday, if we don't count with them, we're not going anywhere and we won't find a solution. And, of course, we'll have to be a doctor and we'll have to take care of it. We've got to take care of them all. We see, therefore, that it is necessary for us to make use of the legislative and legislative power of any of our contributions, and to give them a frame of law. We know we're not going to get suspense immediately, and we have to work for immediate suspension, but we need a legal frame here, because we're finally talking about people, and people need to be protected by personal and professional steps. We've got to see the medical department, as the chairman of the medical department has sent a report to the nurses in integrated sanitary organization, to send it to the doctors too. Even doctors must be made clear what the attitude of this medical department is, and how they must act from now on, while we don't repair things from the roots. And our contribution was also... Because we don't just want to put the ball on the roof of the Medical Department. We are also prepared to be in the right way, and we are willing to commit ourselves from the medical committee of the other autonomy parliaments, to communicate to the medical committees of the other Autonomy parliaments, to agree and in a manner to supply the demand for the suspension of this decree to the Spanish Government. And that's what we need to do as soon as possible, and we should get back to work from tomorrow on representatives of the Medical Committee. And we assume that it is connected with the heart of the decree and that it is necessary that the medical department should be enlightened and received on a plan, before June, which are the functions of the nurses. I mean, when we say that we have to give the nurses the proper rank, that they must be in decisions, that other functions should be given them, what are we talking about? That must be defined. And the sooner that's done it, the better for everyone. And this must be a way of adapting the workings which are now at Osar to future conditions, to produce multidilin equipment, to transcend those collisions between the different bodies at this moment, and to make them the practice that conform to new times. So we're satisfied with the middle-class agreement that we've agreed on today among the teams. But what we want is that we don't stay on paper, as fast as we can, the problem we've got in our hands, because the problem we're dealing with isn't of any consequence, because it's complicated and it's us that we can solve it. So our team will be on top of it, and he will work as soon as he can to make this suspense come to reality, and to penetrate into the other properties here and become reality. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. On the one hand, I'm glad that at last, in the text presented by the Social Party, the debate has been determined, because in the interpelation we saw another debate. I'm supposed to say that it wasn't so much in Mrs. Roncal's interference, but we agreed with what we were proposing, because it was said that the Eukko would have to run a special plan for nurses, and I think that this proposal would be appropriate for us to specify the role of nurses and to specify the functions of nurses. After all, we all know how important this collective is in a public health system, in medical systems, and in difficulties. He said that, on the one hand, I am grateful that the text of the motion tabled by Mrs Roncal, by the Socialist Party, focused on the debate that we had the opportunity to hear in the inquiry, because in the inquiry we heard a rifraffe between Mrs Roncal and the adviser on Mendaro and the resignation of the Director of Nursing and the specific situation at this centre. I therefore believe that Mrs Roncal's initiative to focus the debate on the request to the Basque Government for a plan specifying and concreteizing the functions and role of nursing has been timely. It has not been so throughout the defence, the debate on the concrete initiative, and that is why we in the amendment we are presenting are focusing on the nursing plan, with which we agree. We agree that the Basque Government should draw up a nursing plan to specify the role of nursing, with the new functions entrusted to nursing, the evolution of the role of nursing in general health. I would also like to use this intervention to support the nursing group, as I believe this group has always done in this Parliament through numerous initiatives and also in permanent contact with the group in particular and with the trade unions representing these professionals. We are convinced that the role of nursing is fundamental in the health system, throughout the whole care process and in the specific areas of primary care, health promotion, prevention, rehabilitation, specialized care, emergencies, home care, which we see is becoming increasingly important due to the number of dependent people, due to the number of multipathological patients who need care at home. The importance of nursing also in the continuity of care and in the coordination of the different levels of care. But, having said this, I also have to say that on 23 October 2015 the royal decree referred to in the intervention, which regulates the indication, use and authorisation of the dispensation of medicinal products and sanitary products for human use by nurses, was given a green light. It was a jurisdiction provided for in the 2009 legislation, currently covered by the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Sanitary Devices, Royal Decree 1/2015 of 24 July. With this royal decree, the capacity to prescribe prescription drugs remains with doctors, dentists and podiatrists in the field of their competence, as provided for in the 2006 Law on Guarantees. There hasn't been anything new here. But it must be said that the novelty is that nurses have been given powers with two types of concrete actions where there was a normative vacuum, a gap, and therefore there was also a very concrete lack of regulation. It has therefore been legislated. And what this royal decree has done is to legislate where there was a legal vacuum: By empowering the autonomous indication and authorization of the dispensation of medicinal products not subject to medical prescription and medical devices by means of a dispensation order. And empowering to indicate, use and authorize certain medicinal products subject to medical prescription, once it is regulated the application of protocols and guides of clinical and care practice, of joint elaboration, agreed by the collegial organizations of doctors and nurses and validated by the Agency of Quality of the National Health System. This faculty shall be monitored by the healthcare professional who has determined the protocol or clinical guidance for the purpose of its suitability to the protocol, as well as for the safety of the process and the effectiveness of the treatment. Therefore, I would like to stress that this royal decree obeys and responds to a historical demand of professionals, and that it is part of the agreements for the sustainability and quality of the National Health System signed by the Ministry of Health, the General Council of Nursing and the Satse union in July 2013. It regulates both the development of protocols and guidelines for clinical practice and the accreditation of professionals. I am not going to expand further on the specific aspects of the royal decree, because I understand that all of you have also had the opportunity to read it. But it must be said that these professionals will now enjoy, after accreditation, the competence to use and indicate non-prescription medicines and sanitary devices, which so far has not been recognised. And that the competence for the indication and use of medicinal products subject to medical prescription is established taking into account the safety of the process and of the patient in question, which I think is very important, because I think that is what needs to be taken into account when regulating this type of issue. This is protocolized and requires the treatment instructions to be included in the clinical history, according to Law 41/2002, on patient autonomy. Therefore, we believe that this royal decree has sought to improve the legal and safety situation of nursing staff. We believe that this is something that undoubtedly contributes to improving the legal certainty not only of the professionals, but also of the patient and of the whole chain of the care process. As I have mentioned throughout my intervention, aspects that were not regulated were regulated: the regulation of the indication, use and authorization of the supply of medicines, which was a historical demand. It was necessary – and I believe that Mrs Roncal's reference to the State Advocate's report has also been very graphic – a normative development to protect the professional responsibility of nurses and this group. And I think it does not conform to the truth to point out that with this royal decree it ceases to develop or that the nursing functions are curtailed, addressing a question of legality and legal certainty. It does seem important to me, and before I finish, make a precision. When a patient needs to be vaccinated (because he or she is going to take a trip, because he or she is going to be exposed to an epidemiological risk), it is a professional who, with prescription competence (in accordance with Article 79.1 of Royal Decree 1/2015, consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of the Drug), is usually a doctor, who prescribes a vaccine; and if it is injectable, he or she is given by a nurse, since when it is a prescription drug, he or she specifies it. But I think we need to differentiate this assumption from what is a vaccination campaign, such as that of the flu, when there is an epidemiological risk and the relevant instruction is given by the health authority accordingly. Therefore, when the population is vaccinated as part of a vaccination campaign, such as that of the flu, it acts as a result and result of a decision by the health authority, because an epidemiological risk has been detected and in order to preserve public health, which does not require a prior diagnosis, because there are no patients and since the most exposed cohorts to that risk are already identified. In the case of influenza, persons over the age of 65 and health professionals are identified in contact with the population, who are the ones who must be immunized by order of the health authority, which in this case is additional to that order or optional prescription. Also, although I will leave it for my second intervention, a reference to all the actions that have been carried out by the ministry in relation to the protection of this group, with also strengthening its role in the National Health System. In conclusion, however, I would like to say that we have been aware of a compromise amendment. We agree and will ask for the split vote by points; we would ask for the split vote of the last point, since it was the subject of the initiative, the elaboration by the department of a plan that would collect the nursing functions. That is what we have included in our amendment. We agree with that point, which, as I stress again, we believe was the subject of the initiative, and we will therefore vote in favour of that point. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u41	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians. Mr. Orber River, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u42	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, we also want to make it clear that our team rejects the Decret 954/2015 king, which has become more familiar than the royal decree of the nurses. And therefore we confirm the attitude which the chief physician of the Medical Department has set forth over and over again. As the health department has more than once remarked, we also have a good view of the ability to describe nurses, to penetrate into the autonomy of professional nurses, and we are in favor of improving their abilities or functions. So we want to show our support to all the nurses who are working in the health system. Therefore we cannot accept the Description of the 954/2015 King, nor by the content of it, nor by the established procedure of accepting it. For Alonso, the Minister of Health, is accused of being guilty of another torpedo of the Ministry of Health. Therefore, our group is in favour of deepening the autonomy of nursing professionals and also improving their capacities and functions. And, like the Basque Government, we have always been in favour of the prescription of nursing in a legal text. Consequently, we are absolutely against this royal decree, because we do not share its content, let alone the procedure followed by Minister Alonso for its approval. In fact, the Minister of Health did not fulfill the commitment made by his predecessor to regulate the prescription of nursing in this legislature. Rather, it has regulated it, but by setting traps and approving at the last moment a text that was not agreed at the Interterritorial Health Council with the approval of all the agents involved. Because it cannot be that in the last step of the processing of the decree the text is unilaterally modified, introducing paragraphs and contents that did not have the approval of the autonomous communities or of the representatives of the infirmary, causing, of course, their indignation at feeling undervalued and betrayed regarding the word given. From the very beginning, therefore, since he learned that the royal decree had been admitted, the Department of Health has been publicly opposed, and contrary to the proceedings, and contrary to the consequences of the alterations introduced in the royal decree. As we know, the chief physician informed him in his letter to Minister Alonso on the 28th of December. He also demanded that the royal decree be rendered powerless, and that at first it should return the texture agreed upon by the commission of the territory. But, as the Spanish Government has continued to listen to the demands until this very day, it has finally been decided to introduce a resource to the Supreme Court, this very week. The same path has been followed by many other autonomy brothers and several unions and the Chief Council of the Nurses. So we join in the attitude of the Medical Department and the New Year's Department about this thing. In fact, yesterday morning we had the opportunity to listen to the three members of the three coleggios of the Basque Autonomy nurses at Erdigo at the Medical Department, and they also confessed that the medical Department had been on behalf of the nurse's preparation and against the mode of tramigating this royal procession. We think it's a pity what's happened. Problem or conflict has arisen in a subject that was well-directed with normalness and peaceably directed. Therefore, by all means, we would like to ask the Spanish Government to cancel the application of the decree. It still depends on him to do that. But while we're doing it, we're protecting the appeal announced by the RedMork. In fact, it's unacceptable that the Minister of Health should do so. The Council of the Common-wealths of the Common-wealths, approved beforehand, and determined to change the third article of the text which the Council of the State had given him. Besides, when there were only a few days to be admitted, and not to mention anything to the agents of the medical service, he knew that these were to be the agents who would have to apply them. The most remarkable change, as has been said, is that the three-2 articles of the decree are to be done by the doctors beforehand and inevitably Diagnostics in order for professional nurses to be able to prescribe medicines. This new condition puts a stop to the usual practice of medical and professional nursery. In fact, until now nurses could have prescribed certain medicines without difficulty, in order to give an example, and in the previous round as Mrs. Ubera also mentioned, in the dressing-rooms against the flu, and so on. Besides this, the royal decree invaded even our medical camp at Eromia. And what's very serious is that he's having legal security problems with professional nurses in their daily work. It is therefore necessary that nurses should take measures which, in their ordinary practice, will secure their safety. In this sense, we believe that the Department of Health ought to direct all the political and legal means and legal resources which all the professional members of the Osacans may be assured of their safety and defence, in order to face the responsibilities which might be due to their conduct. For what we want to do is to continue the state as we have hitherto done, and to continue, after all, to provide the proper service which Osar has hitherto given us. And, therefore, we want to continue to provide a good, quality and safe service for the users of our health service, but also ensuring the safety of all Osakidetza professionals. For all these reasons, we believe it is very important to unite as much force in this matter as possible, in order to demand it more loudly, to abandon this royal decree to the Spanish Government as soon as possible. And so we have decided to agree to the middle course with the EH Collectors and the Socialist Group, because we agree with the present planning, and because we believe that it is absolutely necessary to make this decree cease as much as possible. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u43	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. A group that hasn't run any corrections. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u44	Very briefly. Only to say that we share the fundamentals of what is reflected in that compromise amendment, and I will therefore vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u45	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Now, when you're ready to answer, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u46	Yeah. If I may, from the seat, Your Honor. Only to ratify our joy, which we share with the rest of the groups that have signed this transaction. It seems to us opportune for all of us to get to work. We even appreciate and believe that it is important for the group supporting the Government to be also in this common and consensual project, because the duties to which we have urged the Department of Health to comply, we assume, will assume them immediately. And to the rest of the tasks that we have put ourselves on, we also have to put ourselves on immediately. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. From EH Collect, Mrs. Ubera.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u48	Yes, from your offer, Madam President. Just a couple of things to answer Mrs Garrido. How is it possible for all the years to make a proclamation, to answer a request, and to make everyone angry when he has answered it? Once you've gone to answer a proclamation, it's important to tell it to the people who do it. It seemed to me that there was an agreement with the health professional agents, and that understanding turned its back on him. Therefore this decree does not answer the proclamation. And the best thing that can be done is to leave things when they are. The best work, and the best thing a government can do, is not to cause any trouble. And, therefore, we should ask the Popular party to leave the laws, the decrees, and the production of affairs to cease. Because the best government in the end is a government that doesn't cause trouble. And we have seen that the Popular Party has brought us nothing but trouble both to the Basque institutions and to the people in general.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u50	From this group we are not going to go into disqualifications, which I believe are motivated more by other party interests and for throwing balls out than by focusing the debate on what is really important, where I think there is a point in common also with the People's Party, which has not signed the compromise amendment, which is that the Basque Government should draw up – it is true that at the end of the parliamentary term – a plan in which the functions and role of nursing are specified and concrete. I have emphasized the importance of the role of nursing throughout the care process. But I was left unattended in the first intervention that I believe it is fair to recognize all the agreements and measures that have been promoted by the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality related to nursing. I think there's been a lot of them. Even this last royal decree that tries to solve a void, a gap, and that was a historical demand. I think it has been graphic, and I repeat, Mrs Roncal's reference to the State Advocate's report, supporting the allegations, where it is clearly stated that there were issues that were not regulated. Therefore, what this royal decree brings is greater legal certainty not only to professionals (all professionals, nursing staff), but also to the patient and to the entire care chain. And I'm going to refer to the agreements, very briefly: Agreement of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality with the General Council of Nursing and the Satse Union, to which I referred in my intervention, in July 2013: Pact for Health, Human Resources and Clinical Management. Creation of the State Register of Health Professionals, by Royal Decree 640/2014 of 25 July. Establishment of the homogeneous catalogue of equivalences of the categories of statutory staff of health services, by means of another royal decree. Regulation of diplomas in advanced accreditation and accreditation by means of another royal decree. Establishment of accreditation requirements of multiprofessional teaching units for the training of specialists in family and community nursing. Establishment of the professional forum together with the doctors, in March 2015, with the aim of contributing to the improvement of the quality of care and the conditions of the exercise of these professions. Preparation and publication of the biosafety guide for health professionals. And regulation of this royal decree, which we believe is absolutely necessary to establish a regulation where it was not and to give that legal certainty that this collective lacked in the development of its functions. I have made a request – I hope it will be accepted – to be able to vote on the last point, which I believe was the subject of this debate, which was the elaboration of this nursing plan, a subject still pending today by this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u51	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. He won't speak a word... Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote. Dots. The first five, and then the last one, right? Okay. We're going to vote with the Basque Socialists, the first five points of the semi-correction by the EH Collectors and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters, 62; counters 10; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u52	So the first five points have been accepted. Then we'll vote for the final point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u53	The final point is unanimously accepted. Third point in theme list: "Motion, myria Llanos Gómez, member of the Popula, presented to us as an alliance against jihadism. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Miss Llanos has the word to present and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u54	By the permission of the President, we have received only half-way text and Spanish. I'd like to order it before the vote... Just in case. To make him know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u55	He'll be here before the vote. Thank you. Follow me, Mine, whenever you like.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. I want to begin this intervention by saying that on this earth we are well aware of what terrorism is causing. Today, in this Parliament, we have reminded a colleague, Gregorio Ordoñez, a victim of terrorist fanaticism. This Parliament has witnessed the effects of terrorism on a democratic society and has repeatedly suffered the shock that leaves the unwiseness of those who commit themselves to using violence and to taking human lives forward without changing themselves. The terrorist trail has left nearly a thousand people killed, life projects truncated and many families broken, destroyed for life because of the madness of fanatics who for years wanted to subject this society to bombs and pistols. In Euskadi it has been up to us to face these kinds of situations for many years. This Parliament has also witnessed the enormous tear that terrorism has caused in Basque society and the important response that democratic institutions give to it, the important response that Democrats give to it. We have the task, as a society, of being able to make a true account of what has happened on this earth, of making a account that does justice to those who suffered the terrorist damage and that signals to the culprits, who are the terrorists; the only culprits are the terrorists. Because that is the only way to prevent terrorism from flourishing: by recognizing the victims and pointing out the culprits. And the way to overcome terrorism is to overcome it with democratic determination, not yielding to the violent, planting faces on the street, and Basque society has been able to overcome terrorism and to do so with determination, courage, dignity. He has overcome it by striving to gain spaces for the violent and to always stand ready to defend the freedom and dignity of people above anything else. When this firm and constant step of Basque society has been accompanied by institutional support, unity of all democratic parties, the step has been much greater, the step has been enormous and decisive. A unity that was made clear in the Ajuria Enea Pact, a pact that expressly showed that the Basque Government was the call to lead the political action and measures taken against terrorism. Subsequently, the Pact for Freedom and Counter-Terrorism was signed, a pact that was also vital in the fight against ETA, and it is true that there were parties that did not want to be in that pact, such as the Basque Nationalist Party. And that unity of action should also take place in the face of jihadist terrorism, because terrorism does not understand borders or times. Terrorism is like wearing a hat and hood or carrying a turban. It appears where and when fanatics decide to open up in the only way they know: with bombs and with shots. Terrorism appears where and when it can do harm, because that is its only, its main objective: to do harm, to sow violence and to sow fear. Europe has become one of the main objectives of jihadist terrorism, yet another expression of fanaticism that criminals are preparing to create chaos to harm and reap human lives. A bloody expression of this fanaticism was the attack in the centre of Paris on 13 November, which claimed 130 deaths and more than 350 injuries. As we said in the inquiry that gave rise to this motion, Friday, November 13th is going to be a difficult time to forget. That Friday all of Europe, all of Spain and all of Euskadi were shocked. Terrorist attacks were happening and the number of fatalities was growing minute by minute. But he didn't stay there; then came Mali, Egypt, Tunisia, and we started the year with more attacks. As I said, Europe, Spain and Euskadi are also at the forefront of terrorists. The response to that Paris attack by French society, as in other parts of Europe and the world, was exemplary, going out on the street to defend coexistence in peace and freedom, to make clear its rejection of terrorism and to show that it is not willing to take a step back from the violent. This reaction of French society, as I say, also had a response in other important cities and also in Euskadi. But that response needs to be accompanied by a unanimous, clear and strong position of democratic institutions, a unanimous and clear response of democratic parties. And for that purpose, it was with the signing of the state pact against jihadist terrorism, which was signed by the President of the Government and the leader of the Socialist Party weeks after the attacks on French magazine Charlie Hebdo and subsequently joined by other political forces. It was the political obligation to strengthen the position of rejection of terrorism expressed on the street, to take all kinds of measures jointly (judicial, police and legal) against terrorism. An agreement, as I say, which has subsequently been signed by other political forces that have believed that there is a need to strengthen the institutional position against terrorists. The social repudiation that terrorists provoke must be accompanied by the unity of the political parties that defend coexistence in peace and freedom, must be accompanied without excuses for not carrying out that accompaniment. I said this when I asked Mr Lehendakari and I repeat it now: we consider that to be a fundamental step. Because, as I said at the beginning of my speech, we in Euskadi know very well how much progress we have made in the fight against terrorism when we all went together, and that example has to serve as a stimulus to defend that yes, that political unity is important, that unity of action is important, that it is important for all institutions to agree not only on the rejection and condemnation that society is expressing on the street, but also on measures to act against this kind of terrorism. We cannot understand, because it is unreasonable, that this House would take 11 days to condemn the Paris bombings, and that, when it did, it did so absolutely insufficiently. No other issues can be put forward to express this condemnation, or party political interests or other interests, when we talk about dealing with violence and terrorism. Because it cannot be claimed that when it comes to terrorism, there is no reference to the terrorism that the Basques have suffered. One cannot pretend to avoid contextualizing terrorism in Euskadi. One cannot pretend that anyone who appears to have an interested amnesia pretends to turn it into a collective amnesia. It is true that there are still those in this House who, without wishing to acknowledge the terrorist past of this land, want to continue without condemning that past, and for this reason they do not condemn others present. They continue in a shameful silence that leads them not to want to mention it, to not want to make any reference to it. And others should not be accomplices to that silence. Because that past doesn't disappear because some people don't want to mention it. That bloody past existed, that past we have suffered, that past is there and that past it is necessary to recognize it and tell it as it was, without distorting it. And in that past we could see that the important and fundamental thing is the unity of the Democrats in the fight against ETA, that the important thing is to accompany the democratic step and defense of the freedoms that society is demonstrating on the street, which were very important pacts such as that of Ajuria Enea, but also the Pact for Freedoms and Counter-Terrorism. We do not understand that in situations like these there is anyone who prefers to stand aside, because these situations require compromise, the same one that has demonstrated Basque society for years. They demand to act together, and that is what the anti-jihadist pact stands for, to act together. Situations like this require this House to express clearly that, as representatives of a society that has suffered terrorist fanaticism for too many years, it feels in a special way the aggressions perpetrated by jihadist terrorism, strongly condemns all forms of violence and intolerance and shows its commitment to the civic values that place people's life and freedom above any creed or cause. That was the first point of our motion, which has been amended in a compromise amendment signed with the UPyD Group and the Socialist Group, which I would like to thank now. Secondly, we believe that we must make a pronouncement on the consideration of Europe as an area of dialogue, respect and cooperation between different people, fleeing from all totalitarianism and fanaticism. And finally, in our motion to the lehendakari to urge non-signatory forces to join the jihadist terrorism pact. This point has also been changed in this compromise amendment, in which the Spanish Government is urged to obtain meeting points, and also to the lehendakari that these same meeting points be held in Euskadi between the different political formations, but with the same aim, with the aim of bringing together all and all the actions to be taken against jihadist terrorism. It is time to make it clear whether we want to participate proactively in the fight against jihadist intolerance or whether we do not want to make a common front against that terrorism. It's so clear and so blunt: whether you want to stand up or if you want to profile. Because we do not understand that there is anyone who prefers to profile himself, who does not want to leave his signature on an agreement that he seeks is to respond in a unitary and firm way to terrorism, and less, as I say, when in Euskadi we have endured terrorism for so many years. No one would understand that the passage of the institutions on which this political agreement depends is shorter than that of the citizens, because in the face of terrorism, it is called as it is called, it is worn hood or turban, it comes from here or there, it is fought with political and institutional unity. And that is the objective pursued by the signatories of the jihadist agreement, and some will have to explain what they do not share with that purpose that pursues that agreement of the pact against jihadist terrorism. That is why it was important for the lehendakari to promote the incorporation of the non-signatory political forces into that agreement, as an instrument of union of all democrats. We asked him in the interpellation, he refused to do so, and now we ask him again. We are confident that the motion will go ahead and we are confident that whoever holds the government responsibility for one of the main Basque institutions will be able to live up to it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u57	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u58	Thank you, President. I find it interesting one of the last things Mrs Llanos has put forward, and it is to ask the Basque Nationalist Party to explain in the parliamentary seat the reasons why it does not join the anti-jihadist pact, so that the rest of the groups can explain what ours are to join and we can criticize, where appropriate, the reasons or excuses that the Basque Nationalist Party may have for not signing that anti-jihadist pact. Because some group may argue that this pact has certain shortcomings or that it is insufficient, and any political party can explain the reasons why it considers that this anti-jihadist pact does not apply to the objectives it seeks to achieve. But what I am asking of Mr Egibar or the Basque Nationalist group is to explain perfectly well the reasons why it does not join the anti-jihadist pact. I am fundamentally in agreement with the motion put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, although I thought it could be improved, and we have tried to do so through our full amendment. What was it that we wanted to express above all, and unlike the rest of the groups or the People's Party, in this whole amendment? The need for the anti-jihadist pact not to be a mere propaganda photo. And this seems important to us. Perhaps we have not managed to incorporate this reflection or this idea into this compromise amendment, beyond our agreement with it. But I think that is what we wanted to reflect in our entire amendment, the idea that the anti-jihadist pact is not a mere propaganda photo, that it does not stay there. Beyond the importance of generic political unity, we believe that this pact must have a clear content and objectives to achieve. And we have expressed this in our amendment, and in particular in the last point of it, when we say that this pact must serve primarily to secure the material, human and budgetary resources really needed and the development of an ambitious and comprehensive counter-terrorism strategy, which does not limit the fight against such a serious threat to mere propaganda photos. Of course, we have not pointed out in that amendment all the measures that should include that pact, but I think we have left them pointed out in that amendment. It is, by the way, what UPyD came to say during 2015, when in principle it was critical of that pact and when it finally signed it. We believe it is important not only to say that it is against jihadist terrorism, but above all to increase material, human and all kinds of resources to meet that challenge. Some clear ideas I want to express in this rostrum. We must make visible, first of all, a strong and wide-ranging condemnation – at least of the democratic forces of this Parliament – of jihadist terrorism and its cruel methods. We must show closeness to the victims or potential victims, to all those people today threatened or directly persecuted, or massacred by terrorists, whether these elderly, women or children, young or older, homosexuals, ethnic or religious minorities, free persons or people who simply passed by when they decided to put a bomb or pull the trigger. We must carry out an unwavering, uncomplex defence of the democratic system that we enjoy and that has made it so difficult for us to achieve, of human rights, of political pluralism, of the coexistence of citizens between people that we can think differently, to speak a different language or to profess different religions, but that we all deserve the same respect, since we are all people. We must carry out a defence without fissure or doubt of the freedom of expression, of equality between men and women, of the common law which affects everyone – regardless of our beliefs, and which must be respected by all – of religious freedom, of freedom of thought and of freedom in order to try to build our own life. And, more specifically and in relation to the anti-jihadist pact already signed by the main Spanish political parties and to which UPyD finally joined, we want, as I said at the beginning, not to be a simple propaganda photo, not to be left there, beyond political unity and reflecting it is also important. We want it not to be based solely on generic promises and not solely on words. It must have a content. It must ensure sufficient material, human and budgetary resources. It must provide our police officers, all of them, with the appropriate means to be able to carry out their work properly and with all guarantees. It must articulate a global strategy, with the help of the rest of the European countries – because this is not a local problem – and of the democratic countries in our environment. You must go to the causes too. It should encourage and work on prevention. He must perfect his intelligence. It must ensure that the law is enforced with all guarantees. It must also include action in origin, to solve the problems that exist in those countries where jihadist terrorism comes from. It must include an intense pedagogy on the various facets of the risks and threats posed by radical Islamism, and it must obviously work on education, human values and democratic principles. It must therefore act in the short term, but also in the medium term and in the long term, to prevent jihadist terrorism, to prevent terrorism from progressing. Finally, as Rogelio Alonso wrote about a year ago on this issue, "This challenge requires courage, leadership and a real political will to develop an anti-terrorist strategy that does not limit the fight against such a serious threat to mere propaganda photos", an expression we wanted to include in our amendment. This challenge, therefore, requires the maximum possible unity, political will and height of sight to defend democracy and prevent, in turn, that the democracy we enjoy is not weakened or weakened. It is understandable that the EH Bildu group does not join any initiative to deal with any kind of terrorism, taking into account its recent history in relation to ETA terrorism. In any case, I believe it is important that the Basque Nationalist Party join this initiative with its vote as a democratic political party. I think it is important that the Basque Nationalist Party join this initiative, even though it has not tabled an amendment for unknown reasons. And if the Basque Nationalist Party is willing to vote against this initiative or opposes the anti-jihadist pact, what I ask the spokesman to intervene is to explain perfectly the reasons why he does not agree with this anti-jihadist pact. That it does not use excuses such as the permanent, reviewable prison, something that does not enable this pact, but the Penal Code. Do not use excuses and explain perfectly well what are the reasons why you do not join the pact or vote in favour of this initiative. We join this initiative and join the anti-jihadist pact as an element that can be useful in addressing the terrorists and that immense challenge that affects us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u59	Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u60	Thank you, President. Each group is very free to bring matters to this House for debate that it considers most appropriate, but, frankly, there are some whose usefulness we do not have, especially if we think about what this Parliament can and cannot do and what Basque citizens demand from us. The position of the Basque Socialists and of socialism in general on the response to the threat posed by violent jihadism throughout the world is well known. His barbaric attacks remind us one day of yes and another of what he supposes. We support all measures that are endorsed by the UN Security Council or the European Union, and we are in the agreement to strengthen unity in defence of freedoms and against terrorism, better known as the anti-jihadist pact, which was signed last February and ratified in July. We subscribe to it with complete conviction, despite not agreeing with the concreteness that the People's Party introduced in one of its points, because we have always been against those who intend to boost our coexistence and have sought the most appropriate way to deal with them from respect for the law. We did it with ETA terrorism, we did it with those who use Islam as an alibi for barbarism, and we will do it with any other similar threat. Now, Mrs Llanos, I have to say that my group does not understand very well what it intends to do in bringing the motion you have tabled to this stage. I would like to recall that the reaffirmation he proposes in his motion to reject the terrorism of ISIS, Al Qaeda and its branches, and the appeal to parties that have not wanted to join the pact, comes from an inquiry – which you recalled – to the Basque Government about its intentions to participate in measures and operations against jihadist cells. The issues are related, of course, but we do not see a logical consequence. And although I appreciate – believe me, I sincerely say this – your eloquence and your affection, I do not think it is enough for your lordships in Bildu to sign today without any specific reason a statement that they refused in connection with the serious attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine or those in Paris. They're gonna keep feeling alluded to. Similarly, I do not believe that those who have avoided all the occasions they have had in a year to join the anti-jihadist pact will do so now, even if you resort to the good offices of the lehendakari. Frankly, I do not see Mr Urkullu very receptive to this order. It must therefore be concluded that the Group of the European People's Party has wanted to do as other times witnessing, seeking to attract the spotlight, with an issue always very grateful from the media point of view. And now it does not seem to us the most conducive strategy for forging approximations and consensus. And I doubt – if I may say so – his good faith and that of his party, especially after seeing the minister of foreign affairs in office, Mr. García Margallo, manipulate the anti-jihadist pact yesterday to try to internationally discredit Pedro Sánchez's attempt to form a government, to do what Mr. Rajoy has not even bothered to try. That's responsibility, yes, ma'am, with big words, isn't it? That's a sense of state. That is to leave out of the political struggle the great consensus, something that is proclaimed in theory and which is then not fulfilled in practice. I would remind you that this is not the first time your party has done this, because you did not hesitate to use the fight against terrorism and the victims to weaken the political adversary, in this case, again, the Socialist Party. But if it is to emphasize the obvious, I will repeat that the Socialists will continue to be in all agreements to defend democratic coexistence, in a clean, committed, responsible manner, without electoral temptations like those you suffer every time. First, out of conviction, and then, because we consider that in times of shock, of threat, citizens need confidence and security. And one way to offer it is to see its representatives appear united in the rejection of barbarism and terrorism. But being together against fanaticism of any kind does not mean, much less, to share each and every one of the concrete measures that at one point poses who is in the Government and who has the capacity to establish them. That's understood by anyone who wants to understand it. Socialists are for a united response to jihadism, of course, but we do not accept the penalty of permanent imprisonment, whether reviewable or not. The two positions are not incompatible. In fact, shortly thereafter the Socialist Group in Congress filed an appeal of unconstitutionality against the law of the permanent prison that can be reviewed. Paragraph 2 of the Covenant stipulates that terrorist offences resulting in death shall be subject to the maximum penalty of deprivation of liberty set out in the Criminal Code. This, after the change introduced with its absolute majority in solitary confinement by the PP, is the permanent prison reviewable. The Socialist Party has already made a reservation to this paragraph in the same agreement, as well as its commitment to repeal it as soon as possible. What we do not understand, therefore, is the problems of some other parties in reconciling the two positions, which is very easy to explain whether they agree to penalize the recruitment and training of terrorists, as it seems to be; to strengthen the instruments of justice and the security forces to investigate them, as it seems to be, by empowering them; to protect the victims; to fight against and prevent any form of violent radicalization; or to improve international cooperation in this area. If we agree on all this, which is the anti-jihadist pact, we do not understand the refusal of some to sign it for one aspect, that of permanent prison, in which we can do, as the Socialists have done, perfectly a safeguard. We understand the safeguard, the doubt, or the inconvenience, or the frontal opposition in Bildu's case for the outstanding accounts he drags with his past. But it is very difficult to understand in the case of the Basque Nationalist Party. Especially when, followed by the signing of this agreement, the right to be in all forums and in all coordinating bodies, which are precisely created in the implementation of this anti-jihadist pact, is fiercely claimed. And their refusal is explained only because they do not want to appear in that photo of unity, for reasons we may suspect: to maintain their nationalist purity without contaminating. But if so, it is better to say clearly: "I don't want to get wet or commit myself to a photo for which I can be accused of being unnationalist." Do not make the false excuse of the permanent prison, nor make the victims, claiming that they have not been invited, because it is not true. The Basque Socialists are consistent with our trajectory and our commitments. That is why, although we have already said that this debate seems to us to be out of time, and sterile in addition, we will continue to defend our position with all conviction, according to the terms contained in the amendment that we have fortunately managed to sign with the People's Group and with UPyD.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Crossing the line of no-flying teams, Mr López de Munin, representative of the EH Collector, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u62	Good morning, everyone. In the February of the past year, Popular Party and PSOE signed a treaty, a new chapter in the Spanish State, in the book of liberty. For those who have not read the text of the agreement, I will tell you that it is a text that can be expected from two parties whose idea of freedom is the same as that described in Orwell's 1984 novel. The Orwellian idea in which the text of the covenant is developed is simple. First, generate fear through an invisible enemy. In the face of this created fear, repressive measures are being implemented that directly affect the whole of society, and the people are being tried to convince them of greater security, greater freedom and democracy. Concepts used, casually, by those who limit the political, social, labour and democratic rights of their own people. Soon after this treaty had been signed, reviews began to appear. It was really waiting. The state attorney and progressive judges complained. The groups against the treaty in the Congress of Madrid described the agreement with certain words: acacicada, agraga, an experimentus... Even Mr. Centella, of Plural Left, said the following sentence: "This law will not be used only against jihadism. It is a weapon of mass destruction of rights, especially in the hands of an extreme right-wing minister like Fernández Díaz." It was even said that "This pact will not make Spain safer, but on the contrary: we will have a more protected and more garnished democracy". Even a colleague of Mr. Maneiro in Madrid said that PP and PSOE only seek to stay at the center of political information so that only they are talked about. Later, and after what happened in Paris, you found comfortable, as yourself, in that text. Looks like you want to talk about yourself, too. In truth, the text is quite interesting, because it expresses the position of one and the other very clearly: They place this universal enemy who has been fought against jihadsism. But in reality they aim at a repressive agreement and witch-hunt. As I believe that in order to discuss an issue in politics we must have all the information, I believe that a more thorough analysis of what is called radical jihadism must be put on the table. The term jihadism is a new term, invented by the West, to refer both to radical Islam or Salafism, a more appropriate term, but also to the violent acts committed by the followers of that doctrine of Islam against their own population, against other branches of Islam, such as Shiism, against foreign interests or against the population of those foreign countries. Once we have identified it, we must come to know what has caused the rise of Salafism, not only in the Middle East, but also in Europe, Asia and Africa. It will not be difficult for you to remember how a Marxist-cut secularist movement emerged throughout the Arab world during the 1960s. This movement is understood under the logic of decolonization and, in other cases, of the demand for greater freedoms and social progress, expelling the rulers that the European colonizing countries had placed in power. Surely some of you during the 1970s supported such movements, even though you no longer remember the reasons. It must be remembered that after the Second World War the United States, together with Europe, divided half the world, leaving the steppe of Africa, to rebuild Europe, leaving it to France and England. In some ways, what they owed to the United States was to be paid. On the other hand, after the United States had taken Asia, they would make it a battle zone with Vietnam and Korea. But in the meantime there was a territory that had to be controlled. Roosevelt and the American oil companies understood that it would be key in the following decades and so it has been. That land was Saudi Arabia. England fought with the United States and lost, and could only maintain control over what had already been monitored through its colonizing policy. Example: Iraq, Palestine, Egypt, among others. At that time, the French left Syria and the State of Israel was being shaped. As I have told you before, pan-Arabism was born in the 1960s, a movement that the American foreign ministers did not see with good eyes. And, as would happen decades later in other parts of the globe, the U.S. Department of State promoted policies of overthrowing governments and trade threats. It is also true that in many countries pan-Arabism and its governments and rulers were examples of corruption. After the fall of almost all the secularist movements for the support of the United States, France and England to the enemy Islamist movements of secularism and progress, the allied satrap governments of the United States and Israel begin. But let us not lose sight of the fact that during these decades a strategic ally of the region continued to make millions of dollars with the sale of oil. That country is Saudi Arabia. Let us remember that it is in Saudi Arabia itself where the Wahabist vision arises within Salafism, an ideology that leads Islamist fanaticism. The years go by between wars, coups d'état, illegal military interventions by NATO, millions of displaced persons, illegal occupation of countries and lands, establishment of United States military bases, expoliations of entire peoples by the West, financing radical Islamist groups such as the Muslim Brotherhood and Al Qaeda, and we have come to this day. Official data tells us various things, data that are made by international observatories and by persons authorized in this matter, such as Patrick Cockburn, Karen Armstrong, Marjorie Cohn, even by Western intelligence services. He said that these data give us not only a complete view, but fundamental to addressing international jihadism. The millions of dollars from the sale of hydrocarbons have been used to finance the implementation of wahabism from Afghanistan, Chechnya, Bosnia, Egypt, Syria, Iraq, Morocco, Mali, Pakistan, among many others. Saudi Arabia today is considered by all scholars in this matter to be the ideological father of the Islamic State. And not only ideological, as no one doubts that it funds the ISIS and those groups that called themselves the Syrian Free Army, groups linked to Al Qaeda. And they'll ask, why are you telling us all this? The answer is simple. You, PP and PSOE, have maintained when you have been in power and today have preferential relations with Saudi Arabia and its allies. You sell them weapons and they give money, to you and to the head of the Spanish state. You have as your preferred partner the financier of international terrorism, as well as France, England, the United States and all Western hypocritical governments and rulers. You feed the beast and you are surprised that that beast then bites you. Still, they make us believe that jihadism is something that arises out of nothing and before which no one is prepared, because there is no way to confront it, except from the loss of freedoms for security. They create fear, but they keep feeding the beast, and that beast has a lot of money, right? You implant the "law gag," the life sentence. You arrest people for their political relations with the PKK, arrest those who fight against ISIS, and, on the contrary, defend the interests of Turkey's criminal state, one of the partners of ISIS. You put an advanced student of General Galindo as a counterterrorism advisor, an example for some of what is the defense of freedoms; I speak of Colonel Manuel Navarrete, in case it doesn't ring a bell. But in the meantime, they do not even think about ending their preferential relations and selling weapons to the terrorist state of Saudi Arabia or its allied countries, such as Qatar. They are then surprised when weapons sold by Western governments are used by ISIS or by those who commit horrific attacks against the working people of English, French, Tunisian or Spanish. Politics is the problem or the solution of thousands of problems. Social policies in Europe would help not to create ghettos in cities. Integration, not exclusion, would help to eliminate these risks. The end of wars for economic interests would help to put an end to jihadism. The end of the overthrows of secular governments in the Middle East region would help. The end of the expolies and military occupations would help. The purpose of playing gods on a geostrategic board funding radical Islamist groups would help. The end of economic and political relations with Salafist governments would also help. The end of the sale of weapons to these states would help, and much. The end of political and economic relations with Saudi Arabia would be key. But you prefer to limit freedom in the state and throughout Europe, but continue to take pictures with the sheiks who will then pay for the weapons and madrasas of the radicals. You don't want solutions. You want us scared and afraid of an enemy that you really, your policies and your greed have created.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u64	Mr. Maniro demanded reasons, and I believe that you have given the most general, because it was your suspicion, and that this is not only a photograph. Here's your answer to your question: just a picture. I'd say more. Mr. Pastor mentioned: yesterday the Minister Margalllus remarked to all the European authorities that perhaps he may be in the State of Spain, and that he will leave this treaty. So, like in the past (it is not so far off), the theme of violence and terror is also useful in order to harm the enemy politically. Well, that's it: The picture, that's all. François Holland, who had been less than three months ago, had been in the last serious circumstances, he said: France is at war. And he would say: We have to go to security. All the initiatives. He said, "They have opposed France, because this is the country of freedom, the home of human rights." Literally. At that very moment, 84% of the population of France was saying that they were willing to leave part of their freedom in the name of security, and in return they had more safety. There's been a debate, he's being, and we've seen him last week, as the Minister of Justice of France has left his office. Why did he leave her? He's given his reasons. In the end, this government has a direction from Holland too. That's where preocupation comes from. Some will criticize him; another, the Minister of France, has left his office. But what is clear is that in this architecture of human rights there must be safety. And security is necessary, even for the preservation of peace, freedom, and democracy. But that needs its balance. In the end, if in the name of certainty we put everybody under the grouse, it is the question: what democracy are we building if, in theory at least, everyone is under the souscouse? How much of security must security be free and where are the human rights of all individuals left? That's the real question. And obviously there are Muslims among us, of course, and that can't be identified as jihadism has been done. We can't tolerate similar activities. And that there should be no Excommunication either for them, or for their own part, if we are to build this future amongst them all. Another reason. I believe that the person who brought the matter here ought first to read the compact himself. For instance, here is a word of prison punishment. You think that there are eight measures, but that of the principal, the change of the penal code, which is ready to bomb the bombs in the name of 'Aridism', a man who is ready to kill himself, who enters a market full of bombs, looks into such a country (Belgika, France, Spain) what a penal code is there that can be inflicted upon him? I don't think that's what this terrorist's worrying about, why they kill themselves. We have, of course, a great problem, and we must treat it there, where it comes from; what difference, what oppression of human rights, we must look at all that. But let us be honest when I mention the measures, why I would like to deal with two sections. Esaten dut: "Irakuri testu duzue?". Eta esaten da: "Bai". Batetik, Azaltzen of the Covenant of Ajuria Anea as an anti-terrorist pact. Well, no. The so-called Ajuria Enea Pact was the Euskadi Pacification and Standardization Agreement. And don't you even warn us that you quote the anti-terrorism pact, the anti-terrorism agreement of December 2000, when you dedicate the preamble to Eusko Alkartasuna and the Basque Nationalist Party? It's just that we're being given the preamble. And they tell us exactly where our political thinking should go and where the political strategy should go. And then they wonder why we have any difficulty, observations or an opposite position. It's important to me to know all that. Why this jihadism you're talking about, considering it... You say: "Yes, people must be conscious, and more human resources must be introduced." Okay. But let us consider what we have in hand. The political point of view of opinion is, for instance, a political point of view. And you say: "In a strategy against terrorism, the edge should fill up its role in proportion as it is concerned." But because it doesn't admit the edge is an integral police officer, it's given to it no more than a third-rate role. The Poppical Party, or Social Party Socialist, would, at least institutionally, perform some other way or time, but institutionalismalism, if he likes to do that, why does he not accept it as an integrated police officer? Why, for instance, is not the edge in that structure called CICO (Centro de Inteligentia contra el Terrorism y el Crim Organizdo)? Why isn't the edge? Because Popptic Party said it must not be, it doesn't have to be, it doesn't have to be. It seems to be a sort of policeman, a different cap, but the edge must seem to be a policeman. No, it's an integral police officer, and it's not allowed like an integral police officer. Why can't the border go to the sources of information in Europe, those police information? Why can't he play? Because he doesn't confess. Then, yes, that's what you're saying: If it's a fourth grader, we'll call you if we have to meet. And yesterday afternoon call and a meeting this morning, to inform you, God knows what. Why the police officer of operations that have been committed here against jihadism hasn't been informed of before and after. They made it here! So the edge is considered as an integral police officer, is it or is it not? Those are questions and reasons for me. One, photo. Two, read what you say in the motivation of your proposition, why, among other things, you mention, in a bad way, that which is known as the covenant of Ajuria, and also the anti-terrorist compact. That was our goal, terrorism too, but politically we were the object of it. And what we want is a direct account (now the word reeto is very fashionable, isn't it? ), what has happened in history and near the past. And if there is any intention or desire to win confidence in each other in the future, let the Spanish Government begin to confess to the Border. And then, perhaps, if he knocks the door of the political managers, he may have another reason for convincing him of what he has in this history.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u65	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u66	Thank you again, Madam President. To Bildu's spokesman, half a minute. And half a minute to say that once again the intervention has been shameful. Shameful. In order not to condemn ETA's terrorism, you have alluded to the eternal theory of conflict. In order not to condemn jihadist terrorism, you have made us here a treaty of the Arab world. But what is the conclusion? That you do not condemn ETA terrorism or jihadist terrorism. And that theory you've raised here goes and explains it to the relatives of the 130 victims in Paris, to see if they understand it. Mr. Pastor said that he did not see the usefulness of this initiative. Well, look if he's giving it away! I think it is useful, because it is always useful to combat terrorism. And you said you were praising my treasure. Look, it's stubbornly how Basque society has managed to put an end to terrorism. With teson, with never lowering the guard, with never lowering the arms. And it draws attention to the fact that you now seem to be lowering your arms to that unity, because you have devoted more time to criticizing the opportunity of presenting my initiative, that is, of a party that is clearly in favour of the unity of democrats against terrorism, than to criticizing those who want to become profiled, and that it seems that you do not see that unity so clearly. Time? It's been a month and a half because there's been a break in this House. But it just doesn't matter. A conviction could not be agreed in this House, which was done in other chambers. It took us 11 days here, and at the end there was a statement from the president. We were incapacitated. And I believe that on any occasion it is good to condemn terrorism, it is good to put on the table the defence of freedom and democracy, and the defence of democratic values. Always. What happens is that in you it draws attention, as I said, to your change of attitude, and it tells me about strategy. In that change of attitude there is strategy, and that is not serious, Mr Pastor, that is not serious. Perhaps because you are now trying to reach an agreement with political parties that are not in favour of that anti-jihadist pact, you are more interested in not being so forceful. That's strategy, Mr. Pastor. That is strategy, and what is not, of course, is serious. And with regard to the Basque Nationalist Party, the usual excuses, really. Look if I've read it! I've got it here! And you say that the Ajuria Anea Pact was not against terrorism. For not to be to combat terrorism, in the second paragraph: "The fight against terrorism is, above all, the fight...". The second paragraph is already mentioned. At the first point of the agreement: "The democratic rule of law has its basic pillar in the sovereignty of the popular will. This Parliament rejects the use of violence as it is taking place in the Basque Country." Look, if it wasn't to go against terrorism... And, more importantly, then it calls – it could be read in its entirety – for the Basque Government to take the lead in this action against terrorism. Now, if you now want to give you another interpretation, you are very free to do so. Excuse me. Regarding Ertzaintza. It's just that there's no Ertzaintza, there's no Civil Guard, there's no Mossos d'Esquadra. Interpol, to these bodies, is headed by the National Police, and then there is a body in the Ministry of the Interior, which is responsible for transmitting this information. It's that simple. I mean, don't make me an excuse that the Ertzaintza doesn't access the information, because it goes directly to the National Police, which then gives it to the others. And I don't want to apologize for the prison thing either. Because I'll tell you what exactly it says... Hey, what are you telling me? Let's not pity them, because, like they're going to kill themselves, then for what, no? That's what you said, that's Kafkian, Mr. Egibar. The second point is that the maximum penalty for deprivation of liberty set out in the Criminal Code will always apply to him. And what do you want to tell me now? That for the Basque Nationalist Party terrorists don't have to have the maximum penalty in the Penal Code? That the crime of terrorism doesn't have to have the maximum? Because it doesn't put permanent prison under review here. No, he's saying the most shame he's in at the time. When they were 30 years old, 30 years old; if it is now permanent, reviewable prison... But if you change the Penal Code, you change it. So, what do you want to tell me? That, for the Basque Nationalist Party, terrorism should not be subject to the maximum penalty provided for in the Penal Code? That it is not a crime of sufficient gravity for that, when it is a crime that tries to undermine the foundations of democracy? And I had more things, but I don't have time...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u67	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u68	I'm finishing up, Madam President. You were talking about freedom and security. Of course, many times, in order to guarantee security, totally attacked, not by imaginary enemies, one has to dispense with spaces of freedom! And it tells us, that for many years we have had to curtail our freedom and that of our families in order to have security. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u69	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u70	Thank you, President. Because I am mild, I have observed some hypocrisy in the approaches of the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu. That is, they have not told the whole truth of what they think and have not explained their true reasons for not supporting the anti-jihadist pact. They have not told the whole truth, and what they have basically done has been to use excuses, also to cover up their own shames on this issue. One thing is to say that the anti-jihadist pact cannot become a simple photo, which we share; one thing is to say that the anti-jihadist pact is perfectable and can be improved; one thing is to say that the anti-jihadist pact does not incorporate a series of claims or approaches that, in the case of the Basque Nationalist Party, could do, but another thing is not to pose any kind of alternative and only to see the points that do not share that anti-jihadist pact. We have explained it perfectly. That pact is perfectable, it can be improved. Concrete measures, budgets, material and human resources, etc. must be incorporated; to go to the causes, to promote education and human values, to act on the ground, to improve democracy as much as possible. Indeed, all that needs to be done, but I believe that this anti-jihadist pact is a minimum agreement from which no democratic party should come out today. Any democratic party should enter. And it has given me the feeling, in the case of the Basque Nationalist Party, that it has used simple excuses not to explain its true position. Because, if not, what the Basque Nationalist Party has to do, in addition to criticizing this pact, is to explain specifically what the Basque Nationalist Party would do to confront jihadist terrorism. Let him explain what measures this party would incorporate. We already know what EH Bildu's contribution has been against terrorism, particularly against ETA terrorism, for many years; its contribution has been to support it. In your case, what is your strategy? What are your steps to incorporate into that anti-jihadist pact? Because there's been talk of a permanent prison that can be reviewed. However, the reviewable permanent prison is not authorized as a result of the signing of the anti-jihadist pact; the reviewable permanent prison exists as soon as it is contained in the Penal Code. As soon as this Penal Code is amended, it disappears. Therefore, the jihadist pact does the only thing that it does, as has been said here, that is to say that terrorists will be subject to the maximum penalty laid down in the Penal Code. So, this is an excuse. As an excuse it is also to point out that Ertzaintza is subordinated. It's an excuse. This cannot justify a democratic party not joining that anti-jihadist pact and putting forward concrete measures within that pact that could go along with what we were proposing: doing everything possible not only to condemn this terrorism, but short-, medium- and long-term measures to confront it. But the Basque Nationalist Party has not proposed any concrete measures. And, in the case of EH Bildu, apart from the historical account made by Mr López de Munain, apart from talking about Saudi Arabia, apart from talking about colonialism, apart from talking about all the mistakes that have been made for decades in that area – that is true – there will have to be some concrete action to deal with that terrorism here and now, that is, in the short and medium term. Or what's your alternative? Correcting the story? Correct all the mistakes that have been made? It can be done. But, besides that, I suppose there's something else we'll have to do. However, EH Bildu remains out voluntarily, also because it is consistent with its recent past and its position on ETA terrorism. Therefore, height of sight, beyond that we can be critical with some points of that pact, beyond that we can consider it to be short, beyond that it could have been used at some point as a simple propaganda photo. I believe that the obligation of any democratic party is to join it and make the contributions that each party considers to perfect it. Jihadist terrorism is the responsibility of all of us. It is not a minor issue, it is not just a question of solidarity, but of defending our own values, our own democracy, our existing legality. And to do so, of course, with all the guarantees and with the utmost respect for human rights. That is therefore our position as a democratic political party. We must join that pact and try to perfect it. But they're not worth an apology.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u71	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u72	With your permission, from the seat. I had no intention of intervening, because I believe that everything that had to be said was already said. But I cannot fail to respond to certain statements by Mrs Llanos, for inconsequences and injustices. I would not have made the speech I made today if it had not been because yesterday an entire Spanish government minister used an issue which he and the government themselves describe as a matter of state to go and examine, to exacerbate, to stage differences with regard to that state policy with all European chancelleries. That's a shameless thing, that's unworthy of a Spanish minister. And that, unfortunately, brings back to memory the unworthy for what you also used the anti-ETA pact in your day. All the anti-terrorist measures used against us as soon as they had occasion. We, who also suffer, like you, that lack of freedom, we also had to endure the attacks of the People's Party, accusing ourselves of going against life, of going against freedom, of going against decency, of betraying the dead, of having hands stained with blood, in a whole forum of Congress. That's what you can't do, Mrs. Llanos. When one asks for unity, when one asks for responsibility, when one asks for a sense of State, then one has to prove it with the facts. And you, allow me to tell you, and I am very sorry, have done just the opposite of what is a state policy, however much you later dishearten in that rostrum with that name on your lips, because it sounds like sarcasm, after seeing the facts of an entire minister of the Government of Spain barely 24 hours ago. And I wanted to end up making a plea to the Basque Nationalist Party. That, since you share a good part (almost all the concrete measures contained in that anti-jihadist pact), if not today, on a day as close as possible you reconsider your position and can join a pact on a problem that affects us all, also the Basques.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u73	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u74	Thank you. I still maintain the illusion that when we talk about a specific topic, we can talk about that topic and not about things that you bring up and that have nothing to do with that topic. In this case, we were going to talk about jihadism and no one has talked about jihadism, except here the person who is talking to them. They haven't said anything at all. The causes and consequences, to be clear, are reprimanded, because the only causes they have pointed out are police. But it is that the consequences, that is, how to end the problem, are also all police. At least we have given a series of keys, which I will then repeat in case you have not had to write and point them out before, for which we and we believe the solutions are. EH Bildu evidently is against jihadism. But we are also against that pseudofascist pact that you have presented. Obviously. But that's not what I'm saying. It is that what is happening throughout Europe, which is also the second point of your compromise amendment... Today an entire Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe – not just a gift – comes out warning that tough times are coming for human rights in Europe. It criticizes Hollande, and criticizes Hollande because the measures that were exceptional have become permanent measures. And not only that, but it says, as it is, and I read it to you: "Exceptional situations have limited results", that is, the results that all their policies have are absolutely limited, "but attacks on rights are large and permanent." The criticism we have made to them, apart from the historical criticism to contextualize where the subject of jihadism comes from, where Salafism comes from, where Wahabism comes from, and, of course, who are at the international level the co-operators necessary for wahabism to continue to advance (and not only in the Middle East, but also in Europe), should be remembered what are the circumstances in which Bosnia is, for example, right now. But that gives you exactly the same. It gives them exactly the same appearance of radical Islamism not only in countries of the Middle East orbit, but throughout Europe, throughout Africa, with the invasion of Mali. That also makes no difference to you that one country has invaded another country, in this case Mali, against international legality. They don't care exactly. Then, with the consequences that all that can have and that can lead to attacks in Europe, we are already talking about other things. But we're not talking about anything at all. The only thing you put on the table is cuts in freedoms. They don't go to the cause at any time. I mean, why don't you talk about one of the biggest exporters of Islamic terrorists who are going to fight ISIS being European? Should the cities of London or the ghettos of London and France be bombed to end the ISIS? Should these people be bombed? That's their solution: more police, more weapons. What is the solution for you? Would it not be a social integration policy? Wouldn't those ghettos not be created? Wouldn't it be to stop selling weapons to Saudi Arabia? Wouldn't it be to stop buying them oil? Wouldn't it be breaking relations with Turkey, which also buys oil from the Islamic State? In the meantime, what are you doing? Quite the opposite. We are told that the rest of the groups that are not willing to sign their pseudo-fascist pact against freedoms are the ones who are in favour of jihadism. Not much less. You will have to explain to the victims of whom I have spoken your photos and those of the heads of state with the sheiks. Those are the pictures you have to explain. They also have to explain those of foreign ministers by meeting with the Foreign Minister of Saudi Arabia, Qatar, and so on, by holding hands and saying that they are preferred partners. Those are the pictures you have to explain to the victims. When the weapons of the Spanish State are sold to Saudi Arabia and those weapons end up in the hands of the mercenaries of ISIS or any other radical Islamist group, you will have to explain to the victims how these weapons have arrived there. In fact, Al-Nusra in Syria congratulated and congratulated the French Government on the sale of weapons it had made and that they had already arrived. Al-Nusra congratulated him, who is the base of Al-Qaeda in Syria; they were part of those who later murdered in Paris. But it's just that that gives you exactly the same thing. They bring us a debate that is simply a debate against freedom and citizenship, to scare us. And I keep saying to you, all you want is to put fear into society, so that we spend more on weapons, so that we have less right, and so that we can't debate anything at all. They want us quiet, but they won't keep us quiet. And you want the solution? Stop financing you, all of you, international jihadism. Stop giving them money, stop buying them oil and there they will have one of the solutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u75	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Finally, the Eucariats represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u76	Ma'am Llanos, what I've got is that if the Spanish Government took the edge like an integral police, it would be in all the institutions of Europe. So there's a political criterion not to be found. And don't mention to me right now what the National Police and the Civil Guard have to do with them. Article 17 of the State understands the Border as an integral police officer and has full responsibility on these matters. And the State, at present at least, and even in the near past, does not respect the state, nor respect the bordering. That's the perfect truth, we think. Bestetik, we're clearing up a little bit more. I will make use of Mr Pastor's intervention, but the argument he made calling for respect for the political position, of course, also serves to measure and consider politically what in the past, in the nearest and the furthest, has happened in this country with the anti-terrorist struggle, how politically and partyly this anti-terrorist struggle has been used. Today there is a change, there is an invitation to the PNV to consider. But normally, with the issue of the anti-terrorist struggle, when you two (PP and PSOE), agreeing on your strategy, differed in something and began an incarnated struggle between you, what we do know about the Basque Nationalist Party is that you two agreed to buzz the Basque Nationalist Party. They always agreed. And the December 2000 anti-terrorist pact is a faithful example of that. It's a political pact, and read it to him. And the Pact of Ajuria Enea, of pacification and normalization, has a political development, and you can also take the paragraphs that talk about political litigation and political conflict. It is a pact of political normalization and pacification that of Ajuria Enea. Of course, he was also fighting violence and terrorism, but that doesn't give you the word to tell the rest of the political spectrum that you have to communicate with the idea that the People's Party has on this matter. Ajuria Enea was a consensus table. So, we're clearing up. When a minister questions the political position of today's candidate for the presidency of the government, which is articulating its new majority, the Socialist Party is resenting it, because it is a question before all the chancelleries of Europe. And can the Basque Nationalist Party say something about what has been in the past the questioning of the position of the Basque Nationalist Party in favour of all human rights and against violence and terrorism? We have chapters and chapters to develop, but this is not the time for discharge. Therefore, and in conclusion, I would like to reiterate that, beyond political confidences or mistrust, if the Spanish Government in the operational field wants the Basque institutions, including the Ertzaintza as an integral police force, also to be able to work in the fight against jihadist terrorism, it must be recognised that the Ertzaintza is an integral police force and that it can have direct access to the Centre for Intelligence against Terrorism and Organized Crime, which is a new institution in which it can participate perfectly, and that it can have access to the information of Interpol, Europol and Eurojust, which it can access directly. Why doesn't it get through? Because the People's Party, the Spanish Government, has vetoed that possibility. And, therefore, from there the texts are texts, but read the preambles to the agreements or supposed anti-jihadist agreements, which rest in another preamble or in another agreement, which is that of the fight against terrorism and for freedoms, of December 2000, where in the preamble the political objective is set, and is Basque Nationalist Party and Eusko Alkartasuna, and also talk about the fight against terrorism. And there is also talk of a model and a concrete definition of what prison policy has to be, for example – read it – a prison policy conceived as a counter-terrorism struggle, of persecution. That's written, you wrote it. That's the story too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u77	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. End of discussion, we'll vote for the popular Basques, Euskal Socialists and Mistoy D's half-correction signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 26; the opposites, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u78	So we're not allowed to rectification in the middle of the line. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposal as a team of laws called Misto-UPyD, concerning the immediate reprieve of the IRPH. Discipline and final resolution. The number on which the proposal has been made: Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u79	Thank you, President. It is difficult to separate the economic crisis and its effects on thousands of citizens from the accumulation of banking and financial abuses that thousands of citizens have had to suffer in recent years. However, there is no harm in not coming, and it is possible that only as a result of the economic crisis have we been able to be aware and become aware of the abuses that we have had to endure for years: the purchase or sale of preferred shares, the acquisition or sale of subordinated financial contributions, the establishment of ground clauses, abusive commissions, the signing of interest-delays close to 20% in the contracts for mortgages signed, the hiring of mortgages referred to in the IRPH and a long et cetera. A cluster of abuses that have been spreading over time and that have harmed thousands of citizens. Finally, toxic products, lack of information, mass deception and immoral, cheating or fraudulent practices. Abuse practices that were always justified by the perpetrators of abuse in one way or another. The citizens behaved stoically for years, until the economic crisis blew up all these unbearable practices and until the citizens were run out of economic resources, or were driven out of their homes, and as a result they ran out of patience and decided to say, "Enough already!" to such abuses. Already at the time our Ararteko denounced such practices and demanded that users be protected from financial services: "As a result of the profound economic crisis that is going on in our society, situations of vulnerability and unprotectiveness arising from the acquisition of banking products and services, as well as banking practices that are causing uncontrolled effects and of great impact on family life are evident." Obviously, we added, uncontrolled effects because political power decided not to control them. On too many occasions political power has been frightened and subordinated to economic or financial powers; it remains so, in fact. And I think it's time to do justice and put things in place, or at least try. The perpetrators of such abuses play with advantage, because they know that they handle the threads of the cotar, but it is simply a matter of, at least for our part, continuing to practice this sport of risk, which is also called denouncing the injustices caused by banking and certain economic and financial powers. The Supreme Court has recently annulled another set of unfair bank terms. The High Court has annulled, for example, the clauses with which BBVA dealt with cases of early maturity of mortgage loans, which enabled the institution to require the repayment of the entire loan in advance if the default of any part of the shares occurred. Other clauses considered null and void are those that impose on the consumer the payment of pre-trial, procedural or attorney's fees contracted by the bank when the consumer fails to pay. In other words, it is no longer the automatic obligation of the consumer to pay the bank for the action it is taking against it. The clauses preventing the consumer from changing the destination of the property without the express permission of the bank are also annulled. Likewise, clauses that equate the acceptance by the customer of a telephone offer with his handwritten signature and the assumption of the particular terms of the contract are declared abusive. Dozens of abuses that have had to endure thousands of citizens for many years, and there are many abuses to fight against today. And politics has a lot to say about the issue we are discussing today, the IRPH. When the IRPH Cashiers and IRPH Banks have disappeared, the IRPH Entities remain in force. It is defined as the simple average of the types used in mortgage loans. However, the data provided by the entities are not published; therefore, their determination is opaque and unclear. There is no system for verifying the veracity of such data. And it does not represent the reality of the Spanish mortgage market, since, when determined through the simple average of the interest applied by the institutions, without weighting their market share, they all influence with the same specific weight. The IRPH is influenced by the entities, since, when determined through that average, they all know their specific weight or the exact impact that any change in the interests that apply to their new customers in the corresponding month will have. In other words, the determination of the IRPH is not subject to the laws of supply and demand. This explains why the IRPH has experienced continuous increases, unlike euribor, in serious harm to consumers, in many cases leading them to very serious economic situations or even to the loss of housing. A situation, therefore, which is clearly abusive and unacceptable, which we want not only to denounce, but to try to correct by means of this proposal for a law which is being debated in this Parliament today. On 27 June 2013, this Parliament asked the state authorities for an early disappearance of the IRPH Caisses and Banques varieties, which is now closed, as well as the establishment of the euribor plus 1 % as a substitute index, a request that was not met. In addition, banks with alternative indexes in their loans were urged to immediately replace the IRPH with the alternative index. This request was not met by any entity. Today we insist on defending what we believe is right through this GNP that we are registering and that we are defending today. And hence the proposals that we continue to defend as recorded in their original text: "The Basque Parliament declares that the IRPH interest rate is opaque, influenced by banking entities, not representative of market reality and clearly harmful to consumers, and that it must be considered abusive." We want this Parliament to say that this index is clearly abusive, we want citizens' representatives to stand by these citizens and say today, here, now that that index is clearly unfair and therefore abusive and that it must therefore be repealed. We want to ask this Parliament to urge "the competent state authorities to declare their immediate repeal as an official reference type for mortgage loans". We want this Parliament to urge "banking institutions that have applied it or that continue to apply it, in any of its varieties, to abandon its application immediately and to reintegrate all interest collected in reference to the index to consumers". We want this Parliament to urge "banking institutions to return the homes released for the execution of mortgages referring to any of the varieties of IRPH". We want this Parliament to urge the government "to put all the means at its disposal", including Kontsumobide, "for the defence of the people affected by this index and for the protection of future mortgage lenders". And this Parliament urges "the European Parliament, the European Council and the European Commission to ensure that the new European Regulation on benchmarks, which is currently being negotiated, is also applicable to reference rates which, like the IRPH, are drawn up by central banks". This is our proposal, and we have finally decided to keep it in its original text the proposal of the affected platform. Only the Basque Nationalist group tabled an amendment. The Basque Nationalists group in the last few days or hours has tried to agree on an amendment to a transaction with UPyD. We thank you. I think it has been generous in its approaches, but we have decided to keep the original text. I think there are no discounts, I think there are no transfers, I think the GNP has to remain as it is. A lot has already been done, a lot of injustices have been done, a lot of abuses have had to be done by thousands of citizens to say at the last moment that we agree to lower the demands of this original text. It's a strong, demanding text, but I think it's fair. And it would be a cause for joy if this initiative were approved, I don't know if by all groups, but by at least a majority of groups. Thank you, therefore, to the Basque Nationalist Group for its generosity in relation to the proposal for that compromise amendment. In fact, your amendment in its entirety contains some points that could be accepted; however, it also meant a reduction in relation to our initial requirements. And, as I say, it is not the time for divestments, it is not the time for sale; it is the time to denounce all the injustices and abuses that have been committed for many years. When we talk about political power being subordinated to economic and financial powers, we talk about debates like that of today. It is a matter of political power saying expressly and publicly that this has been done is clearly unfair and that, therefore, there can be no more affected citizens and that all citizens who have suffered must be well treated and replenished in their rights. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the number of the leaders, the euscripts represent the team. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u81	Ladies of Parliament, members of the legislature, good days to all. Mr. Maneiro's speech has been carefully listened to. I am going to do it first, to explain what we defended and what we defend. After the apparition, and after the text of the proposition that appeared to us, Mr. Maniro did his own literally, or almost literally, what appeared there, and we introduced a full correction, which brought about four or five points. It's the first thing. We were asking state-state authorities to abolish the IRPH as an official mortgage type. And Mr. Maniro said that we're dealing with him, he said some things like that. But I think, on demand of disappearance, there are no restaurants. The point is, perhaps, how we would have faced the existing issues, but not that it is either a rebellion, or that we have no consciousness of the problem. In the second place, we'd say that with what we used to say at the beginning of our first texts, the Basque Acts insists that all the resources that are available to the Basque Mitch, including the consulate, for the defense of people affected by this index, and for the protection of future mortgage signatures. Why? Somehow the problem has come to us. It is not the invention of Euskadin, but we thought that when we'd often said that people were designed, and that at least we'd have to put the motto of this legislation on ourselves. We are conscious that this is not panacea, that it is not ideal, but we thought we ought to place it on our side, and on this side, according to the jurisdictions of our jurisdictions and euscal institutions, we ask them to assist these affected ones. Point three. The Basque parliament demands that the clause of mortgaged contracts and the contributions of bills should be completed by the law-producing proceedings, in order to strengthen the protection of the consumers of all European Union, and even by considering the possibility of compensation in all the members of the States. And what was demanded in the fourth, was to open a second opportunity for both private and family. For the last few days, we've received a machine of e-mails and emails. I don't know what we were trying to defend every moment. We have often had the impression of such an attitude against me or against me, and, according to this, because there were several things and some mistakes to be corrected, we sent Mr. Maniro a half-way proposal. There were two proposals which were sufficient to be brought together. And, according to our message from the beginning, we saw that perhaps the problem was not when we said it in our full correction, but when we did not say it. It seems there was a problem here on matters like refunding. We from the start saw a problem of legal security. And it seems to us that things must come from realism, and that's where we wanted them to come. Not because we have any drugs in our consciousness, not because we are not so sensibised as others, but because we thought that we had to deal with it differently. And in this respect we thought that we had made a serious and just proposition. Unfortunately, this agreement wasn't possible with Unión, Progreso y Democracia, but if I didn't misunderstand Mr. Maniro in one last hour of communication, it would at least be possible to vote on the initial texts. Is that so? Is there a problem voting on points? Then we'd ask for a vote, if it's possible. And if the answer be yes, I should be grateful to Mr. Maneiro's disposibility, because it is true that the more votes will be, the better it will be for such a cause. And I'm just leaving the rest for the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing over the uncorrected teams, Mr. Damborena, representing the Basque Potion Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u83	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that Mr Maneiro has missed the opportunity to have a debate on this issue, at least with some seriousness. Because it is true that there are many Supreme Court rulings declaring unfair clauses many clauses of all kinds of bank contracts, but it is no less true that today we are here with this issue that you have brought to us because the Gipuzkoa Provincial Court has overturned all the rulings that said what you say here. That's why we're here today. And that sentence is appealed to the Supreme Court, but that's why we're here today. Otherwise, we wouldn't be here today debating this. Therefore, I can agree on your proposal in many things, but what you bring us here is that we say what the Gipuzkoa Provincial Court has said is not so. You want us to say that it is an opaque type, influenced by banking entities, not representative of the reality of the market. And I think here you have to be a little serious not to fool people, and you have to know what the euribor is and what the mortgage loan benchmark or IRPH is. The euribor, which certainly no one has (so it has the euribor plus 1, plus 1.5, plus 2) depends on the banks, depends on the price they have agreed. It is a wholesale price, that the banks do fix it. It is fixed by certain European banks in anticipation of income, in anticipation of the rates that at three months, at six months, at one year will have. This is how the euribor is set, a wholesale price for retail banks. That's why the banks apply one more, each one their own. When you say "Euribor plus 1 has to be mandatory", maybe the bank, with euribor plus 1, loses money and will not give mortgage loans. You get him out of the market, literally. And when you say "IRPH is manipulable, banks manipulate it"... Man, let's see. One thing was, more or less, the manipulation of the IRPH Cajas, which the Government of Spain had already repealed it a long time ago (a small box could have influenced the average type), and another thing is what we have today. And, eye, how does it look? With the average of the real mortgage rates that all banking entities in Spain – yes, all banking entities in Spain – apply. And you tell me, "It's opaque, because the Banco de España doesn't check if those are the types of truth." Man, the mortgage guys, as far as I know, go to the mortgage security property registry. And if the problem of opacity is that, in your opinion, the Banco de España is failing to meet those obligations that it would have to have, it's logical to ask the Banco de España to do more, or to do one I don't know what, which you don't think it does enough, so that these guys are the really effective ones that are being paid and that everyone knows it. Because the euribor today is very low. Euribor can be negative. I don't see banks paying people for lending them money for a mortgage. Come on, I'll do it, too. So, we do the real debate about real things or not. And I don't think it's right to say that the Gipuzkoa Provincial Court is suddenly very bad because it overturns the rulings of some first instance courts, when that same court did condemn Kutxabank, precisely for deceiving one client and replacing him with the euribor that had plus 1 as a substitute for another in the renegotiation of the contract. Therefore, it seems that the judges of the Gipuzkoa Provincial Court see something, and when they see that something is not in compliance with the regulations, they take it and apply it. And your proposal... I liked the Nationalist Party better. If people do not agree that the reference type is set by the average reference type of all those made, they will have to look for another reference type. But I almost deny myself more that the reference is euribor, which depends on a meeting of a number of banks in Europe, who decide whether to go up or down according to other things, and not on the reality of the market. Nor does it seem to me that the current IRPH, not that of previous boxes, is so high. I remember I started paying my mortgage at 17%, and I think the IRPH is on two, two and peak. If we are to have a serious debate on this subject, I think it is right. If you come here to say what you have said, or what you have tried to say, the true case is that today there is no firm judgment saying what you have said, that it is an opaque system, influenced by banking entities. Influential... If you agree to sign a mortgage loan at 18% today, of course it will be influenceable, because you are going to raise the average to all of us. But I don't think there's a lot of people willing to do that either. And that's the formula that the boxes could have before, but there's some competition. I'm the one with the boxes... I've never had it. I tried not to go to the boxes, because he's always been the tallest guy. But the people who went to the boxes, I guess, would have other benefits. Worse it seems to me that I am forced to make life insurance with that same entity, to guarantee the payment of the mortgage, which costs me more. Why do I have to do it with the bank or the box and I can't go where an insurance company gives it to me? Why do they force me to do that? If that can cost me more than the 0.5, or 0.3, or 0.2 type differential! I think that's the debate we had to have. Not saying the IRPH is very bad, it's opaque, it's unfair. And when the euribor goes up, then is the euribor going to be unfair because it goes up? Why does it go down? This isn't like that. Or, at least, life doesn't work that way. We liked the amendment of the Nationalist Party better, because it did not set what it had to be. And today I'm not able to say which is the best formula, or the one that best guarantees that the average real effective type we want to have everyone at the time of going to ask for a mortgage be it this or that, but to me the well-run IRPH seems to me to be at least an average type of market, if there is a real market and if there is real competition. With the boxes it was more complicated that there was that real competition. Today there are no more boxes, today they are all banks, and everyone is competing for mortgages, and it is clear that this competition means that the guys are down. That is why they are today at the prices they are and not at the prices they were. But all of them. And, in any case, if we are going to be able to vote on points, we will vote in favour of some and we will abstain in others in the initial proposal that is brought to us. But, in any case, I also say to you: we are here today with this issue because the Gipuzkoa hearing has laid down all the other sentences. Therefore, on this that it is opaque, unjust, illegal and everything else, precisely today what is judicially accredited is the opposite, is what is in force, unless the Supreme Court at the time revokes the ruling of the Gipuzkoa Hearing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Euskal Socialists' representative. My lord, yours is the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u85	Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. To say that this matter has been discussed in this House on previous occasions, so that we take for granted the demonstrations delivered at that time. And, in line with those positions, we will vote in favour of the initiative put forward. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Unite the EH team as representative. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u87	Thank you, Mrs. President. Good noon, everyone. First, I would like to welcome the members of the Stop Gipulia and Araba, Bizkai and Gipuese Street, who have been made through their work so far as they are. It was through their work that most of the advanced steps were made. Good job to you, and keep working like that! That the IRPH is without transparency, that it does not reflect the reality of the market, that it is hurtful to consumers, and must be abused by us from the first moment we heard of it. And so we have defended ourselves more than once, too often, because in time he is going too long to find a suitable one, especially for many families who have suffered and suffer. At the meeting of Eplegu, Society, and Housing Committee on November 16th, 2015, one of the representatives of the Jewish Society of the IRPade, which is now among us, we had occasion to hear of Jose Maria Erasus. And with his explanations he offered us even more arguments that we should cease to claim the IRPH index to continue the unacceptable state of the cause. It was not possible that we should present this other proposal to each other in a group, as well as the immediate removal of the IRPH interest by UPD. But we're just trying to point out that we're protecting him from point to point. The IRPHA reference to the housing loans should immediately be canceled as official. The courts of Donostia, Bilbo, and Gastheize trade, in these matters the specialists have been struck with an invalid judgment, because they have considered it to be unmanipulative and transparent. But now the provincial courts are still abolishing the sentence, using the opposite arguments, because it is not proved by them to be IRP's manipulability. What's this? How long do we have to go around with the same thing? Now do we have to wait for the Supreme Court's decision? And in this request, I think most of us can agree, but that's not enough. The banks which have applied the IRPHA to any variation, or applied to it, ought to be strongly insisted upon to be applied at once. On the one hand, all the interests which have been collected according to this index ought to be restored to the consumers; and on the other hand, all the homes which have been deprived of by the execution of the loans which are annexed to it should be returned to that which belongs to them. And this can't be controversial. We are here to defend the interests of the citizens which have been injured by the influence of an injustice. He should start all the resources he has, including the Consulate High, for the defense of people who are damaged by this index, and for the protection of those who are able to sign housing loans in the future. We should put it in the hands of those who need administration. And, as the latter point, we ought to ask the European parliament, the European Council, and the European Committee, that the new European rule of reference in these moments may be applicable, like the IRPH, to the references made by the central banks. We can understand the position of the Polula Party, which has always been pure according to the conduct of the Spanish Government. But we do not understand how the other proposition, which presents a full correction to the "Eulectual Party" as well as to the "Jeltarian." You received the IRPH index as a reference officer request to immediately revoke it. All right, all right. But next you want to ask the authorities in the state to find a solution for those who are touched by this reference index, I like the word harge, but with the organizationd associations of those who are touched. That, in principle, is not bad. It is always convenient for us to find a solution to most of the agents, but it is not enough. It is well, too, that the European Committee should require legal contributions, and the clauses of mortgage contract, and the procedures of the return of the debt, to harmonize. All right, all right. And the absence of families, and the second chances to individuals and families. All right with that, too, so it is. And as long as they're here to protect their citizens, they'll be welcome. But is that enough? We don't understand why you don't ask for all the interest you've collected on this index to return to consumers or how you don't agree to ask them. And we don't understand why you don't defend the subsidies attached to the IRPH should be translated from the wrong housing. I suppose if you agree with the demand for Revocation of IRPH, it is not appropriate. And according to an unsuited principle of interest, those who have paid more than they ought to pay, do we not speak for ten cents, should they receive what would be theirs? Besides, if the injured persons who have been obliged to pay more than their own were not able to pay so great a sum, but the lesser, if they were able to pay the more just, and had lost the house for want of money, how could we not expect to restore the house to them? It's not fair. And we're just talking about material damage. We haven't even mentioned these damages, these families, how much suffering they've suffered. I can't imagine. How can I ease this pain? At least, returning material goods that were lost. If this index is Unjust, it is Unjust; And the mischiefs inflicted on an injustice ought to be observed. Or don't you see it like that?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u88	Thank you, Madam Mount. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u89	Thank you, President. With regard to the point vote, in this case I do not have to consult with anyone, because there is no compromise; it is an original initiative. I believe that there would be no problem at all, since the groups that have asked for the points vote would be in favour of voting in favour of the points or, if necessary, abstaining, so I do not think it is a bad option to give these groups the option of supporting some of the initiatives raised, some of the points. On the other hand, I do not think this initiative seems to be so revolutionary either, since neither the People's Party nor the Basque Nationalist Party are going to vote against any of the points. I therefore believe that we have come to the conclusion that this is a perfectly reasonable and fair initiative. Above all, it is fair, and it is trying to resolve an injustice and it is trying to point out an injustice committed for many years. There would be no problem, therefore, so that you can vote for points. Mr Damborenea said that there is no judgment that has definitively determined that this IRPH is opaque, influenceable, not representative of the mortgage market, etc. Nor is there any sentence that says it isn't. At a time when there was a sentence that said all this, I believe that the position of this Parliament could even be left, except to demand political responsibility from those responsible for this abuse. It is about political power being ahead. And in view of how this IRPH works, in view of the appearance of the affected platform that took place in this Parliament a few weeks ago, in view of all the arguments that we have been able to study throughout all these weeks, our political conclusion is that this index is opaque, influenceable, does not represent the Spanish mortgage market, is not subject to the laws of supply and demand, and is therefore abusive. Let's say it's a political approach once thoroughly analyzed how it works, how this index has been working. I think it would be interesting to reread, that especially those spokespersons who were not in that appearance of this platform could reread, the arguments of the spokesperson of that platform, which I think explained perfectly well how this index works and the reasons why we should present this initiative. We studied the matter, considered the claims to be fair and therefore decided to register this initiative. The Basque Nationalist group is presenting a total amendment which I understand is a reduction in relation to the demands of that platform, and that is also what I have been told by that platform. Without going any further, in relation to the return of empty homes and some other additional point, beyond which any of the points you decide to make with that amendment could be reasonable too. But I believe that, in general, it does what it does is to amend a proposal put forward by the stakeholder platform itself. And, in that sense, we believe that it lowers the initial requirements, and I believe, as I said at the beginning, that it is not time to lower the initial requirements. On the other hand, Mr Damborenea has come to say what he has said in other debates on these kinds of issues: that people already knew what they were signing. I believe that, today, saying such a thing is an insult to thousands of citizens who have been scammed by the bank and the way the bank and the boxes have behaved. I believe that it has been perfectly demonstrated over the last few years that abuses have taken place, and we can talk about subordinate financial contributions, the preferential ones, the ground clauses... Thousands of citizens who were deceived or who did not receive sufficient information. Therefore, that statement that people already knew what they were signing, I think, above all, it is not fair, and I think that this kind of statement should be banished. There have been many abuses, there have been many scams. I believe that banking has not behaved as it should, and that only the economic crisis and awareness of many thousands of citizens have made it possible for these matters to be put on the table. But there has been a long time of silence, a long time in which citizens have been paying abusive clauses, exaggerated commissions, preferential commissions or subordinate financial contributions. I don't think it's fair. And, therefore, from politics we are at the disposal of, beyond what the courts can say in relation to whether this is an illegal index – we have not said it is illegal – in relation to whether it is opaque, influenceable, I think we have to go ahead and say it ourselves on the basis of the data we already have and having known the injustices that thousands of citizens have suffered in recent years.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u90	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u91	It would be interesting if this initiative could come out at least without any votes against. I think we would do justice and we would do very well to the dignity of the Members of this House.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u92	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. He mustn't speak. Euscala Popular's representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u93	Mr. Maneiro, what I have told you is not that there is no sentence: that there is no firm. There is no firm, because the first instance are appealed, those that have been resolved on appeal and in the hearing are appealed to the Supreme; therefore, what is not a sentence that says neither if it is unfair nor if it is not unfair. I didn't say people already knew what they were signing. Don't be unfair, because I didn't say that. Now, no one in this country knows what you're signing? Doesn't anybody know? Neither do you? Here we'll be clear. I must be one of the dumbest, because the IRPH is at 2% and I paid more for mine last year. I don't know how to read or know anything about anything. I told you before I stopped doing demagogy because things aren't like that. This is a serious issue. I don't like paying more money than I should. I don't know if you like it, I don't. I guess nobody likes to pay more, huh? Now, I'll also tell you one thing: we're talking about mortgage loans, we're not talking about other products. The people I know, when they're going to ask for a mortgage loan, they're marching through a series of banks. Everyone I know does it, parades. And what do you ask? The guy, the deadline and the month I get. Those three things. And depending on that parade, people make mortgages in one place or another. And then you find what I said to you. When I've already decided, they tell me, "But now you have to sign this life insurance." And with that yes you can't go then parade around, asking to see if I have another cheaper one, because either you sign it there at that time or you don't get the mortgage. And that doesn't come in the mortgage clauses, because it's not a mortgage clause. So, when I'm telling you there's gonna be who... Who's been fooled? I told you, of course you've been fooled in the bank! Kutxabank. The Gipuzcoan family that had referred to as replacement type the euribor plus 1 and, when it is going to renegotiate, they take it away, knowing that the IRPH Caisses disappeared, to put it the IRPH Banks, which was higher. But when you initially signed the contract with that guy, why did you sign it in that box and that guy? Because it was more expensive or because it was cheaper than elsewhere? I repeat that I must be one of the dumbest, least read and most deceived, because I paid more than 2% last year. But I'm not gonna go around saying I didn't know which guy was signing because there's people paying less today. I don't know if you understand me. And in any case, I thank you for allowing us to vote for points. We are not voting in favour of any, but if we all decide that the IRPH should be abolished, some will have to be invented. Or do we leave the banks to decide, without any reference? Because that's the approach, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u94	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Oh, my God. From there, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u95	To say only that, though it should vote on point, it seems at least as if it were to leave the whole, with voices or abstaining from them, but that it will exit. And I'm glad for that. But if this is accepted here, this time it has an effect. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u96	Thank you, Madam Mount. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mistto-UPyD, but we'll point it out. First, we vote for 1 and 3 and then all the others. We'll vote for 1 and 3 points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 36; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 37.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u97	So they've been accepted with 1 and 3 points. Then we'll vote for the other points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u98	Thus the rest of the points have been unanimously accepted. I'll keep going, because the next point won't be too long. The fifth point for the theme data: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the EHGG of the Belsen Rockores, the workers of Aternnova, who have been left behind after the prayer expedition. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Arrido, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u99	Good afternoon. And welcome to the workers of Aternnova who are here today too. I don't know whether it's going to be short or long, but I don't doubt it's important. The proposal that we bring is based on the interaction of the head of the Tapia department on the Aernova company in Berétevilla 27th November. Then we said that Aternnoova had been obliged by social and political pressures to withdraw the demands of the expedition, but that the danger had not disappeared. And that's why we wanted to know what fun would do to avoid that danger, what the chief physician was going to do to protect all the jobs and to guarantee worthy conditions of work. Unfortunately, during the last few weeks, it has been shown that the intention of the company is to reduce the number of workers and to subvert the conditions of labor. Today the committee has a meeting with your company, and you'll know what's the proposal you've made, I don't know it. We'd like you to think it was a good suggestion, but we don't have much hope. However, as we said to the chief physician at the company in the November, the retreat of the pension of prayer was not finished from our point of view, at least from our point of view, the task of rejoicing ended. But, considering the answer we received, we see more of the chief physician doing his office and protecting the interests of the company than of the employments and conditions which are in the factory at Araba. We can't forget the context. In September, 2015, Aernova announced that the Aernnoova would fire about 40 workers at the same time as the idea of taking out the stock in 2016, and that, of course, she would account for the benefits which she had acquired during the last period. As if that were short, at the same time he announced that he had to hire 130 new workers in Toledo with an investment of 18 million dollars. Shameless. For all that, I think it's essential to recall what has been said to the chief of Tapias in November. You can't place yourself in the normal neutrality you understand. It must be active for jobs and workers. You know, it's just fun to run control and track over business plans, which means that institutions have to change the model of contact with corporations. It's not worth a model where the main base is to give public support to the company without forcing them to make clear commitments. I can't believe that a company, Aternnnov, in this case, would have collected millions and millions of millions, had been protected from the origin of the whole protection of the funn and the Congress of Arama, and now wanted to destroy Araban in order to create such a number of jobs as Toledon. The Aernova case isn't the only one, unfortunately, but it's a reality that happens in more companies. I think we remember some names here: Let's talk about Cegasa. It would be a long list of Cables, Archemones, and a long list, if we had collected them one after another. That's why we think we should change our current model of relationship, and we won't get tired of repeating it. When public money is given to a company, some conditions must be placed; the institutions must act in an active position to defend the function and the conditions of work. And every time we set this down, and every time we plan it, the answer we hear from the fun is always the same and it's always the same, the answer is always the same. After all, it's what they say: "Corresponde en el ámbito prioro, camoro y nojadors hilloras, I addara, buscar las medicas necremaris y alcanzar acuerdos." This is what we hear over and over again: it is a private sphere in which the institutions have nothing to say, what to do. Aernnovako kasuan was saluburuak gauza bera were a zigun. Erregulatorzio-espidienta empresk Erretiratu zuenean, orduan bai, presioa egin ondoren alde guztietatik, baita ere Jaurlaritzatik, esan zuen: "It is time for real dialogue, dialogue and for the company committee to do its job and the company to do its job, for the approaches to be appropriate on both sides and for work to be done". From our point of view, this is not enough, we need a different pattern. Besides, we think it's essential that everything we're seeing shouldn't happen. The foundation must be clear in this new model: the commitment and attachment to the country, the continuation of productive activity, and the assurance of social employments. We don't, as I said before, think it's right to present public money unless corporations have clear commitments. Condition must be set: public assistance, of course, but it is clear that those who receive the money of all, will neither do nor desecration, nor disapprobation. And if you do, they should give up money. We are convinced that the current institutional-business relationship model has failed. How many companies – as I said earlier – have received public money (in some cases a lot of money, even since birth) and have ended up presenting employment regulation files, firing, delocalizing and leaving workers on the street? I think a lot. This is what we believe we need to change, and that the institutions are for it, to change this situation. Let's see if we have the will, how we can and should do it. We said in that plenary and we remember it today: the General Councils of Bizkaia, for example, approved in 2007 a standard for the recovery of public aid, at least in the case of business relocations. That rule lays down a number of conditions. We believe that this is a step; we believe that more needs to be done and that this Parliament needs to take some more step. That's why we brought this proposal today. We proposed to ask him to come forward in two months' time to ensure his attachment to the region of corporations and a law project to prevent decorations-a rule to guarantee it. And in this we planned that social conditions should be established in the hands of public money, in which to maintain employment and labor conditions, to prevent companies from decorating and to guarantee a collective negotiation. We have seen the proposals made by other groups, and I think it will be admitted in all cases, if I am not mistaken, that there is a question, and that many things which happen are unjust. That, I think, is what everyone sees in our conversations, but then what we have to do next is to deal with what we have to do with it. We've agreed to a middle course today with the Social Party. What we agreed on is not what we proposed. That's clear and clear, and I'm telling you, we were going beyond us. We think we ought to be braver, too. That fun should regulate the conditions of public money when it's given, so that what's happening today doesn't happen, or at least, to prevent people from hearing it, to make it harder. From our point of view, the one we agreed to, it takes a little step, opens the doors in the direction we defend it. And that's why we agreed. Hala ere, erdibidekoan azken batan Jaurlaritzari eskatzen zaiona honako hau da: "Develop policies necessary to combat relocation, achieve job maintenance and working conditions and promote and encourage territorial linkage in those companies that are likely to move their plants or production elsewhere". In the second place, it's like: "A Considera el carecter reinter y en su caso, exigir el reitergro de aquallas ajudas plublicas y subvenciones..." Here he mentions "que no se realicen con cargos a fandos de la Unión Europe." We're planning on the friendships that's happening to you through the budget, and you're setting up a few terms for that. Hence, we say from our point of view that it is a very direct step that we should like to be deeper and bolder in time. But until now, we haven't seen any political desire to help you to take steps like this and put them under conditions, and we don't think it's acceptable to us, as I've just mentioned. We think if these measures don't take place in Aernovan and other companies, what's going to happen will happen again. And the workers are finally losers, no doubt, and will continue to be losers and continue to destroy jobs. That's why we're hoping to make fun of you taking a few steps this way. After all, when we talk about the active implication, we're talking about this too. That's the essence of today's discussion, from our point of view, and we hope the discussion itself is at least valid for something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro... He won't say a word. Basque Socialists represent the group. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u101	Thank you very much, President. Indeed, the issue that is coming up for discussion today arises from the episode that took place with the aim of carrying out an ERE by the company Aernnova. This has changed into a general proposal to protect employment, to avoid relocation. And, therefore, the debate would focus above all on what measures to take against this phenomenon. However, the episode of Aernnova, in my view, does leave some reflections that, even without conclusions, allow me to highlight. The first of these is that, in view of the argument put forward with great emphasis in recent times that quality employment is based precisely on innovation, development, research, here we see that a company that is paradigmatic in this type of element already posed a destruction of employment. Therefore, that appeal I believe that it will have to be put in question in the future, at least. Another reflection that comes to my mind on this issue is the appeal to the need for companies to grow in size. That can certainly be beneficial, but I don't know if for the social side too. For the economic part, sure, but when companies grow in size, they are forced to compete with others of the same rank, and the phenomenon of relocation, which is what I am going to enter now directly, is a model that ends up being imitated. He ends up competing with him. And then we see that relocation is a non-local phenomenon, not just here, but it is a universal and widespread phenomenon everywhere. The reasons and causes for this can be multiple, but ultimately all the reasons lead to lower costs, or to working conditions that are more beneficial for companies. In this situation, the national, regional governments, in short, the executives of every jaez, will always try to protect their industrial fabric, to try to maintain it. But this phenomenon easily escapes the laws, easily escapes the general purposes of maintaining them. And in what we call globalization, the transhumance of companies, above all of a multinational nature, is more than obvious, leaving behind this corollary of destruction of employment and industrial desertification where there has been a tradition. To this we must also add that Europe, I understand, does not have a very defined industrial policy either; Spain, nor do I count. And, in addition to all this, the lack of fiscal harmonisation, the competition between regions to encourage localisation, with the consequent relocation, brings us to the end a problem that is not easy to solve. Euskal Herria Bildu, when he makes his proposal to us, puts it, as is the case with his political culture, in terms that a regulatory proposal would eventually resolve and resolve this issue. If so, other Governments would probably have taken such measures, and that did not appear to have been the solution or the formula that solved the problems. We allowed ourselves to think that... And without putting much emphasis, because we do not put so much emphasis on the issue of aid. The aid, when it is given, when it is registered, has a raison d'être, it responds to policies that are being sponsored by governments, and that is where the subsidies come from. That cannot prejudge future decisions. But it is also true that there are companies that, very opportunistically, sometimes seek to root for convenience, precisely in the heat of aid that can arise, of cost reduction and so on, and then, at the moment when they find more competitive locations, leave compound and without boyfriend who needs it. That is why we allowed ourselves to think that the regulation of subsidies and aid will always be reintegrated into those aid that can be deservedly granted, yes, but with the commitment that these companies remain in place. If companies have as their future option the strategy of being able to leave at a given time, they should assess whether or not they are worthy of the aid. Because if at any given time the strategy of relocation is better served for their purposes, for their economic interests, it is an option that cannot be prevented, but at least that they do not opt for them, or, if they opt for them, that they know the provisional nature, until they decide not to stay here. And that is why we were making our amendment, and I thank Euskal Herria Bildu for considering it as reasonable to subscribe to it. We would have liked the agreement to be extended and to concern more groups in this House, especially the Nationalist Party, which also had an amendment. It has not been possible, because this debate is certainly much broader and more complex than what we can discuss here in this short time. However, we believe, Mr Tellería, that the proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu and the Socialist Group subscribe to is not anathema. The consolidated text of the budgetary principles of the Basque Finance provides, as a general rule, for the rules governing the system of aid and subsidies, and points out in Article 49.5 that, following the approval of each annual budget of the Autonomous Community, it will be necessary to update and revise, where appropriate, or to lay down rules governing the granting of programme grants and to make the relevant call. That is to say, this consolidated text speaks of the fact that after the approval of each budget there is a revision of the rules governing the granting of grants. That is why we understood that it was an opportune time to put forward the proposal to consider the reintegration of these subsidies if in the future the recipient companies decide to disappear from our geography. That is why we were making the proposal, and I would like to express the wish that it can be shared with the rest of the groups. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u102	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u103	The head of the table, chief of the department, members of the legislature. Good noon, everyone. When I saw the motion, I saw a specific case that was trying to extrapolate to the general system, to the general subsidy legislation. And I realized that, as the Pisuerga passes through Valladolid, through Berantevilla passes the River Ayuda, and I thought: they have drawn the conclusion aide-Berantevilla, subsidies-Euskadi. Although someone can think differently too, because by Berantevilla also passes another river, the Red. Let's get to business. Communion, associations, or individuals, are one of the methods most commonly used by the administration to make politics. By this means they promote what governments want, giving public money to those who are under the conditions of assistance. Subsidies are supported by legislation which regulates them and which requires, in each of their decrees and regulatory orders, a number of legal requirements that must be met, regardless of the particular clauses of each, clauses that depend on the incentive interest of each of the decrees. The most widespread thing is that the regulatory decrees require minimums that, if not complied with, prevent the granting, as they are, generally, to be aware of payments to the Treasury and payments to the Social Security, and, in general terms, in the case of companies, many, the audited accounts of the last year. With these data, it's usually enough information to know that the company has no debts and that it has cause to be faced with investments that are supported. From that point on, we demand a project to be done, even its quantitation, to the extent of its realism and capacity of technical services. All this, according to his order, is not the same as a decree for a renewal of technology, one who intends to promote employment, or to resist a crisis. Y auí esta el sou, la custión. Bildu's motion seeks to ensure that the government's subsidy policy captures the territorial link between companies, as well as social clauses – so, in general – among which only the maintenance of working conditions is requested. And all this because there is a concrete reading – and I understand that it is subjective – of the R & D grant to a company, Aernnova. Apart from the fact that it is not best to decontextualise a case, just as the R & D grant requires carrying out research, subsidies for productive incentives or job creation require territorial linkage, they are already demanding it. It is that a motion is presented that seems that nothing is required! The EU itself, in the State aid guidelines and in the Regulation on aid compatible with the internal market, states: "In order to ensure that the investment makes an effective and sustained contribution to the development of the area concerned, the investment must be maintained in that area for at least five years, or three years in the case of SMEs, since its completion". Since the end of the investment. And the aid from the Basque Government's Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness, such as Gauzatu or Indartu, which are the instruments for stimulating productive investment, meets the standard. If this requirement is not met, the aid is requested to be returned, as has already happened in some cases. The European Union has also foreseen the possibility of promotements of productive investments by providing the expense of labor with money. We don't use that opportunity here, we demand a few deadlines to maintain a job. Anyway, Dimatual and Force programs have the minimal working conditions, they make an extended application, and they establish the requirements imposed on it. Having said that, and knowing that the Basque Government is in compliance with the relevant rules, we can discuss the opportunity or the legality of imposing conditions that go beyond the object of the subsidy, and not from a single case. If this is about boosting productive investment in companies, we should look at whether or not the three or five-year period after the end of the investment is sufficient, and why. If it's not five, how much does it have to be? Ten, twenty? Does anyone have the formula to obtain the link in secula seculorum of the companies through the subsidies? Does anyone know her? Can we solve that through a law, through a non-law proposition? In view of the transaction, however, I see that something has been put behind them. And since we already apply EU legislation in the Basque Country, it does not seem optimal, in any case, to move from the regulatory environment in which we are. Moreover, if territorial links are used for any aid to any company, however small this aid may be, we would be breaking the rules of the internal market, while putting it far more difficult for our own companies than the rest of Europe puts it to its own. Let's see if with that system we are going to relocate companies, that we have to walk very carefully in the balances that are maintained in these things. An investment aid cannot be treated under the same standard to make a new ship or to buy a whole new machine that the marketing aid, an R & D aid that the one to equip three fellows to a company. And the transaction deals with all the aids under the same standard, all of them. That was our problem. Not a positive reading of the need for the Government to make policies to achieve or achieve, to the extent it can, the linkage; no, it is all under the same standards. With regard to the social clauses (the second part) linked to subsidies, I have already explained to them that compliance with the strictest legality is required, with a view to payments to the Treasury and social security. But there is no subsidy that can legally require specific working conditions, beyond the existing legal framework for labour relations. Each grant order shall require compliance with the undertaking in the application and compliance with the law in force, including that of the relevant labour regulations. But there is so much passion for public control of the private that we are facing two worlds: that of the public of the subsidies granted by the Administration and that of the private relations between workers and companies, which, by the way, are already subject to their legality. Productive subsidies, at least, do not seem directly to enhance the social conditions of the workers, but indirectly. In fact, we hope that if the investment is real, we can achieve these improvements, both for the continuation of the company, and for the increase of its efficiency. And that's the purpose of making me happy, by political means of helping people who have been planned and managed corporations with money. We believe that only with the continued support of the effort can a business fabric be achieved clinging to a territory in which they feel protected, helped and valued. And only by complying with the law and following the guidelines of the European Union, will we achieve more and more quality jobs, and not with demands that go beyond the law and the reasonable and coherently required to achieve the objectives pursued. Subsidy policy for enterprises is economic and not social aid, and it exists to the extent that it achieves the settlement, development and maintenance of a business fabric, all of which is positive for generating employment, and quality employment. But under no circumstances do we understand that the policy of subsidies is an instrument to intervene in labour relations. The whole legislature is working for making jobs, making jobs of quality, which no one can deny. In order to improve the conditions of the workers, a proper policy of assistance is required to encourage enpresization, innovation, and internationalization. There's no other way. And that's what he's doing. He's doing what he's doing through his plan, initiative, and funding. It can be seen, in short, that EH Bildu has ended up assuming part of the certainly irrationalness of his original motion and has withdrawn certain aspects in the transaction carried out, renouncing that generality of social clauses. In conclusion, the changes, which are not enough, have been because they themselves have seen that their motion is in some way doubly contradictory of origin. On the one hand, they have tried to generalise from a concrete subjective reading, and, on the other, they suggest controlling private relations from public cooperation. Contradiction. And although Werber already said that "Contradiction is the engine of thought", with which we could thank them that with their contradiction they help us to think, thank God the philosopher Ayn Rand clarified to them that "Contradictions do not exist. And every time you think you're up against one, look into the premises and you'll find that one is wrong." Well, let's go find her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing over to the non-correction teams, Misto-UPyD has withdrawn, now it's his turn. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u105	Very briefly. Only to say that I will vote in favour of the amendment put forward by the PNV. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u106	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u107	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Given the initial initiative that gives rise to this debate, I think we could all agree on the concern about the situation of workers in the Basque Country; about those who have jobs, those who have no jobs and the conditions of those who have jobs, so that they do not fail, to keep them, even to improve them. And the end seems positive to me. Even coming from an inquiry, taking out the concrete case of the Aernnova workers, the end is interesting. But it is that the initiative we have been asked is a propaganda initiative, it is nothing else, it has nothing else. To urge the Government to present to us here in two months such a complex bill for such a delicate matter, of dubious legality in some of the aspects that have been discussed today in this rostrum, is absolutely impossible. It is to corner the Government to tell it in the next election period that it has not fulfilled Parliament's mandates. Obviously, I am not here to protect the government, but that seems to me to be a dirty game, a spurious initiative that plays with the interests of the workers, in this particular case with those of Aernnova. It seems to me that we need to be much more serious when it comes to putting forward initiatives. That rule that was being asked for, on which it now seems that there is no interest in it in the transaction, could have been presented directly by you if you are so familiar with the matter and so concerned, because that is why you have parliamentary initiative. But they do not bring it here, because they know that it will not go forward, so it is complex to detail precisely those measures to prevent the relocation of companies. The relocation of businesses that can be due to many reasons, and many of them can be caused by the government's own inaction. We are already seeing how this Government is managing active employment policies. I don't think the result is exactly like a medal. He's not creating a job. We're going at a very, very slow pace. And this inactivity of the Government can lead to a burden on those companies that have benefited from certain subsidy lines at the time they have to close because the company does not work or has to leave. In other words, we would doubly punish the entrepreneur, who is the one who has to create wealth here. Therefore, I think it is an extremely sensitive matter and to analyse point by point, line by line, in each of the grants or types of grants that we are given here. And there may be some who should join the territory, preventing these companies from leaving at the time they are beneficiaries of these subsidies. Others don't. They wouldn't have to put everything in the same package. And that's exactly what's going to put us back when it comes to supporting that transaction. It's impossible. We cannot punish a company that has created a number of jobs for a certain period of time, and has received subsidies to promote equality between workers, between men and women workers in the company, for a period of time and the possibility of opening a line or all production lines in other areas. And I also think that we are seeing this whole debate from a very negative point of view. I believe that in the Basque Country we have enough limbs to make our territory attractive. What needs to be done here is not to punish the companies that come to create jobs; what needs to be done is an attractive territory for those companies to come. We don't have to punish them if it turns out we don't like the use they give to subsidies. We have to create an attractive territory so that all companies, those here and those outside, come and believe wealth, do not put obstacles on them. Above all, when these obstacles run counter to applicable state legislation, to our own legislation emanating from this Parliament and to European legislation. Freedom must be respected – and I know that you do not like that very much – even the freedom of entrepreneurs to decide where they are set up, what time and with what intention they are set up. And that's what's going to allow us to generate wealth, which is what's really going to allow us to raise and maintain the conditions of all workers in the long run. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u108	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u109	Mr. Tellegio, I hope you understood something more than the names and colours of the rivers. but, as has been said before, we have many instances in Aranca, Biscaia, and Gipuzicus, and also in Navarrus, which have the same condition. I've mentioned some of them before. Others too perhaps, if some are not so well known: Ingemar, Gomethegui... And, as I mention Navarre, there's also TRW's case. However, it is clear to me that you, the present day, defend the present, may be assured of what is now. And what we see is quite contrary, that what is now is not sufficient, and that in one day and another there are injustices like Aternnova. And in front of that, we really believe that institutions can do something else. Look, it's curious. I said TRW Navarre's case is very similar, right? A company who's received public money, who's had benefits, now has announced the prayer expedition and the emission expedition. What's the demand for workers, all the unions? What we're asking for here, in a way. That the justification of the use of public money received must be demanded of the company, that it must be resisted, that public funds cannot be collected to maintain companies in the world, as long as it lets the natives sink. And I don't know if you saw him, but in the march, I think there were representatives of almost all the political groups we're here, and that these workers had all the support of all the teams at Navar Parliament. I think, because of what we're seeing here today, we're still so far from this state of legislation, I'm afraid. I'm afraid so. Again, it is said (which is repeated over and over in this parliament): "We cannot do it; we are not capable of it. That's private. The rule does not allow us to do this, it is not legal, it is impossible." I have mentioned it before: if it were a will, there would be a way of finding rules among us all. If only there was will. It's a problem that he's not here. And we want to clear up one thing to the collective Poptular: Our proposal does not mean against the firm, our proposal is to protect the workers and the job. And to have a rule, I have, in itself, quoted the rule of the first Biscay, a positive thing. It exists. Let us take this way of doing something else for three countries. And because it's a rule that there won't be a November, there won't be a prayer expedition, he won't be fired? No, I know. But there will be another obstacle to them, and they will find it more difficult for those who would do wrong. And there's not all the companies. Those that are and we know. and to them they must be subject to difficulties, and they must be resisted. People who want to do injustice. And at least that's what we're talking about. I'll give you another example. We've known the Games case these days. It was also a part of the Games that got a lot of money from origin as a part of the administration, protection, etc. Now it's as if another company, Siemens, might have a chance or a chance to buy, and there's a risk of keeping the decision here too. I believe that institutions are not only a matter of responsibility, care, and precautions. And that's why we defend what we defend. And we believe it to be possible, that being will, it is possible. I can see that today even the middle-class that we agreed on won't take a step. We didn't withdraw anything, Mr. Tellegioía. We tried to agree in the right direction. It won't be coming out today, but we're sure that sooner than later we're going to have to take measures like this, because it's necessary to protect the thousands of workers between us and protect the Araba, the Gipus and the Bitz. So we'll continue the discussion. And meanwhile, encouraging the workers of Aternova. And we, at least, will continue to fight.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Sousse.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u111	I believe that the positions that are to be shown here have more to do with an aesthetic and alignment issue than with the real probative content of this compromise amendment. And I'm going to stop a little bit at what he says. At the first point, what it says is: "in order to combat relocation" – we have agreed that it is a phenomenon that is not welcome – "favor and encourage to avoid relocation". Does anyone here believe that this is not done anywhere, favouring and encouraging the maintenance of businesses in the place where they reside and preventing their relocation? Policies that favor and encourage, I think they're being done. So, I don't see any anathema in all of this. The other point states that "the aim is to safeguard the principles of public interest and effective management of economic resources". I think this is evidence. I have mentioned earlier the computer principles of the Basque Treasury, where aid and subsidies are regulated in Title VI. There is no distinction between the stratification of such aid (whether it is training, job creation, innovation, productive investment, etc.); it is generally spoken, and it is also envisaged that it can be reintegrated when requirements are not met. And when we talk about the effective management of public resources, we are talking about whether the government grants public aid and subsidies. There is something Parliament will have to say about this. And at the moment Parliament is debating and taking a decision on it. And to suggest that it will not be possible to prevent... Indeed, companies are going to have that freedom to move from one side to another and no one is going to be able to stop it. But does it seem reasonable to you that training should be financed or aided by training and that training should end up in the interests of another region or elsewhere? Or job creation? In the end, the destinations of these aids are to consolidate an industrial fabric, to create employment, to maintain it, to make progress. And, therefore, if, in the end, companies disappear from the scene after having received the aid, perhaps it is by force majeure; but it also happens that there are business initiatives that are very adventurous, very opportunistic and that know where the aid is most juicy, but not for the purpose of parking indefinitely, but to take the aid and, when necessary, move. That is why, Mr. Telleria, when I heard you talk about defending legality in that way, I remembered almost the government delegate, with that vehemence. I believe that the legality of this proposal is not in question; what is being called upon is the government, which I understand is already doing so. I do not think that this will change their culture, but what we urge you to do is to promote and encourage, with policies to be developed, the maintenance of businesses and employment. And it's not a deterrent measure. It's simply that you can't reward those who are finally in time, in the medium or long term, not thinking about corporate responsibility or not thinking about the needs of the territory, but only about its benefits, which is very legitimate. But when we talk about companies, we talk about companies as a whole and forget that companies are made up of two elements, an antithetical binomial: capital and work. And when we say that companies have certain things coming to them, we have to determine which part of the company is coming to, because when these measures constitute a threat, for example, to the social part, there are obviously political forces that have to intervene to say: "Man, we believe that we must also protect the social part", that they cannot leave it at the mercy of these phenomena of our time, that at one point they leave you, on the return of vacation, without work and decomposed. So, this is not going to correct, much less, that phenomenon, we know. This is not going to be enough to deter businesses when they see fit to go somewhere else. But at least they will not benefit from everyone's public resources to increase their know-how to do or improve their productive systems, then end up benefiting other places and other regions, which can be lawful, but I understand that not with our resources.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u112	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u113	Mahaiburu's walking. I think I'll be brief. I have the feeling that the amendments in the compromise have not read the general rules on subsidies very well, nor have all the grant decrees of the Department of Economic Development been read in detail. Although, Mrs Arrondo, if you want to differentiate between you and me, I invite you to read what you have done and the proposal, the amendment we are submitting. It is that we both make exactly the same progress, we make progress in asking the Government to try to do everything possible for something that concerns us, which is territorial linkage. You don't ask the transactional to change anything. They tell the government: "Look at how he has it and give it a thought." That's what they do, which is what we do too: we ask for a thought. Because basically you do not know whether to change or not, or whether to change or not, because we are subject to regulations which, in our group, we are committed to meeting, which are the Community regulations. In any case, almost all the aid, so that they know, has Community co-financing. Almost all of them, not all of them. And the concern, we too have it as much as you do. And in the specific case that you have taken out of Aernnova, don't you remember how the Economic Development and Competitiveness Councillor and the deputy general of Araba came out in front of what the company was doing? That is a public display of our real concern. That is always the method to be used? No, that's an extreme method, surely. By the way, just a curiosity – forgive me, Mr.Itxaso. I've been talking about Bildu's contradictions. You have one, because the amendment that I have tabled here on behalf of the Basque Nationalist Party is the one that you and we signed and approved at Gipuzkoa General Councils. Think about it, but the pacts are the pacts and the agreements are the agreements, and the Gipuzkoa PSE and the PSE here I believe is the same. What's more, you're more of the Gipuzcoan PSE. But, well, that's for dropping it. And watch out for territorial connections, watch out. So much commitment to territorial linkages. I have already told you that the rules of the Basque Government apply that of the European Union and require the territorial link of productive investments. And it requires the maintenance of employment when there are subsidies to create employment, logically. But to me sometimes so much obsession with territorial bonding... I'm just going to give them an example. There is an administration, the central of Madrid, that has invented a system to engage in a territorial connection that we do not like either of us, which is called the Garoña nuclear power station. I have reviewed multiple grants to companies of different types in the past legislature, which granted the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council, governed by Bildu. I've reviewed them. I control more farms than others, but also the others: those of internationalization, those of aid to marketing... And, with everything I've been looking for, I haven't found any reference to any social clause or any territorial connection. Finally, as Buddha said, "as beautiful flowers with color but without aroma, are the sweet words for those who do not work according to them." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u114	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Euscala Popular's representative. Mr. Abulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u115	Thank you, President. Mrs Arrondo, the problem I think has been that from the text with which we started the debate or from the intention with which the debate began, even in the context of the inquiry, to how it is ending and to what has been said here there is an abyss, there is a total change. I return to the beginning of my debate. We, and I believe that all the members of this House, are very concerned about the situation of the Aernnova workers, of course we are. And many other companies. But from there to the conclusions that are going to come out or can come out of this speech, I insist that the distance is very large, and you can even skip the legality. Of course, it is necessary to control where public money goes, but not to avoid relocation; among other things, to avoid clientelism, for example, or the creation of fictitious businesses that live only under the public subsidy. That seems to me to be fundamental, and it is an important task of control that this Parliament has to do to the government, on each and every one of these grant lines. But what you are proposing today, especially in that second point (not in what you originally proposed), in that second point of the transaction you have signed with the Socialist Party, is that all the aid and subsidies, all of them, be returned at the time when a situation of relocation occurs. That someone has to take production in whole or in part outside the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country... What if he goes from Araia to Alsasua too? What if he goes from Oyon to Logroño too? I mean that a company may have higher interests to have to move part of the production, and that's why it's going to have to return all the aid? Those generics are impossible to fulfill. And that is why I insist that it seems to me that you have come here to use or take advantage of the rights of some workers and the concern of some workers to make an electoral speech or a political speech that is really empty, because what you have initially raised is impossible to achieve and the final compromise you have reached with the Socialist Party is not possible to achieve. When we are asked to control where the money of all citizens goes, via these lines of subsidies, one by one, they will find us. But, of course, in empty and empty speeches they will not find us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u116	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Middle Amendment signed by EH Collect and Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; supporters 35; the opponents of the enemy, 38; white, 0; abscesssion, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u117	So the middle cut correction didn't work out. We'll next vote for the general correction of the US patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 38; opponents 35; white, 0; abstation, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u118	As a result, the US patriots have accepted the corrections of the team. Next I'll read two institutions of expression. The institutional expression of the Basque parliament, of the Conceptary Biscaia of Setsta. "The Contained Biscaia Steel Society (ACB) belonging to theArcelorMittal team has announced that it will be temporarily closed. In front of this the Basque legislature has decided the following institutional expression: "At these difficult moments the law of the Eus represents a complete solidarity with all the workers of the Setaor of the Armoons and assistants of the Sedagle and Company, and demands that the management of this work should be carried on with the deputy of a conversation, in order to agree with the measures necessary to obtain the production as soon as possible, by the conditions of the planilla. "The Basque Parliament highlights the effort made since 2009 by the company and all the employees, which has facilitated, through dialogue and agreement, various flexibility measures that have made it possible to overcome all the problems that have arisen during these years. In this regard, it asks the management of the company to keep workers' representatives constantly informed of all the steps it will take, in order to avoid the uncertainty in which hundreds of families and the entire region of the Left Margin live today. "The Basque Parliament considers it essential that the strengthening of industrial projects in Basque, and especially in disadvantaged areas, be achieved with the involvement of the institutional social actors, as is being done in the presentation created in the Basque Parliament, and therefore requests the Basque Government to coordinate with these actors in all the actions it takes to defend the maintenance of the activity at the ArcelorMittal plant in Sestao or any other company in the Basque Country. "So the Eusune appeals to M. M. M. M. M.M., from what has been stated before, to force the measures which will be directed to reopen the production center in front of the European Union, and to prevent the execution of certain economics, such as China, in order to stop the disloyal competition, and even to re-establish the price of energy, because this price is now in jeopardy with several industrial projects and thousands of jobs." Institutional expression contrary to genetic power. "The U.S. Act of the U.A. wants to reject the murder of little Alicia, which happened last week at Gaste. Alicia is the victim of a new incident in the machista of machista. The law represents its protection and woe to the relatives and closest members of Alicia, and to the relatives and closest members of the other victims. "The Basque Parliament condemns these attacks, as well as any manifestations of violence against women or sexual discrimination. We understand that gender-based violence is the most serious expression of inequalities between women and men, resulting from women's power relations and submission. "The American law invites the citizens to adopt a personal and collective commitment for the equality of women and men. In like manner, these institutions are responsible for destroying violence, so we ask them to make plans for all the resources they need, and to let the matter disappear once and for all. The goal is that no attack against women should come again, and still less like the murder of little Alicia." After that we'll have a minute's silence for Alicia. [[Pause]] I interrupt the entire meeting until four-fifteen. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-six. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at seventeen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u119	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Number of points in theme list: "The other bill made by the Socialists of Euscal, as well as by the law of the legislature, as to abolish legal imposts for small and middling companies and foreign institutions. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Gallastegui, representative of the Basque Socialists, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u120	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to greet all the people who are with us today: representatives and lawyers, business associations, self-government and non-governmental organizations. The parents, in short, of this initiative. Good afternoon to all of them and thank you so much for coming. As I am sure you will remember, this is not the first time we have talked about court fees in this House, but I hope – and I hope not to be confused too – that it is the last, at least as far as requesting their repeal or modification is concerned. Because everything seems to indicate that at the next plenary session of the Constitutional Court, which intends to deal with the appeal submitted by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that it was the first of many to be brought before it, as well as several questions of unconstitutionality, it seems, as I say, that this appeal will be estimated and that the higher fixed rates and all the variable rates will be declared unconstitutional. Because, as has been stated without rest since its establishment, and with an extraordinary consensus, not only by the legal operators, lawyers, prosecutors, notaries, but also by the higher courts of justice, the Office of the Prosecutor, consumer associations, users, trade unions and social organizations of all kinds and conditions, what has become clear is that these rates fly, invigorating article 24 of the Constitution by violating the fundamental right to effective judicial protection. And I do not remember to date a law that has aroused so much opposition and rejection in all social sectors, but I do remember, and I remember it perfectly, that it was not by chance, but by the pressure of all those people who are here today and who represent numerous social groups, and thanks also to this Parliament and other institutions, so the Spanish Government had to rectify some of those rates initially envisaged. But the truth is that judicial fees limit rights, continue to limit rights, violate constitutional rights, so that, no doubt, sooner or later, such a decision will be taken by the Constitutional Council, which, as I said, is expected as soon as possible. The Socialists have been saying this loud and clear and repeatedly: the Law on Judicial Fees is not only one of the most regressive laws to be remembered, but it was born clear and affluently unconstitutional, because it violates on the face, but not by right, the possibility of access to justice for all people, for all citizens, on equal terms, because it enshrines justice for the rich and for the poor. And the government that did knew it perfectly well. And it must be recognized that – to give Caesar what is Caesar's and God's what is God's – he achieved his main purpose, which was to limit access to justice and to deter citizenship from going to court. Because, in our view, it is clear – I think it is fairly clear, and I think no one doubts this – that there is an almost absolute deterrent effect, when, for example, administrative sanctions, small-scale fines are claimed, because in reality the cost of the fee sometimes exceeds the cost of the penalty itself. And this not only limits citizens' access to justice, but also has another perverse effect, and it is not guaranteed as the prohibition of the arbitrariness of public authorities should be ensured. The same is true of the recourse procedure in the second instance and of civil or administrative cassation, where the rates significantly exceed the inter-professional minimum wage, which involves devoting to the rate a very large percentage of the monthly income of the persons. There are many examples. But the summary is that it is a law that irremediably affects the possibility of claiming and demanding justice, and that had the virtue even of consecrating the whip of...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u121	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u122	Yes, it's very interesting! I don't know why they don't listen to me, ladies and gentlemen. ...we have moved from effective judicial protection to cash judicial protection. As I have already commented and as you already know, a year ago, mainly due to the pressure of legal operators, institutions, etc., Mr Rajoy's Government approved in Royal Decree Law 1/2015 the exemption from the tax on natural persons, but to date the judicial fees for some non-profit entities, such as NGOs (non-governmental organizations), are still being maintained. And they also continue to be maintained for small and medium-sized enterprises and self-employed, those entities covered by the law as having a small size that pay corporate tax. Mostly, they are small businesses, which on many occasions are only two self-employed workers who have a corporate figure (e.g. a limited company), and many self-employed, and they are the subjects most negatively affected by these rates; and more in a situation, such as the current one, of economic crisis, since they are unable to go to justice simply because they cannot bear the burden of paying them. They cannot claim, for example, non-payment for work as usual as renovating or painting a house, or replacing the tap, or renovating a bathroom. In order to be able to claim a debt that has caused them in their personal economy, in their societies, in their work, a terrible hole, they must pay fees, not knowing when the matter is going to be seen, whether or not they are going to win the procedure, and whether or not they are going to be able to execute that sentence or not and ultimately charge the actual debt. In addition to uncertainty about the result of a lithium, tax. And if that non-payment is made by an administration, let's shut down and let's go, because the contentious-administrative jurisdiction provides for fees higher than those of civil jurisdiction, and that aside from the fact that the sentence on costs for public administrations, although foreseen, is no more, as you know, than a toast to the sun. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that it is peaceful to consider that the Justice Administration is a service that needs far-reaching improvements and reforms such as food. It needs to improve and facilitate citizens' access to justice. It needs to substantially improve and reduce resolution times, substantially improve personal and material means, and improve its structure. But the law has not met one of those supposed laudable goals: it has not improved service, it has not helped to sustain or improve the cost of judicial activity, it has not contributed in any way... Moreover, the ministry does not know where the money for court fees is, and has therefore not contributed to the provision of free justice, which was one of its objectives. Not one of the backlogs has been reduced; moreover, the courts are making observations at times far greater than those that were previously. In short, there is only one thing clear, unquestionable, and it is that judicial fees limit rights, limit our rights. And all this initiative intends to do is get them back. Today we take a small but firm step in that endeavour, and we will also strive whenever we need to. And that is why we are presenting this initiative, at the initiative of all these groups that are represented there today. And we have achieved a compromise amendment, which I believe is impervious for everyone to support. Fundamentally, because, among other things, there is going to be a ruling by the Constitutional Court in that regard. I thank the groups that have negotiated with the Socialist Group, both the Basque Nationalist group and the EH Bildu group, for the willingness to dialogue, for the agreement. And I would ask the rest of the groups for support, which should, of course, be in favour of the content of the compromise amendment. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. It is your move.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u124	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Socialist Group, in its justification, speaks of justice as the basic pillar of the democratic system and points out that justice is the seventh word in our Constitution. He points to the justification for his initiative that justice must be exercised by an independent judiciary, with sufficient means to serve society, with an efficient system of free justice for those in need. And we are very interested in his appeal to independent justice, since today justice in Spain is not independent and politicized. It is colonized by the main Spanish political parties. We usually say this on numerous occasions and today is also a good time to remember it: justice in Spain is colonized by political parties and is also colonized by the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. The General Council of the Judiciary is colonized, the Supreme Court is colonized and the Constitutional Court is colonized. And in addition, no steps have been taken to suppress the strangulations. On this point, I encourage the Socialist Group, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, Mr Pedro Sánchez, even Mr Ares, to include in their forthcoming negotiations with the rest of the political parties to facilitate the investiture of Mr Pedro Sánchez and to form a new government in Spain, this claim as an absolutely indispensable claim to also regenerate politics in Spain: the need to decolonize the justice of political parties. It would be a good step towards the regeneration of democracy. And Mr. Pedro Sánchez and Mr. Ares, too, I think they have that possibility open, whether or not it will be reflected in the next few days and weeks. Mrs Gallastegui makes a detailed political chronology of the facts that bring us to today's debate. The 2012 law re-implements in Spain the judicial fees of a general nature, following their abolition by Law 25/1986 of 24 December 1986 on the abolition of judicial fees. The Law of 20 November 2012 establishes judicial fees in Spain on a general basis and allocates them to such high amounts that, rather than merely having a collection character, they seem to claim a deterrent effect that directly affects constitutional protection rights. This justification also rightly points out that since the law came into force, numerous constitutional remedies have been lodged, numerous issues of unconstitutionality have been raised, remedies for defenceless litigants have been instituted, and the Ombudsman recommended that they be amended in due course. It is correct that its justification also recalls that by Royal Decree Law 3/2013 of 22 February, the law is slightly amended, lowering the variable fee, but does not take into account that the Constitutional Court only admits fees when for their amount they do not prevent access to jurisdiction for economic reasons, and that has been the effect that it has produced, by not taking into account the establishment of the fees the economic capacity of the taxable person. It recalls in this justification some of the estimates made by the defender of the Andalusian people in relation to the 2012 law, and rightly points out that this law has not solved the problem of delays in the Basque justice system and has denied access to justice to those who have not been able to pay the judicial fees imposed. It recalls the insufficient amendments authorized by Royal Decree Law 1/2015 of 27 February 2015 to finally propose the repeal of the judicial fees set out in that Law, as they violate effective judicial guardianship and prevent the defence of the litigants by constituting a disproportionate and dissuasive charge, regardless of the economic capacity of the subject, impossible to pay for non-profit entities and taxable persons who are considered to be small entities. We therefore agree with what is raised in that justification and with the proposal. We already knew that justice, a pillar of the democratic system, is not the same for all in Spain. There are clear examples that have an impact on this, such as the politicization of justice, the stumbling blocks, the Botín doctrine at the time it was applied or also the judicial fees. At the time, UPyD presented in the Congress of Deputies a comprehensive amendment to this law, the sole objective of which was to collect and deter, generating new barriers to access to justice, although the claim to alleviate the saturation situation of the courts had been claimed. We therefore share the ideas gathered by the Socialist Group, and also the ideas contained in the compromise that has been signed, but we had doubts about point 2 of the original initiative, point 2 of the compromise amendment. In the full amendment tabled by UPyD in Congress, we referred to article 11, considering that its application involves a flagrant violation of the Law on Public Fees and Prices, which states that they must be used exclusively to cover the cost of the service or activity that constitutes the taxable act, without, under any circumstances, being linked to another service, in this case to free justice. Hence our doubts about the original initiative, and hence our amendment calling for the deletion of point 2. In any case, our priority, as set out in our amendment, is to restore justice as a true pillar of the democratic system, and that goes both for its depoliticization and for ensuring access to justice for all citizens. We can therefore conclude that we generally share what is proposed in this compromise, and will therefore vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u125	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. From EH Collect, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u126	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. We speak of justice, or of injustice on the other side of the coin. The right of receiving the effective protection of justice may be violated by different reasons. Sometimes these reasons are political. The five defendants have suffered thus; they are at liberty to-day, but the injustice they received is insensible. We're trying to tell them how to support them from here. Let the deliverance be the last political question. There are other reasons, or other elements, which hinder or aggravat the right of obtaining justice: economic reasons. Of course: Justice, like a snake, bites those who are barefoot. There are rich and poor in our society. It's sad, pitiful, but it's like a constantation. The politicals, driven by the popular party, have been for some and against others, so that the rich may be richer and poorer. From this logic they sought to impose a justice for the rich, for those who can afford justice, and for the poor who cannot afford it. To call the latter justice is perhaps too much, and better to call it injustice. Moreover, this system established with the law 10/2010 is supposed to pay twice a public service, a service which we all pay, a service which we pay on taxes, that compels you to pay again when you have to use that service. This subject was justly treated in this legislature, when we set forth this legislation, on the 31st of January 2013. I have reviewed the current interferences, and have found that the judicial fees were justly condemned in our discourses. Since the first discussion, we already pointed out that the tas had violated the fundamental right to secure the effective protection of justice. Justice is a public service, and that is why we accused the tas of preventing the establishment of this public service, the execution of this public service. It was not accepted, but we requested that the Constitutional Court should give them decisions about it, and by giving them an incontinence. Today, Mrs. Gallaustegui tells us that the Constitutional Court will give a positive answer to another appeal, and that it is also with great certainty. So be it. From the Tribunals, from the legal, from the professional, from the social, from the political, from the institution, I believe that these rates have been exempted from certain sectors or particular cases. The rates provided for in Law 10/2012 have been decreasing, having had a slowing pace. I want to think that because of the pressure from legal operators, professionals, users and also, I hope, for positions such as those we are going to adopt here today. A few months after the entry into force of Law 10/2012, Royal Decree Law 3/2013 modified the regime, lowering the variable fee. Subsequently, the Royal Decree Law 1/2015, of second chance mechanism, reduction of financial burden and other social measures, introduced certain exemptions to the payment of fees, mainly the exemption to natural persons, a step that we consider important. Today, following that logical process, we call for the next step, which would be to extend that exemption to small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as to non-governmental organizations. We believe that it is the legal persons most hit by the crisis, the most disadvantaged, who have the most difficulties at present, together with those who are not for profit and who work for the public interests, whom we must rescue from this unjust respite. The logic is simple: Inditex and any local store cannot pay the same for access to justice, they cannot have the same Iberdrola treatment as an electricity workshop, Petronor as Greenpeace. Besides, we want to get another argument because we think we're paying twice, but we pay twice to the same administration. We pay the state's right services according to the regulations of the Economic concert, the rates are paid here, so we think we should stay here. By means of the Cupid we pay the Administration of Justice, by means of which we pay everygest which is made before the Administration of Justice; and consequently the Administration of the State, by the same Administration, carries it in two. We don't like this system, the concert, of course, we've said it more than once. We would rather have here a service of justice in our power, according to the principle of the law of nature. That's what we put in our corrections. I suppose we could agree with EAJ in that, not with PSOE, and so we agreed not to appear in the middle. As I'm saying, we don't agree with this system, but it's what's now. And once you're here, I'm asking you to use it well. This must be connected with another principle: Here the tax fundes justice. In order to fund that, we think it's a good income for those rates that are to be paid by big companies. Let's use them. And even if it be true that they appear to be distinct concepts, and cannot be used to pay one another, I think, if there be political will, it may easily be solved. I think all this is received in the medium we've signed, and I'd like to insist on one last point. It is true, perhaps, that it is very declamation, but we demand the public expense, which is made in justice, to accommodate one to another in Europe, which is perhaps the remedy. Of course, by the general rates established by the 10/2012 law, there will be no solution to this system of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u127	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u128	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good afternoons. This PNL, which we now bring with us the Socialists, present in October, may perhaps be a more rapid and effective road to-day. Once you lose your entire majority in Congress by the Popular Party, you can present an urgent initiative to operate on this subject. And probably in the Chamber, you can support the teams that belong to the EAJ team. Yello inquestemente de la próxima resolución del Tribunal qui nos anunciaba la señora Galastegui. Two issues are raised in this GNP, basically. First of all, I would like to reiterate this House's rejection of the Judicial Fees Act, in this case especially with regard to small and medium-sized enterprises and non-governmental organizations. Secondly, the application of tax collection. As for the first thing, the teams of the Basque and the Eunciators have clearly stated that we are against the Judizian Law. The counselor made it meridianly clear, as you usually say, as clear as clear water, since the first written answer on this subject, dated 15 May 2013, and in repeated questions from Mrs Gallastegui. And also verbally in this House, following the inquiry, also by Mrs Gallastegui, filed on 7 June 2013. The PNV, in the General Courts, with the introduction of the corresponding amendment of the bill in its entirety, and subsequently in the PNL submitted on 18 December 2013, which was discussed on 11 March 2014. And also in this House, in the second plenary of this parliamentary term, on 31 January 2013, following a GNP also from the Socialist Group, in the sense of excluding natural persons from the fees. Doing a bit of self-criticism, at that time we could also have raised the exemption of SMEs and non-governmental organizations. We have also stated, like other groups in the parliamentary arch, that we are not against the per se rate, although we believe that it should be ensured that no one is limited in their right of access to justice because they cannot cope with the payment of the court fee. And in this line goes the first point of the agreed compromise amendment. In this regard, our position is endorsed by the Constitutional Court and the European Court of Human Rights, which say that a system of fees is not per se contrary to the right of access to justice, but must take into account the specific circumstances of each case, and in particular the economic capacity of the person seeking access to the courts. Alegia, gaitasun ekonomikoa kasuan-kasuan baloratu behar from her. And they will be constitutional as long as they do not limit or impede people's access to effective judicial protection. With regard to the legislative evolution of judicial fees, following the adoption of Law 25/1986 on the Suppression of Judicial Fees, which repealed the Francoist system of judicial fees, there have been some legislative changes, but they have substantially not affected the right to effective judicial protection, until Law 10/2012 of 20 November, of judicial fees, whose precipitation was evident, since it was presented in Congress on 2 August and was dealt with as a matter of urgency, adopted in the Senate on 14 November, despite amendments by all parliamentary groups, with the exception, logically, of the People's Party. Everyone was against this bill. The whole opposition, the whole parliamentary arc, with amendments to all the parliamentary groups (seven in particular). All legal operators: lawyers, prosecutors, judges, prosecutors, court secretaries, officials, including the General Council of the Judiciary. Consumer associations, trade unions and citizen platforms. And in front of the frontal social rejection, they deafened their ears and passed the Fees Act in absolute solitude. Moreover, in a literal sense, because the rest of the Members of the other groups left the Chamber after their intervention and did not participate in the vote. They were unable to open any dialogue process. Mr Rajoy and his Government have not followed the recommendation of our Lehendakari, who again insists on dialogue and more dialogue for the search for agreements. Diálogo that now, curiously, they do claim. Of those muds, these muds. Then, showing the precipitation and improvisation of the law, they made two other reforms in the form of fixes: the Royal Decree Law 3/2013 and the Royal Decree Law 1/2015. This review was made, the conclusion on this first question. Our group shares what EH Bildu put forward in the amendment as a whole, which curiously also went into the argumental thread of the Socialist Group's initial proposal, although then in the operative part it did not specifically refer to the exemption of SMEs and non-governmental organizations. And we propose this with regard to large companies in line with Article 35 of Law 53/2002, in the sense that they had previously only an obligation to pay businesses whose net turnover was more than €8 million, and not SMEs or small businesses. The approach is that it is the large companies that can take over the court proceedings for the payment of these court fees. This is also what has been argued: the justice of the rich to help pay for the service of those with less economic resources. With regard to the second question, the application of what was collected by the judicial fees resulting from the above-mentioned law, we must say that the attitude of the Spanish Government during these more than three years in this matter can be described as shameful, a true takeover of hair. It has treated the autonomous communities as if we were in a feudal regime, unilaterally doing and undoing and unilaterally changing the approach at each meeting. The Spanish Government initially defended the new fee system, arguing that the collection resulting from the fees would be used to finance the free justice system. Allegia, Tasen Law onartzea justifikatzen zela doako justiziaren zerbitzua bermatzeko; bermatzeko epaiketarako baliabide ekonomiko gutxien duten personsonek aukera izango dutela. And from the initial allocation contained in the preliminary draft, it was finally moved to the link established in Article 11, and from there, three years later, nothing has been done until now. There is no such link and we do not know where the income has gone, which at the same time violates the constitutional right to effective judicial protection. At the same time, by adopting Royal Decree Law 3/2013, it broadened the subjective scope of the beneficiaries of free justice and raised the thresholds of their amount. We can share that criterion, but with this the objective fact is that the costs of the autonomous communities that had transfers in this area were increased, as is the case. I am not going to review the different criteria to justify what they were saying, the different criteria held in the different sectoral commissions. If necessary, he would do so in the second intervention. And leaving aside the commitments and the words given throughout this process, the only objective is that of the 564 million collected until November 2014 by the application of the judicial fees (last known official data), today, 4 February 2016, after more than three years of validity, not a single euro of what was collected through the judicial fees has been intended to finance the free justice service. Autonomous communities with competence, such as this, are doing so from their own resources, and the rest from the budgets of the Ministry of Justice. Mr Gallardón said, in an answer to a question from Mr Olabarria, that "up to a reasonable limit, which is going to cost the autonomous communities more than what the Government or the General Courts have raised, we will cover it and we will do it with the fees. Therefore, no autonomous community – I can assure you – to that limit of three times the deviation from the ministry will be in charge of expanding the benefits of free justice." As regards the initial approach to the Socialist Group's proposal, we note an implicit correction of the approach previously taken by Mrs Gallastegui in this House. If in the letter of questions for your written reply dated 18 April 2013, and in the question I referred to earlier on 7 June 2013, I strongly criticized the position of the Basque Government in that, in your view, it was seeking to benefit from a law that it did not support, it seems that now, with its initial approach (and with the questions also raised throughout 2014), it becomes quite incisive in the approach of the claim of the party corresponding to the financing of free justice. Now, on the other hand, you do like the distribution, and, well, apart from that implicit rectification, we would like it to be rectified expressly, because it was quite hard with the adviser on this matter. Therefore, in this second question, we are faced with a rate. And as Mr. Olabarria explained well in Congress, in the debate of October 22, 2012, a fee is to cover the cost of the service, it is not possible to link it to another service. And that is why, in the compromise amendment that we have reached, what we have done has been to urge the Basque Government and the Spanish Government, within the framework of the existing economic and financial relations between the Autonomous Community and the State, in this bilaterality, to put in place mechanisms to compensate the system of free legal aid through revenue from judicial fees and deposits. We have included not only the collection of fees, but also judicial deposits, since Organic Law 1/2009 in the explanatory statement stated that, apart from the modernization of justice, these revenues were also intended to finance the benefit of free justice. I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur and Bildu for their willingness to agree, and to request the support of the rest of the House for the agreed compromise amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u129	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Passing over to the group that hasn't been running any corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. The truth is that it cannot be said that Law 10/2012 was a successful law in any case, since it has been amended at least three times to date, and the aims it said to pursue do not seem to have been achieved, at least to provide more means for free justice. Now, one thing is that and another is the speeches that I have heard here today. Because, Mrs Gallastegui, your speech today for 2012 was perhaps worth it; for 2016 it is not worth it. Not just because I could present it today in Congress if I wanted to; it says, "Judicial fees violate rights." Hey, eight years of socialist government with Rodriguez Zapatero without suppressing and increasing them, and inventing new ones, and for individuals. So, do you or don't you violate rights? Can there be judicial fees or can there be no judicial fees? And now I come to the transactional that you have signed, and you do not say that judicial fees are removed. You say that small and medium-sized enterprises and non-governmental organizations should be removed. And I wonder: And what is a non-governmental organization? The BBV Foundation, for example? Or the one at Santander Bank? What is an NGO? What are we talking about? And SMEs are poor and big companies are rich? Or have we just had some debate and some statement about big companies with problems and we don't know rich SMEs? What is the approach of the groups in this House? Are you in favour of removing all fees? If they violate rights, they will have to be taken away from everyone. Of course, we are supporters. What I don't understand is the speech that the Basque Nationalist Party has just made to us here. We have just been told, as Mr Olabarria said in Congress, that a fee is used to pay for a service, so you cannot have it, and you here propose that it be maintained. Point 1 of its compromise amendment, that the rates be maintained, not that the rates be abolished. And point 2, let these rates come to the Basque Government. Can fees be charged? Is that a right? Is the law violated? A little coherence can be requested here, including the Basque Nationalist Party, right? I mean. Since when is a company that makes up eight million euros (which is at best bankrupt even though it makes up eight million euros) a rich company? How much does the ACB bill, or did it bill? Is there going to be a trial, are there going to be suspensions of payments in court? What is a rich company and a poor one? What does the difference between SMEs and large companies have to do with this? And when we talk about associations, do we talk about associations and foundations or do we talk about NGOs? But what lawsuits does an NGO have to have in Spain? Against who, why? Mrs Gallastegui tells me: "The resources of traffic fines. What a barbarity!". This speech four years ago, the same, but today... You know that individuals are exempt from the fees. Yes, he does. Why are you taking the resources out of the fines? It is one of the arguments to defend your proposal. He says to me, "Many of them are autonomous, as they are not..." Self-employed people are natural people! At least for now. For the time being, they are natural persons; therefore, they are exempt from the fees. What I put to the groups in this House is: do we have to charge court fees – I don't care, the rich very rich, and then tell me who they are – or can't be charged because they violate rights. Because the amendment that Bildu, PSOE and the Basque Nationalist Party have signed does not say that Law 10/2012 is repealed; it says that it is amended and that exemptions, such as natural persons, small and medium-sized enterprises and NGOs are also declared. That is, there are still rates. So, let's see if we stop here from talking about rights violations, when the three groups that have signed this say that the rates are maintained. And point 2. Within the framework of the economic and financial relations between our Autonomous Community and the State, mechanisms are called for to compensate for the system of free legal aid through revenue from fees... and judicial deposits. And this does seem like a joke to me. But what do judicial deposits have to do with them, which are, as their name indicates, judicial, in the courts, in guarantee of whatever is in each trial? And that has to be transferred to the Basque Government? The courthouses? So they're no longer judicial, they're administrative. What does judicial deposits have to do with supposed fee revenues? Nothing. So, what are you guys up to here? Point 3: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government and other public institutions to approach the European budgetary average for the financing of justice". At least here the Socialist Party's proposal has improved, because it said that it was the Spanish Government and it seemed that we had forgotten that the autonomous communities have competence in this matter. And the fourth point. I don't know, Counselor... "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to guarantee the right to the effective protection of Basque citizenship within its competence". He doesn't seem to do it enough and we have to urge him to do it. We have no problem in urging you. We thought he was doing moderately well, but we have no problem in urging you to guarantee the right to effective guardianship from your department. If the PNV believes it is necessary to urge you to fulfill your obligations, we will not be more papists than the pope, and therefore we will agree to do so. You will know why you need to make this request to the Basque Government. And I would like, if some really stop demagogying, to tell us whether or not they are in favor of fees. I mean, do the rates violate rights? Yes or no? Because if they break, we take them all away. I'm a supporter, but you guys don't think so. You guys don't think so. In any case, as I have already told you since minute one, it is a law for which the softest rating is that of failure. Because if in three years' journey it has had three modifications, and it was supposed to be used to finance better and provide more resources for free justice, it is clear that it has not succeeded.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u131	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Gallaustegui, representative of the Basque Socialists, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u132	Well, in part. Firstly, to clarify from our point of view an issue that seems to have raised doubts in all parliamentary groups, and I am referring to the question of the connection of the tax with the public service that is to be covered. I don't think there's any problem in this case. Among other things, because we need to make a more lax reading of the rule and understand that the public service of justice, the justice system, includes the free legal aid service within its services. That's for starters. I think, therefore, we would have no problem with this. But, in any case, I believe that the wording in the second paragraph of the compromise amendment leaves the possibility of any matter of an appeal before any court closed. I was told by Mr Zorrilla that there has been a change in the view of the Socialist Group, and in particular of this Parliament, of the approach taken in that question to the Councillor in relation to the rates and position we now have, in which we call for the money that has been collected from them to come to the Autonomous Communities, as stated in the law in Article 11, to cover the benefits of free justice. Well, the situation is radically different. If all of us here look back, we will see that at that time the law had just been enacted, and what we were asking of the Basque Government was a clear position, because the Deputy Justice Councillor, once the fees were passed, said: "Justice...". The counselor said, "We're against it." She said: "Justice is expensive and you have to pay it. We are against court fees, but we want a piece of the cake's distribution." And that's not exactly what we're doing right now. Once the Basque Government did not do what Parliament wanted it to do, which was to bring an appeal and stand clearly against the application of judicial fees, it immediately came to say: "Not only am I not going to appeal, I am not going to act, I am not going to activate the means of self-government that I have in order to be able to defend the rights of my citizens", which is now reflected in paragraph 4 of the compromise amendment, "but I also want the piece that can correspond to me". Not one or the other. Mr. Damborenea says to see what happens to the fees. Here one thing that is meridianly clear is that this law that we are talking about today, Law 10/2012, of November 20, is the one that after 26 years... I am not talking about the Zapatero government, therefore, nor about any socialist government. I will remind you that the rates were abolished in a government of Felipe González in 1986. All of them. The only law that generally restores judicial fees is this law that you did with the positioning against everything that moves in the world, because no one – Mr.Damborenea, laughs, no one, made the slightest agreement with you. And you have set rates to which you have allocated such an extremely high amount that, in addition to merely having a character of making money, collecting money, it has a deterrent effect, which it does is to collide frontally, as the proposition in its explanatory part says, with constitutional protection rights. That is, this law violates rights, Mr Damborenea, it violates rights. And that's why you've had to do that which seems so fun to you, that it's going to be amending this law within three years successively, because you've had everyone in front of you. And recognizing the error is wise. And, then, what is appropriate is to recognise it, and also to approve with the rest of the political forces of this Parliament this compromise amendment, which is genuine, Mr Damborenea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Myst. Mr. Maneiro must not speak. From EH Collect, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u134	Thank you. He had no intention of going out, but yes, perhaps, to read a part of the intervention in which, already in that debate that was held in 2013, in January, Mr Damborenea said: "It does not cease to be peculiar to say that all natural persons must stay out", it is assumed that from the charge of the fees, "including the largest shareholder of the BBV, as at the time Mr Ruiz-Gallardón said in the Congress of Deputies, and at best the baker who has a company in the bakery that is with which he carries it, that he does have to pay the fees". "And where is its proportionality?", you were wondering. Good. Is that the question? Proportionality? Because it gives me the impression that what you're doing is delaying or, in a way, withdrawing from the line of defense. He first said that these rates had to be applied to individuals. Then they realize that it is not fair; then, a reform is introduced. He is now advocating that it be maintained for SMEs and NGOs, as he is not going to support with his vote the transaction that we are bringing today. And what I'm wondering is if tomorrow, once this happens – because it also seems that the Constitutional Court will also be speaking on this issue – when SMEs and NGOs are withdrawn from paying the fee, you will then argue that the fee for large companies should be maintained. And I think here's the thing. And I think that's why you advance that no, and that's why I think you say that this law really was a failed law, that it was a law that doesn't make sense, and you acknowledge that it never had to be sanctioned. I believe that it is a logical progression that we are proposing today: first, natural persons; then, SMEs and NGOs, and then let us enter into the debate on proportionality, because then we will say that we do consider that these rates must be maintained by large companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u135	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians from the group, Mr. Zorrill, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u136	Thank you. Mr Damborenea, I believe that this Member has been quite clear on some of the issues he has raised. First, yes or no fees. I believe that I have said that our group is not against the per se rate, provided that it does not limit the ability to access the law of effective judicial guardianship. Clearer, the water. For who? We said so too. For who? As stated in article 35 of Law 53/2002, for those who have an obligation, companies whose net turnover was more than €8 million, always – do not demagogically accuse of demagogically – that this rate does not limit access to the effective judicial guardianship of these legal persons. And for whom? Of course, if a fee is charged, in this case, as we are not against per se and yes fees for large companies, the court fee has to be for the one who provides the service. Who renders the service? The discussion can be whether the service is done by judges and court secretaries. As we have staff, and, except judges and secretaries, the administration of justice is ours (even the chair of the judge and the secretary, and the leaflets), that court fee, if the service is provided by the State or by the Autonomous Community... Where is most of the cost of this justice service given? If it's ours, we claim that rate. That is why we say that mechanisms must be put in place to allow, where appropriate, the entry of this rate for the provision of the service in the administration that assumes the highest cost of that service. He was talking about the judicial deposits, which seemed to him a barbarity. I do not know if we have read the explanatory statement of Organic Law 1/2009 of 3 November, which says: "The revenues that can be generated by the misuse of the right to resources", for this are the judicial deposits in this implementation, "are directly linked to the process of modernization of justice, the creation and maintenance of platforms and to finance the benefit of free justice". The thing is, he wasn't doing it either. That is why we have agreed to include judicial fees, and judicial deposits, if they are not returned – logically, if they are returned, they are not going to be able to refer to the autonomous communities–; they want to be linked to or compensated for free justice. You were talking about coherence. I would say to you that you must be given courage, Mr Damborenea, to speak of coherence. And I also understand that you have a real piece of paper, because the writing is read, and Mr Arzuaga has read you a part of the plenary on 31 January 2013, which I too had underlined. But you also said other things. To the thread of what Mr. Gallardón said at the time, which I read, Damborenea said on January 31: "The reform proposed by Mr. Mariano Rajoy's government is to finance free justice. The free justice that the autonomous communities pay, and obviously the autonomous community that wants to receive these revenues voluntarily, will be able to do so. Point," he said. And in another paragraph it says: "The People's Party government has said that that is to finance the free justice paid by the autonomous communities. Therefore, if the autonomous communities want, because they cannot be forced to collect the money to finance free justice and to pay lawyers at once, when appropriate, they can do so. This is the central government's collection effort: zero euros." That's what 31 said. And let me tell you, Mr Damborenea, that I am fully convinced that when you said this, I thought about it, I thought about it at that time. But time is an inexorable factor that gives and removes reasons, and you have taken it conclusively. Because it is not that the Central Administration has zero euros, but, according to the latest official data, it is 564 million the Central Administration, the Autonomous Communities Zero. I don't know if it's coherence or not coherence. As I said, I will not refer to the changes in criteria – because there is no time for this and I think you can know it, we have already mentioned it – since that initial allocation of the preliminary draft, taking stock of the sectoral and meeting committees. I would simply go to the end, which is a question from a Catalan parliamentarian, Mr Jané Guasch, dated 22 April 2015, in which the Minister says without any redundancy, despite all that we have read, that the amounts collected with the judicial fees (564 million euros) have nothing to do with the financing of free justice, which are completely different issues. It must be valued, as I said before, it must be valued and coherent. Finally, with regard to what the Socialist Group has said – it says that they wanted a clear position of the Basque Government – I believe that the position of the Basque Government was very clear from the very beginning, as I have said before. And, in this sense – using the last seconds of the intervention – the scenario is currently another in the institutions in the central administration, and what we urge is that, if that will of the Basque Socialist Party has influence and is reflected in the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, along with the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups, which seem to be in that line, work on amending the law and financing the free justice, which was the objective. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u137	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Finally, the Euskal Potula Group representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u138	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Gallastegui: "This is the only law, that of 2012, that instituted the judicial fees." It's not true and you know it. If you don't have to say what's not true! Since 2002, there have been court fees, and you have increased them with the monitoring process to be paid by natural persons. And they did something else that is perhaps worse: they imposed the tipping of costs on the contentious-administrative against the citizens who resorted to the contentious. If they lost, they had to pay the costs of the Administration, which until then did not exist. And that's what you did. I don't know if some have understood me or not. I do not say that it is a question of proportionality to pay the fees. No, no, And I, when I set that example, I put it to him because... Who's richer? And this goes for you too, of course: the one who makes eight million... It is not a criterion, first of all, of proportionality; first, it is of law. Is a fee a violation of the right of access or not? Yes or no, that's the first question, and then we'll see how it goes. That's the first question. Because in the first intervention of all of you, all rights were violated. Is it a duty-default rate? You say, "No, I want to put fees." And you say, "No, I want to put fees." And I, who was willing to vote on the first point of the Socialist Party's proposal to repeal this law, find that the three groups do not want to repeal it. Why? Because they want fees to remain, and they still call for the fourth amendment of the 2012 law. If it's still going to be a law, this one, with a lot of travel! It already has three amendments and now you are asking for the fourth, because you no longer ask for the repeal of this law. They're asking for the fourth. And you tell me I'm contradictory. I said why it seemed good to me, and then I'll talk, if it has to be, how it has to be the ratio, which I think. I said it looked good on me. I understand, as you yourself have said, that it is stated in Europe that charging fees does not violate access. It is declared and is said to be so, and in almost all countries it exists. Almost all countries exist, but rights are violated here. Apparently, if the People's Party makes a law. If others do it, no, they don't break it, it's fantastic. It's fantastic the law, but to pay. And more than I expected. Why did I tell you that? It seemed to me that law, the purpose of that income: to better finance free justice. I told you in my first speech: you failed in that. Or not? As you have also failed in that, I was willing to vote for the repeal of this law, but you do not leave me, because you all want the law to be maintained and a fourth amendment made. It's just that there's a lot of Pharisee here, there's a lot of character coming here to say, "Ah, rights are violated!", but then everyone wants to make a box. At the cost of what? Well, in the end, of the citizens. Because the turnover of eight million euros, which I assume is what you, with this, by your speech, intend to put back, does it burden the richest or the no-richest? From Bildu we are told: "We are willing to continue paying fees for large companies". Make money or lose money? Are they richer or poorer? You should know that there are very rich self-employed, and you should know that there are very rich SMEs and that they make a lot of money, much more than large companies that may be very bad. What's going on? If you're tall, do you have to pay more than if you're low? What the size will have to look like! We'll have to talk about the benefit. What will the billing have to do with the benefit! What does billing have to do with income, who wins the most! And you also fix it and give it to billing, and not to profit. And if you want proportionality, obviously you will have to see the benefit, not the billing or not the income. No, the benefit. And is that only for companies or is it also for natural persons? That is what I was saying to you in the previous debate; to you, all of you. Is it for business and for legal persons only? Doesn't it work for natural persons as well? I will, in any case, tell you that we will vote in favour of this compromise amendment that you have made. I have already told you that if the Councillor wants us to urge him to guarantee the right – which he apparently does not – to effective guardianship, we will. And that the Basque Government increases its budget, we will. And that the mechanisms for the fees to come there are articulated, we will. Now, thanks to the transaction, we have been left without the possibility of voting for the repeal of that law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u139	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the mediumal corrections signed by Basque Socialists, EH Collectors and Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u140	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposal like the popular teams of the Basque Acts, about the "online plate trial" in colleges. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr Oyhargal, the ex-American Basque Group, has the word to present and defend.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen. The process of enrollment of public and concerted schools in both primary and compulsory secondary education in our Community has established a common timetable for the submission of applications for the admission of pupils. Such requests can also be supplemented online, through a computer application provided by the Department of Education, to which the required documents must be attached. In this regard, the applicants authorize the Directorate of School Centres to verify in other public bodies, in other administrations, the veracity of the documents submitted. However, citizens have the right not to submit to the Administration any documentation which is already in their possession or which is not necessary for the procedure in question. This – the regulation is extensive – is already covered in articles of different laws. I do not want to list them, but, in any case, we do want to stress here that societies are moving forward, changes are taking place more and more quickly. That is why we believe that administrations must adapt to these new realities, to the new needs of the citizenry. A citizen who, on the other hand, understands that he is fully prepared for it, and is also aware of his rights, his abilities, and is also accustomed to loosely handling himself through new technologies. And to deal with these new realities is precisely why the Government of Spain promoted last October 2015 the Law on Common Administrative Procedure of Public Administrations, a law that, among other things, seeks to advance and improve relations between administrations and citizens, adapting to the new realities of our time and avoiding duplication and inefficiencies, in order to be able to offer a more effective service to the whole of the citizenry. There have been many, as I told you, laws that have dealt with this. Act No. 30/1992; Act No. 58/2003, Tax General; Act No. 11/2007, on Electronic Access, which already issued a letter of a legal nature in establishing the right of citizens to engage electronically with public administrations, as well as their obligation to have the necessary means and systems to enable this right to be exercised. In our view, the Basque Administration can and should put the batteries into effect. Electronic processing cannot be an exceptional, special form of management in procedures, but must be a regular action by administrations. Because an administration that is committed to electronic operation not only serves the principles of efficiency and efficiency better, it saves costs for citizens and businesses, but also strengthens the guarantees of stakeholders. The record of documents and proceedings in an electronic archive facilitates, in our view, the fulfilment of transparency obligations, and enables timely, agile information to be provided, and updates this information from stakeholders themselves. And our legislation is no exception. Decree 21/2012, on Electronic Administration, as well as the collaboration agreement between the Basque Government and the deputies, already made it clear that we have to ensure that this works in a definitive way. The main purpose of these agreements and of this decree was to facilitate the exercise of this right, the right not to provide the data and documents already held by the administrations. We have to facilitate all that procedure, all those processes we have to facilitate to families. It is therefore clear from all this legislation, also from the steps taken in our Community, that both citizens and businesses have that right, which, especially when it comes to documentation which is not necessary for the procedure in question, does not need to be required to submit it, because for a long time there are, as I said, sufficient regulations in this respect. However, I believe – that is why we have brought this initiative here today – that many administrations, companies, institutions in the public sector do not know the existence of this basic right, and there are many examples that we could put in situations that are disturbing, that exasperate citizens in their relationship with the administrations. We have brought an example here today, which refers to the process of enrollment in educational institutions of the CAV. We could have put in other examples, but when you are going to apply for admission, it can be done by two channels. One is the face-to-face: you have to go the mother or father of the student or student to the center that they choose as the first option, they have to present all the documentation on site. Or they can do it on the Internet, as I told them before. In both cases a series of documents must be delivered. We already saved the one from the rent, but we have to present photocopies of the family book corresponding to the student, photocopies of the family book of the father, the mother, the DNI of both, certification of the registration issued by the corresponding council, document accrediting the compliance of the protocol established by the Department of Education in the case of separated or divorced families, certificates of disability where appropriate, certificates of disability of the father, the mother, members of the family unit, photocopies of the large family book, documents accrediting if there is any brother already in the center - of course, many of these data already know them the Administration -, document supporting the score awarded by the OMR or the school council of the center... Finally, a series of data and documents, many of which are already in the hands of the Administration. If the annual income of the family unit is not given, as it is sufficient to authorize the Basque Government, the Administration, the verification by the department in the corresponding farm foral, it cannot be understood that the department itself requests a document certifying that some brother is in the center – that information has it by the department, must have it by the department – or something as simple as the certificate of registration, photocopy of the DNI, etc., to prove paternity. All this kind of information that is already in the hands of the administrations. Or how can it be understood that families have to provide several photocopies of the family book, etc., when there is already a civil registry that precisely aims to facilitate, speed up bureaucratic procedures, eliminate unnecessary procedures and set up a registry that should already be electronic, modern, fast, accessible and unique? That is why, and I am not extending myself any further, we are presenting this initiative here today, which seeks to improve management in the procedures of the Administration, which we believe can advance efficiency and efficiency, saving costs, efforts (especially, efforts to citizens, companies), and facilitating the exercise of that right that I have been demonstrating since the beginning of my intervention, that right not to provide the data and documents that are held by the public administrations when they carry out these administrative procedures. I would like to thank all the groups for their willingness from the outset to support that initiative, to reach agreement on that compromise amendment, which we signed by the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group. And, of course, I hope that the appropriate measures will be taken as quickly as possible, to avoid again these procedures to the families next year, when the time comes for us, which is the time of pre-maturity in Children, Primary and Secondary in the public and concerted centers of the CAV. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u142	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mr. Aguirre, the representative of the EH Collect Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u143	Thank you, ma'am. We're in the preatomy time, as Mr. Oyhal said. Tomorrow it ends by giving the name; it presents itself to-morrow or to-night, with the day and the Internet, or with presence. It's a very important moment for family and parents from our point of view. During this preatation time, the Board of Education has focused his message on the family registration. "Tenare el frau del Parrón," said the chief physician, when he told him about the premium-pain. The families that will cheat in their addresses will be punished. The popular Party has put its focus on not asking for the data of the local administrations. The Basque Country has, on the other hand, put its focus in the language and in the immigrants in this premium campaign. For, having licenses from being merely a tramites, it ought to pass into an action of political arguments, that is, an important step in the direction of the Basque People. This year even the Board of Education, from our point of view, has lost this opportunity by offering again the exhausted patterns. As for the newcomers, we shall have time to study the matter calmly, for our party has asked for the appearance of the chief physician. As for the project presented by the populiar party, we agreed with the original proposition, and agreed to the intermediate method. Because we agree with families that the administration has to make things easier. We agree that in what schools to name, the nervousness of deciding must be suppressed as much as possible. So we'll vote for it. The Basque Country, in spite of agreeing, hasn't signed. He hasn't signed because the Party hasn't left him, Mr. Oyalun, because you haven't let us sign with us. Uncomprehensible, unacceptable. Especially today when Mrs. President has read two institutions and your signature is next to ours. This afternoon the president has read two institutional statements, and her signature is in place. Look, the first institutional statement, that of the Bizkaia Compact Steel: we are together here, EH Bildu and the People's Party. Signed. The President's second institutional statement: a little bit more apart, but also. So, I don't know what the procedure is, and I don't know what the People's Party's criterion is for us not to be allowed to sign on an issue we agreed on. Because that's how it was, you know it. A little higher than your eyes, Mr. Oyarzabal. We are not going to fall into your intolerance, we are not going to fall into your paranoia, because the important thing is the families and the boys and girls for Euskal Herria Bildu. Vamos al grando. What are we going to accept today? On the one hand, the right of not introducing the data and documents in public administration to people who like it, and making covenants with different public administrations. Of the documents to which families are to be introduced, what are they in the hands of different administrations? Above all, we have focused three or four administrations: Civil records, you said it yourself. There's a family book there, and that's what you're asking for. the page, the father, the mother, or the lawyer, the state of a separate family, or a divorce. It's all in civil records. Two, the councils. Tag ID of the family address. And of the place where music or dance lessons are made, that is to say, music schools are examples of this, and, as music schools depend on the council, the municipal authorities have this information too. Third, foreignors. A document that needs to show the family yearly rent, but what it's paid for by the forum, when both parents and families allow their authorization. And, as we said here, the school itself. It's data that's in the school where there's a student's brother-in-law at a college where there's a student's school and a student's father, or the mother, or the lawyer's parents, who works at the college where he's asked to be, or is a member of the school's office. They're all in the same school. So these administrations have in their several departments the information of their families, or their data. These are the documents required, some necessary to calm down. The Board of Education, therefore, must agree with the civil registers, one with the councils, two, three with the foru-burners (this is a direct road, so we may say that it works well), and, in fact, it must be agreed with four schools in itself, but it has no meaning, because the schools belong to the Board of Education. So this is the challenge: for here we are speaking a great deal of councils, two; and how to connect them with the schools, so that their families may not present their documents. So we think it's an interesting initiative, as we said at the beginning. We'll join and we'll vote for him. But I think this presupposes a challenge to be made, and that these three challenges belong to the department, especially to the civil records and municipal records, and to the agreement. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u144	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u145	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party was timely. It's better the transaction we've come to. We have incorporated some elements and I think we should congratulate ourselves, because we are talking about improving the lives of families at a time when they are in full enrolment and, as has already been said here, they have to gather documentation from various public administrations, including companies in some cases, etc. We started online registration at some time and had to deal with some problems, even with some of our out-of-pocket estates, in relation to relying on income statements. In this it seems that progress has been made here, but with other institutions no progress has been made. It is therefore very important for the Education Administration to enter into agreements with those administrations with which we do not yet have any contributions, right at the moment, to facilitate the lives of citizens. And they need to do that, that is, move from role to practice. It's very important. The other element that has been incorporated is also very important, which is that of the documentation provided by the administrations, in fact, those administrations know that what they are signing corresponds to reality. And this is also very important. Therefore, the proposal put forward by the Group of the European People's Party has been timely, and the compromise amendment we have reached is more timely. So let's congratulate everyone, and see if we can get everyone's name on the same paper. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Eubertarians represent the team. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u147	Thank you, Chief. And good evening to all. To talk about this subject, we find it inevitable to consider three elements. On the one hand, the predictions received in the people's rights, the chances of the new technology, and the services which are paid to the people and the respect due to them. Although the original initiative was limited to the education camp and the degree of license, we believe that beyond education, all the administration's employment camps should be adapted. As has been said here, the Laws of the Juridical Rule of Public Administration, and of the Member of Administration in his time, 1992. in the year he saw that the citizens of the country would not have to present themselves to him, unless they were already in his power, under the rules which may be applied to the procedure of the case. Then steps were taken, and the law of the year, about the use of public services by electronic means, says that the citizens would not need to present the documents and data of the public administration, as well as of other administrations. In order to allow this purpose, it is essential that public administrations of different degrees and districts should act together in order to exchange data and information, and to agree with the means and protocols. And 'Esunk' went on working for what had been planned in the law long ago, making steps to guarantee that right of the Basque People. Thus, with the rest of the national administration of Eucharin, he has proceeded to cultivate the roads of organization, and there is the origin of the system of Interoperability of the administrative administrations of Euskata. This service or system enables public administration procedures to transmit to the people the data and certificates required for corporations and institutions. Thus the citizens will not need to lay down their certificate on paper, and at the same time all the guarantees of the law of the Administration and the protection of the data are secured. I'm sure you're in a position to maintain that right with other administrations. At this moment, several Interoperability services are available with some of the administrative administrations of Euskal Autonomy, as well as the general State Administration. To this end, the Basque Government has signed several agreements which bring administrations closer together and enable the mutual provision of administrative information and e-management services between agencies. To date, there are several agreements with some municipalities, large and medium, which have computer resources, such as Vitoria-Gasteiz, Donostia, Bilbo, Barakaldo, Ermua, Txorierriko Mankomunitatea, Beasain, Bermeo, Getxo, Basauri or Andoain. Also, since last November, there has been an agreement with the outlaws, an agreement that was already announced in November by Councillor Josu Erkoreka before this very plenary session. This is a partnership agreement between the Euskadi Autonomous Community's public administration and the outlaws of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and between them, for the exchange of information by electronic means. And already the signing of this agreement implies a qualitative extension of those who had already been functioning and displaying effects until now. Since the interaction system has been started, though the system has not been fully developed, more than four million facts have been exchanged between the public Basque administrations. And in addition to the information that can be exchanged in the field of the enrolment of boys and girls in which we are immersed, the administrations consult and transfer information to each other in areas as diverse as the fact that they are aware of the payment of tax obligations, consultations of economic activity tax headings, consultations of tax domicile, consultations of payroll payer data, and so on. To the extent that public administrations continue to sign agreements and implement the mechanisms envisaged, these figures will multiply exponentially, facilitating the effectiveness of the right of citizens not to provide data and documents already held by public administrations. And, no doubt, that will also benefit those who go to the Education Administration to formalize the pre-matriculation of their sons and daughters. As I said, we understood that the initiative should not focus exclusively on the registration procedure. That is why our amendment referred to the administration as a whole, the procedures as a whole. We believe that the initiative was reasonable – it was based on a legal forecast – that all the amendments that had been tabled shared that same philosophy. We therefore believe that this is a compromise amendment which will benefit both the citizens and the administrations themselves, who will be able to operate with greater agility and efficiency. We are therefore glad that in principle all groups will vote in favour of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u148	Thank you, Mrs. News. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mist must not speak. It's the answer time. Anybody want to be involved? Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u149	Thank you very much, President. I didn't mean to intervene. I apologize, because we had commented that it was going to be very brief. But, by allusions, I want to say to you, first of all, that this is not our axis of discussion in the field of education. I have brought the matter up because it is a complaint from a great many parents in our Community. Of course, we have a number of defence priorities in the field of education. For us, the main thing – for you are others – is the defense of freedom, the freedom of choice of model and center for all families. Of course we must fight against the fraud of the standard. We want to defend the freedom of choice of model and center, and also to defend a trilingual education, and to defend an education without manipulation. But today we bring this topic. Did you worry not to sign with the PP? Your concern now is that you didn't sign with the PP? Are you obsessed with signing with the PP? What's the criterion? I'll explain. We have not stopped defending at any time any issue on which we believe simply because it bothers us with a signature. That is why today we wanted to sign those institutional declarations, because for them to be institutional declarations they had to have everyone's signature. And of course in defending those issues, as in many others, we are, and your signature, of course, will not take us off the board. We have to be and we will continue to be defending those things we believe in. But, if you so much want to sign with the PP, if that is now your obsession, please do one thing: spend your time convincing those in your coalition to condemn ETA. No, no, to condemn ETA, to acknowledge the damage they caused to this society. For dignity. But not with me or with my group: for dignity with so many people who suffered. Not only with the victims, not only with the murdered ones – today we remember a murdered member of this House – but not only with them, but with so many people who suffered the harassment of those who are leading their coalition today. Please devote your time to making that democratic journey that you have not made, to recognizing the damage caused and its complicity (you have already done so in the National Court). And then we won't have a problem sharing the signature on a paper. But you have a lot to do, and, if you are so eager, a lot of work to do in your own group. Because when I look back – I've been in this House a long time – do you know what I remember? That when I started in politics, in the 1990s, I was president of the New Generations of the PP, I chaired the youth organization of my party. Do you know who presided and was the leader of Jarrai in Álava, in my city, in Vitoria? Hasier Arraiz, today leads Sortu. Do you know where we were? I was wearing a blue bow here, and Mr. Arraiz was a few feet away, 15 meters ahead... I remember it perfectly, because I certainly talked to him, I never refused to talk to him or any of you. He also shared discussions with him at the Youth Council. You know what I remember? That at 10 meters, in the Plaza de Correos of this city, of Vitoria, Mr. Arraiz was the one who gave instructions to those who threw stones at us, to those who insulted us, to those who threw eggs at our face...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u150	Please! What's the beginning of the subject? Oyal, please. What's the beginning of the subject?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u151	Madam President, I'm done. These are serious things for you to come and say that you feel like signing with the PP. They've got a lot to do. Yeah, yeah. Don't raise your hand, because you're also a good-looking parliamentarian. I'm talking to you about what was going on in our city. That my political imagination started to see how whoever runs his coalition from that bench today was on the banner 10 meters in front of me, in the Plaza de Correos, Monday after Monday, in this city, giving instructions out loud. He was heard from our banner how he gave instructions to those who threw stones at us, to those who insulted us, to those who threw eggs at us, to those who threw paint at us. That's what I was doing! Many times I've talked to him after all that, but we don't forget. And you, please, know that, out of dignity, in this people there are many people who do not forget. And we are here to represent the people who, with great dignity, have stood before you for many years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u152	Thank you. Would you please shut up? Now, EH Collect has a tourist to say what he wants to say. Did you hear that? No, no, I'm talking to you, you don't have a word. Every Turk here has it. And she asked him why he didn't sign with her. He answered it. Now he's his turbot and he'll say what he wants to say. He'll say what he wants. Let's respect the Turks. From EH Collect... Quiet! You too, Carmelo Barrio. Shut up, please. It's not your tour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u153	Thank you. Alone, due to the interference of the Oyhargian protests, because it had nothing to do with today's subject. It was a subject of online license, and it wasn't connected to the subject at all. So I'd like you to explain my protests.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u154	Basque Socialists. Mrs. Celaá must not speak. Eubertarians... Not even. Mists... No. We're going to vote for the middle-term correction that Eukobertists, Basque Socialists and the popular Basques have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 71; supporters, 71; counters, 0; white, 0; abstain, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-04.u155	It was unanimously accepted. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-seven.
