ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I may inform you that the fifteen and sixteen points in the subject list will be discussed at one time. First point in theme list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of the Kermanbe Eribe Péritifs of the Society for the head of the Medical Department, the investigation of the Medical Department, and the reversal strategy for 2020." Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Chief, we found out a few days ago that with President Urkullu, in the Miramon Technology Park of Donostea, you introduced the Medical Research and The Reference strategy 2020. Even so, last Monday at the Medical Committee, you said that this plan will help with the university to improve the health and health system of the population, the science and technology operators, and the industry industry, to work together, and to promote the socienometical development of Eukadin. According to the plan, therefore, this strategy covers both the health field and that of industry or university, and, given its multidisciplinary and cross-cutting nature, based also on inter-institutional cooperation, it seems important to us that it can present today in the plenary of the House its strategic objectives and its foreseeable impact on the socio-economic fabric in the Basque Country. So we are asking you today what the strategic purposes of this project are, and what the effect can be foreseen by a hundred socionomists of Eucharais. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u2	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. Mr. Sweet, as you have described, last Monday I presented the Board of Health Investigation and New Information 2020. The Health Research and Innovation Strategy is conceived as a future bet in Euskadi. It was officially presented on 26 February by the lehendakari Iñigo Urkullu in Donostia, in an open scientific forum within the framework of the European capital of culture. It's a bet for the welfare of the people and our health system. It is a commitment to knowledge to the progress of our country and to the social development. Over the past three decades, the different governments of Euskadi have invested in knowledge, research and development. In the specific field of biosciences, this investment, based on the BioBasque strategy, has made it possible for a sector until then virtually non-existent today to occupy a recognizable position in Euskadi. This sector represents a new economic activity, supported by new technology-based companies that join others already consolidated in a research community that competes internationally. Therefore, it is no coincidence that the bioscience-health binomial is one of the three priority areas in the smart speciation strategy RIS3 Euskadi. The Basque health system must be incorporated as an essential component of this framework, an agent with more than eight hundred R & D projects today, a hundred projects carried out with organisational innovation and an increasing number of impact scientific publications. But the health system, in addition to acting as a customer, buyer or user of new products, technologies or services, must be a partner in R & D+i activities for universities and research centres as well as for companies. The Medical Investigation and News 2020 strategy has prescribed instructions for the next year of health. It aims at improving the health results and strengthening the Eucharistic economic development by creating the value. The four main objectives of the strategy and their respective axes of action are impact, integration, people and resources. They aim to increase R & D & I activities, facilitate their integration with assistance and teaching, serve as a framework for researchers, a greater involvement of society, and also a more appropriate funding model. The strategy is a milestone in this field. It is the first developed in R & D+i from the health system itself, it represents a qualitative leap for the evolution of R & D+i and to consolidate the field of R & D+i in biosciences in Euskadi, contributing to generating wealth and employment. In addition, advances in research and innovation and their incorporation into clinical practice improve health outcomes. Today we are able to treat and care for people better than in the past, and in this ongoing effort we are committed to. I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all the people in the three sectors who have been involved in the development of the strategy. I am convinced that a structured collaboration of the health system, Basque universities, scientific-technological agents and industry will make the objective of the strategy, which is nothing other than improving the health of people and contributing to the socio-economic development of Basque society... Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u4	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which has been made by the Congressman of the Gold Carolina Presidency to the President, the lack of initiation in front of the dramatic state of denials of the Amazins." Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u5	...I've asked the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u6	Thank you. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Gold, I'll tell you frankly. We must still do a great deal of work to overcome the dramatic state in which all the institutions and societies are suffering refugees. I don't agree with this situation, and so I described it in the name of Eusk0 on Tuesday on behalf of the organization agreed on. The injustice which the refugees live, surprise, pain, and impotence. To this we have requested three engagements, and confirmed them: that is to say, to fulfil the engagements of solidarity, care, and legality. I assure you, Mrs Urrea, that our Government has not stood idly by. We set up the interdepartmental commission, the interinstitutional commission and the social commission. We started already from the first day, from May of last year, until in September, after the summer, we set up the aforementioned committees. And we did so in the area of our powers: first the government departments; secondly, we raised this issue with the Basque institutions, the Secretariat of State for Immigration and the European Commission. I will tell you more: on 8 January I addressed a letter to the President of the European Commission, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker, also requesting an interview with him on this issue, showing our readiness and determination for a quick response. We are waiting to set a date for a meeting with the vice-president of the committee, who is directly responsible for the committee on this issue. Third, we have addressed the issue with social entities: CEAR, Red Cross... , with whom we have reached agreements; also with other social organizations. We have drawn up a portfolio of services, we have also activated cooperation aid at source, and we have compiled a unified list of available housing. At this time we also share a forecast of being able to receive up to 2,000 refugees, as we did in the first place. And, in fact, CEAR and Red Cross are currently hosting 120 refugees, who are in the first six-month reception phase. We will continue to work to ensure, to people seeking refuge, their welcome in Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u9	First of all, I must say that today the pact, the agreement of shame, has been signed. The pact, the immoral, illegal and repugnant agreement. Having said that, Mr Lehendakari, when you made the statements, when you read this institutional statement, of course, one thinks that these statements, this commitment of solidarity, responsibility and legality – which we share, of course, Mr Lehendakari – will be accompanied by what is expected of a Lehendakari of an autonomous community, and it is a clear commitment, of concrete actions, to the place where you govern. And I'll tell you this, Mr. Lehendakari, for the following. First of all, there is one issue that needs to be highlighted, and that is that there has been an agreement signed by eleven autonomous communities precisely to promote in the State a reception of refugees who are decentralized, a management that passes through direct direction by the autonomous communities, starting with governments such as that of Nafarroa. The Basque Government has refused this agreement. It's never too late if the bliss is good, Mr. Urkullu. We ask you, please, to join this agreement. Because an institutional declaration based on those principles in which you spoke about Europe (a Europe which, let us remember, is responsible for the greatest exodus of refugees after the Second World War, for its bellicose actions, for its expoliation of natural resources – which we will leave for another time – but that European Union which has disappeared), those values to which you refer, what you are telling us is that we have to act from the places where we are, Mr Lehendakari. And, in this sense, there are actions that can be carried out from this autonomous community, and not only those that other autonomous communities together with you are also carrying out, with these commissions to which you have referred. First of all, I would like to tell you that there is a very important issue that needs to be addressed: a comprehensive strategy to raise public awareness. Because, in fact, we all know that comprehensive reception is not only made up of infrastructure, and, of course, many people may agree with infrastructure for refugees, but they may disagree, for example, with the construction of a mosque in their neighbourhood. And this requires awareness-raising, it requires a comprehensive strategy for Basque citizenship to be enriched by the values of diversity and interculturality. But I'll tell you more, Mr. Lehendakari. There is a very important issue, and it is that, in fact, the refugee crisis does not begin right now. Now it's sharpened, but it doesn't start. Many people are already in this autonomous community, and they continue to come along other routes such as the southern border, which are not being given timely protection. And organizations like CEAR have also denounced it as such. And, of course, in this respect, it must be said, Mr Lehendakari, that first-rate refugees and second-rate refugees cannot be created, and there is a very clear question, and it is that income-guarantee income, that starting point of a basic service to which they would have to be entitled, sets a minimum of three years of registration so that a person can have access to it. Mr. Lehendakari, there's a lot to do. An institutional statement that we can share in many sections is fine, but there is a great deal to do. Of course, from Euskal Herria Bildu we offer our support to work together on this issue, because we really want an immediate series of actions that, first of all, will come to an agreement with these eleven autonomous communities to put pressure on the state government and to put an immediate end to this takeover. Because let us remember that there are only three people, official, in this quota of refugees, who are in this autonomous community; there are eighteen in the Spanish State of almost 10,000 people, and before this takeover of hair we need comprehensive answers, Mr Lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Urrea, you've exhibited here a sign of a "sorry pact." I would also ask you to discriminate against what that pact of shame is, placing it in its context, who have adopted the pact, so as not to make an incorrect interpretation that we here have responsibility for that pact of shame. We've offered and maintained solidarity. You refer to refugees or migrants from the South. I have referred in my initial reply to the 120 people who have been received: there are three Eritreans, and the rest are people who come from the South, and they are welcomed according to the agreements we have signed with CEAR Euskadi and also with the Red Cross, Mrs Urrea. I am warning you that I will not participate in the temptation to use the dramatic situation in which thousands of refugees are found as a bold political weapon. You refer to the agreement of the eleven autonomous communities: we have not signed it because you yourself said that you are addressing the Government of Spain. To whom we have to address is to the European Union, to the European Union, and that is what I did by addressing the President of the European Commission, Mr Jean-Claude Juncker, on 8 January, and I am waiting for an answer. Look, the institutional statement that the Basque Government adopted this Tuesday has made our position clear, and I am glad that you share this institutional statement. Do we have a lot of work to do ahead of us? That is what I said in my first speech, and we are on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question is, the Congressmen of the Basque Society and the head physician of the National Society, the influence of Labrication." Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u13	Egun on, lehendakari. Counselors, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. In the November 2014 full monograph on the comprehensive strategy to address unemployment and poverty, the Basque Government was urged to present a study in the House within six months on real poverty resulting from job insecurity and wage insufficiency, bringing to light the now hidden situations of job poverty, so that direct measures can be taken to correct this situation. A year later, in November 2015, the Basque Government sent Parliament a document that does not list the definition of concepts or the methodology used, and does not incorporate conclusions. In fact, the Basque Government has not sent a study to Parliament; what it has sent is a report that uses as the only source the adapted module of the survey of poverty and social inequalities, as part of the social needs survey of 2014. It draws attention to the above-mentioned report which indicates that the number of persons in real poverty in households with an employed person falls from 2012 to 2014, reaching the lowest figure since 1996, while at the same time pointing to the group of persons in employment as one of the most benefited by the income guarantee system, who are being called upon to go to the social protection system precisely because of the increase in temporary recruitment and low pay. The report also states that labour instability, coupled with the delay in the age of emancipation, is having a very worrying effect on reproduction processes, with a marked deterioration between 2010 and 2014, which is seriously affecting the population pyramid and the generational relief. And, while the report sent by the Basque Government says all this, the Eustat warns that since 2007 the number of people living in households where none of the members work has doubled, that the rate of long-term unemployment has multiplied by ten, that a new form of poverty is emerging from precarious employment, with temporary and partial contracts and with unworthy wages, and that we are at risk of this labour poverty becoming a structural poverty. Mr. Counsellor, in view of all this that I am presenting to you, do you really consider that there is no need to put in place measures to combat labour poverty that favour recruitment under decent working and wage conditions?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u15	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, all the members of the legislature, good morning. The report which was introduced in November 2015 indicates the position of the Eplegu and Police Society Department, that is to say, of being perfectly transparent, of being transparent, and in order to update all the sources of data. As you know, Mrs Sarasua, the last report on social inequality and poverty was made in 2012, and it corresponds to this year 2016, within the Basque Statistical Plan, to do it again. It's March. We do not want to hide any data, there would be more missing, and less none relating to the poverty of Basque citizens. The transparency and determined will of this department and this government was already evident in 2014, because, precisely in anticipation that the situation of the poor, despite being employed, would have worsened, we carried out a study in 2014, which was then completed in 2015 and was presented, as you know and have mentioned, in November. A research that has the highest recognition at state level, and much higher than that done at European level. I can understand that you may not list some of the data you say, but really the recognition that the study we do in the government on social inequalities... is internationally recognized.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u16	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Lady Sarah, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u17	Yes, Counselor, I'm sorry you didn't answer the question I asked you. I have told you that the situation can become structural, and that it is seriously affecting the population pyramid and the generational relief, and this is not baladí. You said recently that 10 to 10 are succeeding in lowering the unemployment rate in Euskadi; however, the social perception is very different. The latest surveys reflect that unemployment and inequality are the two major concerns of Basques and Basques. The social impact of the crisis and unemployment is much greater than the figures reflect, because it is the profile of the people affected that should be of concern to the Basque Government. Because long-term unemployment and labour poverty mostly affect young people and those over the age of forty-four with children. And I cannot deny that poor working people are the profile that has grown the most as claimants of income guarantee income and social emergency aid, and that it is glimpsed that it will continue to grow. That is why, Mr President-in-Office, from the Socialist Group we say to you that it is urgent to put in place measures to combat labour poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u18	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u19	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Sarasua, it is not going to be our department and I am not going to deny the existence of labour poverty, nor the deterioration of working conditions, which concerns us and concerns us. That said, it is also not a question of our department, and the Government, being responsible for the labour poverty that exists in our citizens. We have to try to minimize it. It must not be forgotten that there is labour poverty in Euskadi, of course, because, unfortunately, employment today is not always guaranteed enough to cover basic needs. For this reason, the Basque social protection system, with income guarantee income, helps those who do not reach the end of the month even in those minimum needs. But decent working conditions begin with decent labour legislation and decent labour contracts, which are not all in our hands, much less. However, we said last November and we continue to say that the data from the inequality survey reveal that 3.2% of households with an employed person in 2014 have at some point, during the previous twelve months, acceded to the social protection system. It should be noted at this point that RGI's policy of support for the occupied population focuses not only on combating poverty, but also on facilitating incentives for employment and ensuring higher levels of well-being for this occupied population. At the same time, I have to remember that the dynamics of the production system, in particular through the increase in part-time work and wage stabilization, can encourage an increase in the groups potentially benefiting from GIR and other benefits from the social protection system, which is not good, much less. The data from the 2016 poverty survey, which will be presented at the end of this year, will help to verify whether this hypothesis is confirmed or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u20	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Posteal Society, made to the chief physician of Education, Language Policy, and Cultural, concerning the involvement of an editor of EITB during the obituary Act." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Madam Counsellor, the informational treatment that Basque public television has given at the time of Otegi's release from prison can only be explained by political criteria. It was clearly disproportionate, and with a single objective on the horizon, to reflect the figure of the leader of the left abertzale, to relaunch him as a political referent. And I want to ask you: what is the function of a public television, counselor? And what is the function of our public television? Ask yourself these questions, and be able to answer yourself honestly. Because you know as well as I do that from a time to this part in that house, in EITB, decisions are being made that do not have a pass, that do not have a professional justification. We could put a lot of examples on the table, but I'm going to put one on it, the one from the Paris bombings. How long did it take for our public television to echo the massacre in Paris? How long did it take those responsible to react and realize the magnitude of those facts? I will remind you, just in case: ETB is incorporated in the information of the Paris bombings the next morning, when all the television stations in the world took hours and hours of news, of live connections, of assessments of what happened. Then the management of EITB did not consider it opportune to be where all the televisions and all the media of the world were, but, paradoxically, were the first, the first, in the prison of Logroño for the exit of Otegi. And even more, probably considering that perhaps they had been cut short in collaboration in the stages, EITB's management authorized an editor to be the one who danced the aurresku of honor and subsequently presented the organized reception to Otegi in his hometown. That is why I would like to ask you, Counsellor, what criteria led ETB to authorize an entity's worker to star in these tributes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u22	Thank you, Miss Llanos. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u23	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. Mrs Llanos, starting with a relevant point: the ETB news editor participated in the above-mentioned event in her personal capacity, on her day off, and therefore out of her job. We are talking about a legal act, organized by a popular platform of Elgoibar, which decided to have the participation of the writer as neighbour and given her profession. As you know, the presence of journalists in public events is not, at present, the usual thing; it is customary for journalists of one or the other to participate in them. I'm sure most of you have participated in one of these several times. It doesn't have to be said that a worker has participated in these events doesn't mean that the act he's exhibiting is protected by EITB. The presence of journalists in public events is not unusual today. It is common for journalists from different media to conduct or participate in cultural, political, business, economic or social events. It goes without saying that the participation of a worker in such acts does not at all imply the support of EITB for the concrete initiative being presented. And a point. Contrary to what has been published by some media outlets and which you have collected in your question, the journalist points out that some people in her work environment knew about her participation informally, but that this information was not passed on to EITB's management. In any case, I consider that workers have the right to use their free time, outside their working hours and fields, as they see fit, provided that they respect the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u25	Counselor, you don't have a pass. He doesn't have it! Nor does the informational treatment, as I told you, that EITB has dedicated to the exit of Otegi. And that is due to a political decision, not to professional criteria. With absolute security, it would be difficult for the abertzale left to pay for an electoral propaganda act such as the one that, with public money from all Basques, has dispensed him with Basque television: hours and hours of television, live connections, reports and interviews on the two channels, in order to overlay a person who goes out of prison (let's not forget) for collaboration in terrorist gang. And this seems to you to be normal. Do you believe, Madam Counsellor, that a public television can do this, and that neither you nor anyone from the government raise their voice to say it? Does it seem normal to you, too, for what you have said, that a worker of the entity participates in a tribute and dances to her aurresku? Can you imagine what would have happened if a Spanish TV journalist had danced aurresku to Mr. Amedo? Do you really imagine how they would have put the cry in heaven, the first their political party? It's not new what we bring here today, counselor. It's been a long time since the glass of that house, EITB's purpose, was overflowed. And I also believe that you, and your Government, should show a very different attitude than to justify and defend what is unjustifiable. Because it cannot be, I repeat, that you consider it normal; that you consider the informational treatment that has been given to Otegi normal; that you consider it normal for an EITB worker, who is compromising the independence of the house, to participate in that tribute. Because the responsibility is not of the worker: the responsibility is of EITB, which gives her the authorization. They are ruining the image of EITB, damaging the image of their own professionals, which there are and very good ones, and everything to put EITB at the service of very concrete political criteria. And they are doing it with the money of all Basques, administering a budget with political and partisan criteria and without any professional and journalistic criteria. And worst of all, they have no intention of changing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u26	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Thank you. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u27	Mrs. Llanos, this government has a complete commitment to the quality information that must be offered to public communications. We have often insisted on this message, and I shall speak of it again whenever it is necessary. He has recently insisted on the commitment to the basic principle of professional and honest journalism through his recently signed contract program. You know that this Government is fully committed to the duty to ensure quality information in the public media. EITB, once again, through the contract-programme, has expressly underlined the commitment to the basic principles of an honest and professional exercise of journalism. It is the commitment of EITB and its professionals: all workers must ensure their fulfilment in the exercise of their professional work, and they do so. It is the care of all the workers to look after them in their actions, and so they do. As far as they are professionals, they know what the area is to be cared for, and they do what we have to study and appreciate. It is in relation to this commitment that we should value the work of each professional, and not in the actions he/she develops outside his/her field of work. The journalist must be required to be professional in his or her informative work, and his or her views should be kept out of his or her journalistic work. This was also understood in this case by the ETB Drafting Council itself.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Five point in theme list: "To ask you, Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members made for the president on the consequences of De Miguel Cause." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u29	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Lehendakari. The Álava Prosecutor's Office has just made public the requests for punishment for the next trial for the so-called "Michael case". De Miguel, former number two of the PNV in Álava, is the main accused for leading an alleged corruption network dedicated to the collection of illegal commissions for the award of public contracts and other criminal activities. The prosecutor understands that De Miguel, accused of this case along with other former leaders of his own political party, took advantage of his political responsibilities to advance the alleged corruption network. The Office of the Prosecutor involves twenty-six persons to whom it assigns varying degrees of responsibility in this alleged corruption network, which would have developed between 2005 and 2009. In addition to De Miguel himself, the case includes other prominent former leaders of the Basque Nationalist Party, such as Aitor Telleria and Koldo Ochandiano. The leaders of the plot allegedly took advantage of their political contacts within the Basque Nationalist Party to promote contracts with the Basque Government and some municipalities and parliaments, institutions governed by this party, by the Basque Nationalist Party, in exchange for commissions. For De Miguel more than fifty-five years of imprisonment are requested, while for Telleria or Ochandiano the request exceeds thirty years. Although the Basque Nationalist Party has tried to disassociate itself from this matter, prominent Jeltzal representatives attacked at the time the chief prosecutor of Álava, who was accused of having an insane desire to prove that there is corruption in Euskadi. Mr. Lehendakari, I ask you the following questions. Is it still keeping the lehendakari that in Euskadi there is no corruption? What do you have to say about this question, beyond saying that the penalties requested are very high, as you have recently raised in a recent interview? Do you feel concerned about this issue, this scandal? You were president of the Basque Nationalist Party between 2008 and 2012: Do you feel partly responsible?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, once again I will ask you to refer to what I have been able to say and to what I have said exactly and strictly; not to the interpretations that are made in the media, but to what I have said. In any case, Mr Maneiro, I have never maintained that there is no corruption in Euskadi. I argue that, beyond specific cases in the past or which may occur in the future, because no society is free from wrong individual conduct, in Euskadi there is no widespread corruption linked to public administrations or political parties. And I'm talking about the Basque Nationalist Party, I'm talking about Euskal Herria Bildu, I'm talking about the Basque Socialist Party and I'm talking about the Basque People's Party, parties that have ruled the different institutions of this country for almost four decades. And I speak in plural and of a global reality, and I have explained so far why: we have diverse and plural institutions, we have not experienced absolute majority, and yes much rotation; we are a small and close country; we have mechanisms of self-monitoring and control and professional; we have been pioneers in transparency and good governance measures. And I refer to the evidence in this case as well. The performance of the then deputy general of Araba and the Basque Nationalist Party, when the judge's decision was known in 2010, was diligent, immediate and compelling. At that time, six years ago, it was exemplary. It opened up a way of dealing with these cases, which has since been gradually imposed on almost all political formations, as well as on the ethical codes of the institutions. Moreover, Mr Maneiro, from the very first day the Government has been involved in the case to ensure the defence of public resources. We also defend the presumption of innocence of the accused. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u33	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. Lehendakari. You insist that, indeed, there is no widespread corruption in Euskadi, and of course that is the case. There is no widespread corruption in Euskadi. I ask you about an alleged case of concrete corruption that might or might not affect your own political party. And that's why I was asking you, since you were president of the Basque Nationalist Party between 2008 and 2012, if you feel partly responsible for the actions carried out by these people, all of them militants of the Basque Nationalist Party. This is the question you have to answer: whether you feel concerned. I asked him. You were president between 2008 and 2012: do you feel partly responsible for these actions? There's something else I want to tell you. The accused points out that if he is accused of having formed a plot to collect illegal commissions, the minimum is to indicate where the money allegedly collected is. This is the question asked by the accused: Where is the money allegedly defrauded by this plot in which prominent leaders of his own political party, Mr Lehendakari, of the Basque Nationalist Party, participated? The question that I am asking you next, therefore, is very clear: can you state or assure in parliamentary office that not one of the Euros supposedly defrauded by this plot came to the arks of the Basque Nationalist Party while you were president of the Basque Nationalist Party? Can you secure this in parliamentary office? I ask you questions, Mr. Lehendakari. What you have to do is respond clearly to all of them, and without any kind of fear and with the utmost sincerity possible. So answer all these questions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, what, afraid? What, afraid, as president of the Basque Nationalist Party that I was in that period that you mentioned, when the supposeds – as you say – that were involved in that case handed over the Basque Nationalist Party's notebook? What, afraid? Look, you have brought to this House a succession of alleged cases of corruption, you have dedicated your whole effort to denigrate and defame, with generalizations affecting all institutions and political groups, except yours, Mr Maneiro. The reality is that justice has been clarifying on a case-by-case basis, and has never given it reason. What happens is that you don't even let justice go. That's right, we haven't heard an apology yet, never. The Basque administrations, officials, public officials, we are faithful reflection of the society in which we live, and the Basque society is mostly a healthy and transparent society, honest and with values. Also the women civil servants, also the public administrations, and also the political parties I mentioned earlier. In Euskadi there are specific cases that need to be clarified. And I say clear, because they're still in the process of legal proceedings, which you don't even care about, Mr. Maneiro. But to this day there is no sentence, and there is no doubt that when there is it we will act accordingly. And on the issue of corruption he will find us vigilant and active. This is an open government, we believe and practice transparency, ethical commitment and good governance. You have mentioned many alleged instances, but in all cases which have hitherto been judged there has been no proof of fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. The sixth point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, the members of the USSPopula, Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, a member of the Popula team for the president of the Eukadian wages." Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. In Euskadi the wage gap between men and women is very worrying, intolerable. We should not resign or get used to this data. We are one of the autonomous communities with a wage difference between men and women of the highest in Spain. We are talking about an average difference of more than EUR 7,100 per year. Women in Euskadi earned 26% less than men. In the European Union, where we like to look at each other so much, the average difference is nine points lower, 16.5 %. I know that these figures have an explanation (that the Basque Country has the highest wages in Spain, the weight of the different sectors of activity, part-time work), but an explanation cannot be a justification. On 22 February, the Day for Pay Equality was celebrated, and for that reason we were aware of a report by the UGT on the pay gap between the sexes, entitled "Working equal, collecting equal". In Euskadi, lehendakari, women neither work the same nor charge the same. That is why I ask you with what criteria your Government applies the policies that place us in the leadership of the wage gap in Spain and take us away from the equal pay and average of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Ruiz, I agree with you that the existence of the wage gap between men and women is a structural problem and a complex one, affecting Euskadi and affecting the whole of Europe. Look, we share the goal of equality and we can work together on solutions; now, we need a correct diagnosis, not mixing concepts or letting ourselves be dragged away by partial and short-term visions. Because you allude today to two very different concepts. First, so-called direct wage discrimination, which refers to ensuring equal pay for equal work. And in this case, Mrs Ruiz, I am categorical: equal pay and non-discrimination is a right expressly recognized by the Constitution (art. 35), and also by the Workers' Statute (art. 28). This situation is therefore directly illegal and can be prosecuted by the courts. The second issue or concept you use is the wage gap, which the European Union says represents the difference between gross hourly earnings of male and female workers. This gap is influenced by factors that affect women more proportionally. Among other things, I could say the type of contract, or the labor sector, the work experience, the hours worked... I would invite you to make reference to what studies, which I have and work say in your reference to wage gaps within the European Union. And studies say that the wage gap in Germany, Austria, etc. is greater than the wage gap in Malta, Poland or Slovenia. It's what the studies say. I am not going to refer to what the studies say about the wage gap between autonomous communities in the Spanish State, which we could also talk about. Look, it is not hidden that the crisis has increased the general precariousness of work, and especially among women; now, acknowledge me, Mrs Ruiz, that this report says that the salary of Basque women is the highest of all the autonomous communities, together with Madrid. Please acknowledge that the unemployment rate among Basque women is 10 percentage points below the state average, and that the employment rate is 10 percentage points above the average, according to the reports to which you refer. The road, Mrs Ruiz, is long, we have specific measures under way, and, together with economic recovery, they will help to reduce the existing wage gap. That's our goal too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u41	Yes, thank you. Mr Lehendakari, I recognize all that, as I also acknowledged yesterday that we have a higher rate of women entrepreneurs than elsewhere. But you again justify yourself, my impression is that. What is a structural and complex problem? Yeah. Man, that equal work equals pay? It was just missing! But the data in the report still leaves us in a place where there is much room for improvement. A lot. Look, I read the reports, too. The last one we have from Emakunde is "Salary gap, causes and indicators". The first of the findings of this study speaks of the elimination of the wage gap as a challenge that is included in the agenda of Governments. I ask you: how is it included in our agenda, in the agenda of the Basque Government? What is done specifically? Because the data, of course, do not support good results. And the second conclusion notes a need to deepen the analysis of the causes of the gender pay gap more concrete and specific for the Basque Country. From then on we have not gone much deeper, because this study is from 2012 and we have not dedicated ourselves to getting to know this phenomenon in greater depth! That is why I want to know how the challenge of ending the pay gap is facing the Basque Government. What about it? What's structural? Good. But how are we working? What measures are we doing? How do we match the Spanish average? How do we get closer to the European average? With what objectives and with what concrete measures are we going to improve next year's data? I mean, Emakunde does analyze, gives indicators, causes, explains, but, I mean, with explanations we can't settle. Explaining is necessary to make the diagnosis and to intervene, and is somehow to justify the data, but with these explanations, knowing what our problem is and what differentiates us from other places in Europe and Spain, how do we shorten it?, how do we avoid that being the wage gap? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs Ruiz, when you appeal to the averages, to the European average and to the Spanish average, I would say to you that, speaking of the wage gap, referring to the averages, man, would also lead us to the example I have set before: if we take Germany as a reference country, however, in Germany there is a much greater wage gap than what is, for example, in the Canary Islands with regard to Euskadi. For example. Look, I don't settle or justify myself. We have to keep improving, because there is room for improvement. We assume and face the situation with structural actions in training, in work reconciliation, stimulation of the economy, improvement of working conditions... The best social policy is the economic revival that generates quality employment, and Euskadi, after a long recession, has been growing and creating jobs for eight quarters. And this is the way to narrow all the gaps. And the Government is acting specifically with the equality plan programmes: to encourage the presence of women in certain branches of vocational training, to facilitate reconciliation of working life, to raise awareness of the business world, to support businesses in equality plans. That's the job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Ask me, Gorka Maniero Labayen Mistto-UPyD members of the U.S.D. High School festival on the Basque Country." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u45	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, I continue to exercise my parliamentary opposition work, which obviously includes the formulation of specific questions to the Government. And you and everyone else have a political obligation to respond to all of them. In the first question it has not been possible. You have not answered one of the questions asked, especially the most complicated ones to answer. We will see whether, from now on, the questions that I am going to ask you or the adviser herself can be effectively answered. The truth is that the confederation of parents of the Basque public school (EHIGE) has chosen a foreign country to celebrate its annual holiday, which will take place on June 5. This confederation organizes this day, which has a strong vindication character in favor of the Basque public school, representing more than 150,000 students from eight hundred public centers, through the three federations participating in it. This festival has a grant within the budgets of the Autonomous Community amounting to 50,000 euros. I ask you, Mr Lehendakari, and I ask you, Madam Counsellor (I don't know exactly who you are going to answer), in short, what opinion it deserves you that with Basque public money parties are organized in favour of Basque public school in a foreign country.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u46	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, I answer all the questions. You have asked me before whether I continue to maintain that there is corruption in Euskadi. That's the question, Mr. Maneiro. Another thing is that you don't like the answers, or that you don't listen to the answers, or that you don't want to understand the answers. En todo caso, yendo a lo que la pregunta en turno, is the meeting of the parents of the Basque village students, who every year arrange a festival for the public school of Euscal. The Society has agreed to arrange this year's holiday in Hedaia. You know, it's just, you know, the funk thing that is, like, 50,000 bucks a year to help you organize that party every year. This year even organizedrs have made the same request, and have proposed the same ends, so I see no reason to withdraw that scholarship. This is a decision taken by the confederation of parents of the Basque public school, in which I remind you, Mr. Maneiro, according to statutes, also take part parents who reside in Iparralde. I don't appreciate whether the place is the most appropriate and whether the decision has been unanimous. As you will understand, our community will always prevail in my judgment. In any case, it is their decision, and they maintain the objective of the party: to promote public school in Basque society. The institutions have made no objection to the celebration in Hendaya of the feast of the Basque public school. I have heard you many times claim over the borders. For you have a good opportunity to put your ideas into practice in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u49	Yes, Mr Lehendakari, if you want me to ask you again any of the questions I asked you in the previous shift and we checked whether you actually wanted or could answer all of them, because you did not answer them, and especially one of them did not answer them. This Parliament has recorded the formulation of this question, and it is clear that you have not been able to answer whether money from this plot actually reached the coffers of the Basque Nationalist Party. That's the reality...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u50	Mr. Maneiro, please. Mr. Maneiro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u51	...that you haven't answered...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u52	Mr. Maneiro! Mr. Maneiro... Mr. Maniro, you ask, or you go your way, or you don't have a word. Mr. Maniro, I've warned you for the second time. Third time, you know what you got.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u53	We will sometimes insist on that question which you, in fact, did not want or could not answer. You say you intend to promote the Basque public school in Basque society. It seems good to me to promote the Basque public school in Basque society. It seems very strange to me that this is intended to be done outside our borders, because what is intended to be done, ultimately, is a nationalist event to sell the Great Euskal Herria. That's the reality. The festival of the Basque public school is an event, indeed, extraordinarily important, and it does not seem to us normal that this event is held in a foreign country. We find it absurd that the Education Advisor is taking part in an event taking place in a foreign country. We find it strange, we strongly censor it, that we dedicate our tax money to subsidizing an event that is taking place in a foreign country. If the Basque public school is to be claimed, it will have to be done here, in our territory. Therefore, Commissioner, Mr Lehendakari, I ask you to work here to solve the problems that exist here, to solve the serious problems that the Basque public school has here in the Basque Autonomous Community in Euskadi, and therefore to stop participating in events taking place in a foreign country. Let them stop subsidizing events that take place or will take place in a foreign country, because their sole purpose is to defend a nationalist idea, and we obviously cannot accept this. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u54	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, you ask me, I think, as lehendakari that I am, and I answer you as lehendakari that I am, as lehendakari. Is that clear? Good. Look, the Euroregion Assembly is being held here today in Gasteiz, a step further in the cooperation without frontiers to which I referred in the initial response, from respect and in favour of mutual interest. This collaboration, for example, includes actions in the field of education, culture and Basque. In this context, in 2015 the Basque Government organized in Bayona a day of promotion of Donostia European cultural capital. Nationalist ideology? We have supported Basque learning programs, we have developed activities of the Etxepare Institute or Euskaltzaindia, we participate in the project of campus of excellence of the University of the Basque Country in Aquitaine. Nationalist ideology, Mr. Maneiro? I remind you that there are many budget lines of the Basque Government that are intended to organize activities outside our community, as every government does. Every government, Mr. Maneiro. Of course, you don't, because you don't rule anywhere. Mr. Maneiro, nationalist event, nationalist purpose that of the feast of the Basque public school, organized by the confederation of parents of students of the Basque public school, not by the Basque Government? Mr. Maneiro, don't you see how you don't even want to hear or answer the explanations offered from the rostrum to the questions raised by you? If you are permanently, when one answers you, making gestures, you cannot answer, you cannot understand. Anyway, it's the decision of the Basque Family Fathers' Association, which is the decision of the Basque Fathers' Association, who maintains targets every year at the public school festival, so there's no reason to deny Euskion's financial aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Maider Ottagoria Tolosa EH Collectors to the President, concerning the resignation of the mayor of Letzo." The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Bad news from Letzo. Cleanupup, Mayor of Lezo, who for 37 years had been a councilman in the name of the Jestle Party, gave his resignation yesterday. The Lezo EAJ and EH have come to an agreement which is best for the people. But they haven't seen him in the Gipulia Head Assembly, and the mayor has announced his resignation, as he has personally objected, because of the pressures he's been suffering from the Gipulia Assembly. The political council teams of Lezoan EAJ and EH have agreed to collect the wreckages for the future, which have been signed by 12 of the 13 councilrs. The only councilman he didn't sign has been a Councilman at PSE, he'll know why. Cleanup up the mayor and the spokesman from The EH Collectors, Chief Keepagus, expressed the importance of the agreement and declared that the agreement had been made step by step. Each one has given it to win, to win the people. They said it was an interesting exercise, and likewise a lesson to consider. In spite of the various forms of observation and politics, they declared it to be an exercise to be done more often, and in future they wish to channel their forces in order to solve the problem of the great priority of Letzo. But instead of putting the agreed agreement into value and applauding, what did EAJ do? The mayor who had to press the pressure of not taking this agreement forward from the Giupic Head Assembly. A citizen who had come to the whole meeting yesterday, very angry at the situation, as he asked, "Aqué quart aquaí el GBo la decision la ha tomado el peblo?" It is necessary that the ability to arrive at the consent, which is absolutely necessary, is what the citizens need. We've just come to a valuable arrangement, for instance, with the city law. It is difficult, but being understood that the instrument which will be so important to penetrate into the autonomy of our councils is necessary, we have put all disagreements on the table, examined the point, and arrived at an agreement. And that's the important thing. And we're gonna have to be able to get to harmony in the future and not want to. We'll have to be able to get to the agreements between parties where we've had a very different route. If not, it will be very difficult to forward the progress of government itself and for the benefit of this people. The Basque Country needs the society and the politicians who are willing to negotiate. So, Mr. President, I want to ask you directly: What do you think of the mayor of Lezo having resigned on the pressures received from the Giupic Head Assembly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u58	Thank you, Madam Mount. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Ottamount, I try to answer the questions presented in this legislature, but you must admit that this question you make is of little or none to the responsibility of the President. With all due respect to the decision taken by the parliamental table, I find it very difficult to reconcile this question with an pleno to the Eucommene. As president, however, I have never had any contact with this matter, either directly or indirectly, of what you ask me. Even in the Council of Government this subject is never proposed. In any case, I respect the decision of the former mayor of Lezo, because it is a decision taken of his own free will and free will. That's all I can say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u61	They agreed to make a deal with Lezon for six reasons. And the former, as he spoke, said: "We have agreed to say that we want the means of collecting the remains of Letzo, a system of collections which we all agree with, in short, as we would have it, the Lezoans, far from quarrel, should be accepted once for all." It is clear that you have used the material of the waste for confession, and that you are using it, which does not answer the interests and desires of the people, but to other interests which are ever clearer. And for what you said, yes, the table agreed to ask me a question, because I asked you too, and it is not the first time that you should have to answer or answer the affairs of the Government directly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u62	Thank you, My Lady Mount. The President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. He makes decisions on the table and I keep respect for the table. But to tell you the truth, what did you see when the president or the president accepted the question with this thing? What do I have to say to you, as a president, or in the name of fun? Look, in this case, as I don't know what's going on in the Basque Country's List, or what happened at the time of our previous Town Act, I don't have to answer that. I don't know, but something happened in EH Collect. I'll tell you the same thing. From what I have read, the former mayor presented an engagement with an examination in the election plan, and it is not that he either has or has not been able to execute it, but that he has changed it by another decision. That's what I've read, and that's what I can answer you. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "Intertermination, Internal investigations of the Casanova Alonso AH Collectors to the head of economics and contestations, about the state in which the euscal industry is suffering, and about the political development of the future perspetibs." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u65	Yeah, anytime. Good morning, everyone. When we introduced this interference as an introduction, we mentioned the situation of certain companies: "ACB and Thragger Productos Tubulares." Two large euscal industrial companies that have been filed for the past few weeks. In the first case, 335 workers are touched, and in the second case, the injured are nearly 400. Unfortunately, in the course of the last few days, and in the two other companies which are in the mind, the situation has been repeated: Arceloral 355 workers of Zulines and Tubos Reundos in Amreado, without determining how many workmen are to be touched in this latter case, but no doubt there will be hundreds of them. That from here we can embrace and support the workers of all companies who are at a crisis, especially those I have mentioned, but also for workers who are fighting for their job in a more anonymous and smaller way. It is natural that an industrial company, like any other kind of enterprise, should have difficulties at a particular time, and also close to them if they are unable to overcome them. But it is a matter of great concern to see that the cases of these four companies are a sign of the grave condition of the Euscal fabric industry. with ACB, Productos Tubulus, Arcelor Zumarinaga and Tubos Reunidos, there are many companies that are in danger or have already closed: Aernnova, TRV, Condesa, Candi, Arcema, Incoesa, Cirrugados, Kondia... There are companies that are well enough to grow or to create. Instead of making a partial investigation into the state of eupscal industry, we must proceed to the study of the general panoma. And if we do this general analysis we find data that are really troubling. According to the EPA, 75,000 industrial jobs were lost in Hego Euskal Herria between 2007 and 2014. According to Eurostat, the weight of industry in the Basque Autonomous Community's gross domestic product fell sharply between 2007 and 2013, from 25.3 to 21.7%, a decrease of 3.6 points which clearly exceeds that of the countries in our environment. Neither in the State, nor in Germany, nor in France has there been a similar setback. That is why we can say that the crisis that broke out in 2008 at the global level, and that in some countries it has significantly affected the finance sector, or the construction sector, in our country has completely and directly affected the industrial sector, greatly deteriorating both the generation of added value in this area and employment. What in other areas has been a financial or construction crisis, in Euskal Herria has been essentially an industrial crisis. In 2014 and 2015 there has indeed been little progress in this area and a small recovery in the industrial output index and also in employment. Obviously, it is a situation motivated by the evolution of the global economy, which has generated a tractor effect on our industry. There has been a small change in trend that has come, as I said before, motivated by this tractor effect, but yet we can say that at this point the industrial output rate is still 20% below what it was in 2007. In other words, it has not recovered, but is below the pre-crisis situation. And in addition, this situation – which, he said, is primarily motivated by external recovery – is becoming more and more similar to those famous "green shoots" that actually also occurred and were statistically reflected in 2011. And, just as those green outbreaks faded, more and more elements appear that lead us to fear for the maintenance of this partial recovery that we are experiencing. If it was external factors that led to an improvement in the global economic situation that has driven in the last year in favour of the industrial sector (and we are talking about the situation such as the downsizing of oil, the devaluation of the euro or the relaxation of tensions around debt and the improvement of financing), there are also external factors that threaten the global economy at this time and that will obviously end up impacting our economy, as is already being seen in recent months through the cases I mentioned at the beginning. The situation in China and the BRICS as a whole, especially Brazil, is worrying; the oil situation, which produces positive effects but also has negative counter-performances; stock market tensions... The international economic situation is worrying, and uncertainty is the word that is most repeated when it comes to assessing the possible prospects for the development of this situation. Generally, the evolution of our industry will be closely connected with the circumstances of our economic environment, it is logical, it is very difficult for a small country like ours to maintain its own course in front of the economic international current. Which is more difficult, when some of the instruments which are of no other nature than our own policy are not in our power, and from outside, from Madrid or Brussels, we are introduced into an improper economic policy and an anti-democratic form. But from the proper use of our instruments, if the direction is clear and the mind is clear, we may endeavour to relieve negative impacts, and to optimize good effects. Unfortunately, we don't think it's the policy of fun that had any clear direction either in the industrial area or in the general economic area. The philosophy of this government is placed in the liberal dogma of laissez Faire, and has not done the real effort to refresh our hundred industry. As has been said before, the negative element has had an immense incestuous opportunity, and even though it has once been successful in recovering, all the evils of our hundred industrial population depend upon it. It hasn't been a real effort to renew the hundred industrials to-day and to strengthen them, and we're afraid that the international affairs which follow will be highly influenced. They have not been and have not been proposed in the manufacturing model changes of structure, and we are sure that behind the recent green buds there are serious threats. Behind the propaganda and cyclical effects, our industrial model suffers from a series of structural failures that have not been corrected. Excessive weight of mature sectors, and that we are seeing with drama in the steel sector crisis. A technological delay, because, despite the fact that the average viewer of Teleberri may think that the two great technological powers of the world are Euskal Herria and Germany, our industrial sector is concentrated in activities of medium and low technological level. 70% of the industrial sector is engaged in activities of medium-low technological value, and this is dangerous for competitiveness and is also dangerous for employment, because it has been seen in the crisis that, although employment has declined in all industrial sectors, according to its technological classification, this decline has been much greater in the medium-low and low technological value sectors, and therefore resilience to crisis situations is much greater in technologically advanced sectors. We lack diversification, and, for example, by setting just one example of this problem, the fiscal failure of Bizkaia and its dependence on a small group of companies in specific sectors, in this case energy, shows that the lack of diversification is dangerous and the concentration is dangerous. We depend on sectors and markets. Specifically, the dependence of the Spanish market produced, among other effects, with the real estate crisis, the fall of a company as powerful and emblematic as Fagor Electrodomésticos. There are serious territorial imbalances. There has not been a policy of territorial development, this factor has not been taken into account in the development of public policies, and we have skualdes, such as Ezkerraldea or Oarsoaldea or Aiaraldea, once in the industrial sphere and today in clear recession. There is a outsourcing of decision-making centres, and we have seen paradoxical cases, such as yourself sitting, counselor, recently, at the Basque steel table with the company ArcelorMittal, of Indian ownership, with the company Gerdau, of Brazilian ownership, with Celsa Atlantic, of Catalan ownership, and with Olarra, of Italian ownership. That's today's Basque steel table. BBVA, AXA, Patricio Etxeberria, Ibermática, Cementos Lemona, Sidenor, and now the question of Gamesa, which is on the table, are other examples of this relocation of decision centres. We are overly exposed to companies performing intermediate tasks, it is not very well done, and that also means increasing exposure to dependence. The participation of workers in decision-making centres is insufficient. There is a lack of a public financial sector that helps and facilitates the financing of businesses. We already see the painful trajectory that has existed with the savings boxes in the state, which has culminated in their disappearance and has dragged us to lose our savings box as well. There has also been a lack of public participation in corporate ownership and management, which may be developed in other advanced countries, such as Germany and France, without any complex. We have an industrial sector in which the mature, technologically backward, undiversified sectors are too heavy, dependent on certain sectors and markets, with territorial imbalances, with the outsourcing of decision-making centres, too specialized in intermediate products, without workers' participation, without an active public financial sector, and without public participation in enterprises. Hauek will say arriskuak, hauek will say arriskuak, and you dugu honen aurean legealdi galdu batran aurrean kokatzen station. There has been no capacity to deal with these strategic problems.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u66	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In reply, Mrs. Tapia's got a word that's a New Year's Representative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. All members of the department and members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Casanova, you have mentioned several subjects, you have made a diagnosis, and then you have somehow produced your conclusions, and you may have lost something on the way. Well, it's about 23% of the euskal industry right now,6 in the Gordin product of the Interior, and it's the main goal of the Eukong, not just to reach 25% and then we're going to direct all our policies, even though I agree that you and I are very far away from these policies, and that doesn't mean anything, but that your politics and mine are different. That's why we've arranged so many tools and then I'll mention them. But, as you say, it's in the Basque world, and in a globalized way, both good and bad things affect us, of course, but that's the way our tools are directed to help us at the time of the crisis, and to encourage and carry us on in good circumstances. For the past 20 years, we've been on that side for 30 years, but that doesn't mean, as you said, these years of crisis, these eight years, that jobs have been lost and corporations have been lost. Others also have been created, and we must continue this way. Faced with a reality that has affected us to live in this legislature, of course a long and intense crisis as it had not been known in recent years, we have put in place a series of tools that I will stop to explain. First we launched the Industrialization Plan 2014-2016, which was raised in this Parliament and debated, which faced two main aspects, and was to help the companies that were going through this crisis and, in some way, to try to collaborate further in the implementation of a diversified fabric, as you said, more technological and with greater capabilities, both in terms of the internal market and in the external market. In addition, it worked with a science, technology and innovation plan approved by public and private institutions, to strengthen our commitment to R & D+i, so that the technological product of our companies reached a higher level. As you say, some were at the beginning of the crisis in the middle-low part of the table, and to get their level of technology up. A commitment to internationalisation, especially aimed at SMEs, so that this crisis that was and is still hitting us is with more diversified markets, and not just targeted at some markets. A bet for advanced manufacturing, for industry 4.0, which is the most technological, the most digital that exists right now in all parts of the world, not only in Germany (Germany, USA, Korea, Japan, even China itself is advocating for this strategy), which allows our companies to be much more competitive. But in addition to this we have, of course, put in place specific financial tools when we were in the middle of the crisis and the bank did not respond to our companies, with a fund from which we made use until almost – you will remember – 600 million euros, available..., 600 million euros of circulation available to our companies, at the time when the bank did not respond. But besides... Perhaps you don't know it, because it meant that we don't act by taking part in our companies' capital. That's not true. We have a purely public venture capital fund, with which we take part not only in newly created, technology-based companies, entrepreneurs, but also in larger companies in which, through this capitalization, we help to attack new markets, new products, new processes. There is a venture capital fund called Basque. But we also have the venture capital fund in this case, the Ekarpen fund, a private-public fund with a private majority, dedicated to larger companies, where larger stakes are taken, and which has been the result of the work of many institutions and has achieved great results; some better than others, but of course great results. Then these kinds of acts exist. More. In the face of the crisis, knowing the circumstances that we had and that Europe places great limitations on the actions of governments in crisis, we launched the Bideratu Berria programme, which was attacking, which tried to help those companies that were in crisis, provided that there was an industrial project for that company and that there was also a commitment from the entrepreneurs themselves. You know and know that a programme of action has also been launched in particularly disadvantaged areas, the Indartu programme, which last year managed to mobilise almost 90 million euros from the 8 million public euros that were launched from the government, which managed to maintain 2,374 jobs and create another 426. A program that continues to be active throughout this year 2016, which was published in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country on 29 February. And we have also had sectoral crises in which we have had to respond directly. You will also remember the tax lease crisis, which allowed us to help and work with the naval sector and make that sector, especially thanks to its work, but also with the cooperation of the Government, a competitive sector today. And now we have the situation of steel, of course, where we are working at all levels, starting from Europe, where we have been very active and very present, following with the Spanish State, and, of course, everything in our hand to help make this crisis in the steel sector as minimal as possible. But you will recognize me, as you said, that this sector is affected by a global and global crisis, in which the Basque Government can do little, but will do everything in its power. And you were also talking about the tubular sector, Reunited Tubes, you were referring to... I want to separate it from the steel sector, because, despite its use of steel, it is currently affected by the situation of the low price of the oil barrel at the moment. They are two different situations: the barrel of oil and its price helps some industries and, of course, affects others, as in this case. That does not mean that it does not have a future and that it does not have actions that will be important over the coming months. But let me turn now to situations that we also knew last Friday. And the Industrial Situation Observatory, where all sectors, all clusters of this country are represented, did an analysis of how 2015 had been and where their prospects were headed, based on recruitments they already had and on expectations. And all sectors, all except steel (all clusters, except steel), were talking about an improvement in 2015: improvement in contracts, improvement in results and improvement in employment. Moreover, 2016 opens it with also favorable perspectives. But I'm not staying there. You also know perfectly well that yesterday the results of the automotive sector, a very important sector in Euskadi, which has grown nothing less than 9% (nine long), which has generated employment, which has had a record of recruitment and which, of course, expects good results for next year. I'm not inventing anything; it's data that the clusters themselves give. Or a sector that has suffered a lot during this crisis, the computer and communications, information and communications sector, which has grown by 7% last year and forecasts something similar for this year, which they have generated only 500 jobs and expect another 1,500 jobs over the next two years. Thus, the industry in general sees an improvement. But, I insist, I don't say, it's data that they're providing themselves. That does not mean that there are not really two sectors for which you and we are concerned, and where we will continue to work. But from a series of concrete actions, with growth forecasts that need to be worked out and helped. And I'm going to refer to a sector that didn't exist a few years ago, and the counselor said that in the first question they asked him. The health biosciences sector did not exist a few years ago, and through an important investment strategy (investment through venture capital, technological investments) today is a sector in which we really have high hopes, because it can be a tractor sector in this country, and that it was precisely last Friday that said that 100 percent of its partner companies expected a significant improvement over the next year. So I think we've got fogs, yes, but in general it's not bad, and I don't say it, the sector says so. And though things went well in 2015, we still hope we can do better in 2016. And you said yourself, but this has been the state of industrial production, Mr. Casanova, in the past few years. This has been the last few years, we've suffered a lot, we're going to the better, but this is 2015. In January, 2016, we've reached 5,9%. So the industrial production really goes up, they say, and they give the data. And not only that, I'll end up with the field. This has been the development of developments. We've suffered a lot and manufactures have disappeared and a lot of people have gone to unemployment, but that's a completely different coincidence. So we have to put each thing back in place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u69	I do not think that that last reference to the EREs was very timely, because it is a bit of a mention of the rope at the house of hanging, precisely with which it is falling on ERE perhaps less numerous, but which are actually affecting a really important number of workers, and which are placing important economic sectors in a situation of weakness. I've got two things I'm not going to tell you. I am not telling you that the crisis is your fault or your Government's fault. That, another one did say, didn't it?, that the crisis was Zapatero. I think you have to be more intellectually honest: it's neither your fault nor you are doing anything. Of course, he's doing things. It has a whole department to manage, with several hundred million euros of budget, and then it determines the elaboration of a series of programs. Indeed. What I'm telling you is that the finding is that what you're doing is not enough, and it's not well directed. That's what I believe and come here to defend. It's not enough. And not only do I think so, but important social actors are of the same opinion. I think it is difficult to find a counselor from your Government who has had such strong criticisms as you have had this week (this week and some coming from behind) from the trade unions. The country's main union has the whole legislature saying it wants to meet with you, and it hasn't done it yet. The third union has requested his resignation, and the second union has just been removed from the Social Dialogue Bureau. And that is that you have a full orientation in the service of the business sectors of the country and the sector of the ruling class of those companies, and not of the whole majority of the population of this country. Because you act thinking that the market is going to self-regulate, and that helping entrepreneurs like this is going to work. You believe, as liberalism says, that there is an invisible hand that is going to put things in place. You thought an invisible hand was going to solve the problems of the Basque industry, and you have met Lakshmi Mittal's steel fist crushing the Basque steel sector. We must not deny the problems, but confront them. The data deny the machacona propaganda of the Basque Government that it intends to present the Basque Autonomous Community as a power of first order in the field of technology. The raw reality is that we are below the European average, and far from the levels of the industrialized regions. And you will tell me everything that has been done, but I will tell you the results of what has been done in the area that we all define as central, which is that of R & D policy and investment. And what has turned out is that evolution has been negative: we are not only far away, but we are moving away and we are going backwards. In 2012, 2.06 of GDP was invested, in 2013 the 2 exactly, and in 2014 the 1.93. And you have to be careful who you compare to, which you like very much to compare with the Spanish state, because in the end you look like the one you take for reference. And if you take as a reference to the last of the class what you can do is become the penultimate of the class, and on top of that be content with it. Because really – and the data are what they are – the Basque Autonomous Community in terms of investment in R & D looks more like Spain than Germany; it is closer in terms of investment figures from Spain than Germany, because the Spanish State invests in 1.20, the Basque Autonomous Community in 1.93, and Germany in 2.84. So let's put things in place, and let's see that we're not as well as we're saying or evolving as well as we're all defined as central to industrial policy, which is to develop technology. Because China already spends more on R & D than the Basque Autonomous Community, it spends the same as Europe (and I no longer mean in absolute terms, logically, but in relative terms). So, that story that here we have a differentiated product, more quality and more competitive, let's see how long it will last when China maintains this level of investment! And if we don't wake up, he's gonna get us the bull. And stop complacency, let's put the problems on the table. We want to raise the imperative need for a new industrial model, and from our group we put forward five axes for that model. Because you, as you said, seem to let the market forces act, and you simply put yourself at the service of entrepreneurs to offer them different plans and so on, but without having a strategic vision of what the Basque productive sector should be. Before I spoke of the evils (I mentioned ten, I could have mentioned more), ten structural problems that are there, above times, and now I am going to raise five axes on which I believe a renewed Basque industrial system needs to be built. Firstly, socially committed, with greater participation, to fair labour relations and adequate wages. Secondly, it is environmentally sustainable and, for example, bets on energy, not on oil and this type of issue on which we are currently betting, but on other renewable energy sources. Thirdly, technologically advanced, and I have already referred to the disaster we have in terms of research and development figures. Fourthly, with a territorial vision, that it seeks cohesion, local development, and not leave you abandoned to whole skualdes. And fifthly, that it be fiscally responsible, that it ask entrepreneurs and companies to contribute according to their benefits for collective well-being. We have to have strategic vision, we have to try to develop a model. You're letting the market act. When it goes well, well, and when it goes badly, very badly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u70	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Casanova, I will start with the end, and really, when you tell me that we have no strategy, it gives me the impression that, either we have not been in the same committees and in the same Parliament, or that you are doing here today a little bit of paripé, forgive me. Because when I take you to committee all the strategic plans, all the strategy I carry and so on, you say I only carry papers, plans and power points, and yet the strategy is there. You can read well the plans, the future strategies of all these actions, by the way, carried out mostly by the private agents (and not by the entrepreneurs, by the private agents) of this country, which are the ones that generate most of the employment, and from there when you want to talk again. But read it, please, and we're going to detail things. When you talk about it being misdirected, maybe that's why we said it before: you have a model that's different from mine. However, it makes me a little strange, because also when he talks about the five important lines for you he talks about the participation of the workers. If something has been done in this legislature, it is the issue of workers' participation in decision-making in a company. From the simplest, which is the participation in management through the company, to the participation in the taking of capital, for which we have worked the councillor Toña and I with many companies and in many lines of action, and we also have a special fund with the association ASLE, of participation of workers in the company. Therefore, you note that you have not read the Industry Plan that already exists at this time. He's talking to me about energy efficiency. Energy efficiency that is currently carried out in both private and public sector actions, from the Basque Energy Agency, where our companies (I don't say entrepreneurs: companies) have made a number of important investments and where we are examples of action. But it has been even out of necessity, to make necessity virtue. Why? Because, as the electricity cost was so high, the first actions in energy efficiency have taken place in our companies. They exist. Therefore, it draws a lot of attention to me, but, really, you read things right. Secondly, you were talking about R & D and technology. That's right, we've dropped in R+D+i investment, but I'm going to tell you more. Of course, from the department, in technology programmes aimed at companies we have increased by 8% from 2014 to 2015, and by 9-10 % from 2015 to 2016. However, private investment has not accompanied so much, because the situation was so complicated that companies have not prioritized it. We must therefore work together, as we have always done. The government is going to make that public effort, and the company has to make its private effort and it really believes that this is serious, and that this is where its future is going. And I agree with you on that, but don't just look at us; look at the private side, because it is almost 75% of the investments that are made. Secondly, I believe that in R & D+i I have never, ever, ever compared this government with the Spanish state. He'll have used it on the scale. We know perfectly well that our example would be..., I am not going to tell you Germany anymore; in this case I prefer it to be Sweden or the Nordic countries, which are almost 4%. That's what I'd really like, and that's my example. But we all have to. And when you say that our policy is directed at the entrepreneur, let's not confuse it. It is aimed at the company, generating wealth and employment. That's where it's headed, because that's where our programs have to go. Obviously, someone is responsible for the company, but there we have to focus so that they continue to generate employment and continue to generate wealth. And that's going to be our policy, because it can't be another. We must continue to work for that to be a reality and remain the main actors in this country. You say that we intervene little, that we have to intervene more. I'll tell you something else. As in some places we do recognize that we do things right, both in Europe and in other countries, and not only this government, but also the previous ones, because it is a path of country... Precisely the last time we were in the United States presenting something that had been asked of us, which presented the technological and industrial model of this country, they drew our attention to us saying that we were excessively interventionist. Look at what a difference it is! And in Europe, they take us as an example in the Committee of the Regions for our industrial policy and our R & D & i policy. Go on, analyze it, and ask. I'm talking about Europe. Our model is not the American, it is true, but the European model also takes us as an example. And, if not, look at all the publications that have to do with us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interface, members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Knörr, members of the Popula team, made to the Chief of the Society and to aid their families in the United States." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning. 3. Of assisting the family of Familias in the Esquimia of Erdi. The International Plan has run out of time. From 2011 to 2015 this plan was due. A plan like that is a reference to promote different family policy. The family is a basic social structure that plays a fundamental role in ensuring coexistence and social cohesion. This has been the case in the past, this is the case in the present, and let us hope that it will remain so in the future, despite – also true – the evolution that the institution of the family has had in recent decades, with different forms of family and different typology. As a family structure is the basic structure of society, it has an important role for us to promote each other's life and cohesion. The family can say that it is the basic unit of social articulation, agent of integration and social, economic and political well-being. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights itself defines the family as a basic unit of our society and natural environment for the development and well-being of all its members, especially children and young people, who must be helped and protected so that they can play a role in society in the future. A culture based on tolerance, mutual respect and equality are the values that have made this institution a fundamental part of the functioning of society. The family is one of the most valued institutions of our society, since it is not in vain the main agent of socialization and care and protection among its members. And it is precisely in times of economic crisis that it becomes the social network of greater protection of its members. But it has to be said that families at present have different characteristics and typology than families in past times, which must be taken into account when designing any policy in the family sphere. The family at this moment has different features which must be considered in order to promote any policy in the future. The family plan is one of the most important developments of Act No. 13/2008 on Support for Families, according to which the family is the group..., the family is defined as the group of two or more persons who are united by marriage or a relationship similar to that of the spouse or by filiation or any other kind of kinship. There are special characteristics that must be taken into account in today's society when designing family policies, and in particular when drawing up family plans as a framework for the basic action of the public authorities in family policies: the access, obviously, of women to the labour market, and the challenges that still exist (we have spoken today, brought a colleague of mine, Cristina Ruiz, a question about the wage gap that still exists for women in the labour market); the extension of the period of formation of young people, which involves the late emancipation; the existence of different types of families (single-parent families, reconstituted, with and without children...); the delay in the decision to have offspring; the low birth rates (this is a matter to be taken into account in our autonomous community, in Basquedi, knowing that we have the lowest birth rates not only in Spain, but in Europe); also the decrease in the number of births and the average number of children that are today with a plurality; the greatest hope of life (there are also families and divorces; the more, the more so-called families, the more families, the more families and the more families. For us the family plan, therefore, is a reference framework for guiding family policies, and its ultimate objective is to improve the quality of life, with the design and implementation of cross-cutting policies that reflect different strategic lines of action, with concrete measures that involve different departments and at different institutional levels. I believe that any family plan..., and I believe that also in that sense is a reference the national plan, the Comprehensive Family Support Plan approved in this legislature, 2015-2017. I believe that it is a comprehensive, very concrete document that pursues very specific objectives that directly affect the family and, as I said earlier, the ultimate objective of improving the quality of life of families. He said that there were issues that needed to be taken into account, such as progress in the social, legal and economic protection of families; addressing socio-demographic challenges related to ageing and low birth rates; support for motherhood; ensuring sustainability and social cohesion through support for families; fostering intergenerational and intrafamily solidarity; helping to build a society of solidarity with families; preferential support for families in special situations; eradicating inequalities that originated in the family core itself; and advancing the institution of the family as a key element in social cohesion. Among the measures to be decided, of course, all those measures that have to do with employment support, social benefits, fiscal measures and other measures of direct economic support to families, as well as measures that have to do with the provision of services (housing, education, health) and other measures for the inclusion of families must be taken into account. As I said, the III Institutional Plan for Family Support in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has come to an end. It had a planned term 2011-2015, with a number of principles that inspired this plan that have to do with the reconciliation of personal, family and work life, the empowerment of families... The various public and private entities must take into account, as indicated in this plan which has come into force, families when designing their actions. This plan includes – i.e., a series of strategic lines with specific objectives in each of the strategic lines and a series of measures or actions to be implemented. The plan itself also provides for the preparation, conduct of evaluations at various stages, half the duration of the plan and also the completion of the plan, with a view to ascertaining the degree of implementation of the plan in force. Therefore, once the III Institutional Plan for the Support of Families in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has come to an end, we want to know, and since we are also finishing this legislature, that we are at the last session of this legislature, whether it is the Government's intention to refer the new inter-institutional plan for the support of families to the Basque Parliament for debate and approval. And also, as the evaluation of the previous plan is prior to the preparation of this plan, we would like to know, as far as possible – if the adviser can answer us, we would appreciate it – how is the evaluation of the aforementioned plan that has ended its validity. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u74	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u75	Good morning, Congressmen. Give me, Mrs Garrido, before I answer the question, to make a present of some activities that have been done by the head management of Family Policies and Social Developments last year. In fact, the Third of the Art Organization to help the families. They respond to the targets on the planet. That families are the basis of our society, I fully share your statement, Mrs Garrido. I share it and have it very internalized, personally. I'm going to give you some data, which is still too many, but good. In implementation of the Decree of 2006 on financial assistance to families with children, 32,269 grants were granted last year for each dependent son or daughter, 9,321 of which were for the first son or daughter, 13,300 for the second son or daughter, and 9,500 for the third or subsequent. Similarly, 551 specific aid was granted, of which 501 were by childbirth or multiple national adoption, 47 by single international adoption and three by multiple international adoption. We also recognised the dual nature of aid for disability of 33 % or more in 236 cases. Under another decree of 2002, which regulates financial assistance to families with children, 383 grants were paid for childbirth or multiple adoption. Under Decree 177/2010, on aid for the reconciliation of family and working life, nearly 18,000 persons (17,970) were beneficiaries last year: 17,194 were beneficiaries of aid to workers in situations of over-work or reduction of working hours for the care of children; 376 were beneficiaries of aid to workers in situations of over-work or reduction of working hours for the care of dependent family members; 400 were beneficiaries of aid for the recruitment of workers for the care of children or minor children. During 2015, 1,893 family support files were processed in the provision of the family mediation service, of which 579 were pre-mediation, 877 were mediation, and 447 were follow-up. Of these, 1,041 files correspond to Bizkaia, 465 to Álava, and 387 to Gipuzkoa. We received 56 applications for registration of mediators, professionals, 46 of whom were accepted and three were denied, and seven pending recovery. We have produced a new brochure on the activity of public family mediation services of the Basque Government, which are now distributed in 2016 among professionals from different fields, education, health care and other public and private entities active in the field of family policies. In 2015, on the website of the Concilia+ portal, aimed at providing tools for conciliation and the development of conciliation measures, we received 70,000 visits and 356 personalized consultations, of which 52% related to the exercise of the reduction of the day. In relation to the tools I have to highlight 3,807 self-diagnoses about the state of conciliation in companies, and on Facebook we made 44 publications. In 2015 we practiced 2,605 registrations of declarations of formation of couples in fact, and we made 851 cancellations of these couples. In 2015, two meetings were held with those responsible for the registration of couples of the territorial delegations of Labour, Employment and Social Policy located in each of the historical territories, to address changes to the regulation of the registration of de facto couples of the community. 40,500 large family cards were developed and distributed. An inter-institutional technical group of large families was formed, in which the Basque Government is represented, through the Directorate of Family Policy, and each of the outlaws. The interinstitutional technical group of large families held several meetings, at which different modalities were discussed in the application of the management of the titles and issue of the cards of large families gizarte.net, and in particular those aimed at adapting the application to the amendment of article 6 of Law 40/2003 on Protection of Large Families, which allows a large family to maintain that condition even if the number of children who meet the conditions for being part of the title is lower than required by law while at least one of them meets the conditions provided for in article 3 of the said Law, etc. I want to go on. In 2015 we materialized the possibility of telematically submitting applications for financial support to families with children. We also apply this aid programme through Zuzenean, and in particular to all applications for financial aid for birth, adoption, pre-adoptive family care and guardianship of persons over the age of eighteen submitted since 2 November in the comprehensive documentary management system of the Basque Government, Dokussi. In September, on the Basque website, we set up a computer app, a simulator that allows people interested in financial aid, both aid to families with dependent children and to help them reconcile family and working life, to calculate their standard family income and, consequently, the specific amount of aid they receive. Forgive me if I have overwhelmed you with all this information, Mrs Garrido, forgive me, but it was at least our obligation to phase in this first intervention, to highlight all the contributions that we have made from the Family Directorate, from our department, and from the Government in the final analysis, in favour of families, of the family strategy, of the family support plan, and of our investment bet on families and children, of which I will then give you more details in the second part, and also with regard to the more specific question of the inquiry concerning the 2016 family support plan of the Basque Government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Eskerrik asko. I really appreciate all the details you've given me. You have specified all the help you've had about families in every way. I appreciate that. It is true that we get this information from both Poppsa and the other parties, but the purpose of this interpelation was to know that, since the family plan in which it was established has exhausted its period, this government has to know when it intends to send a new family plan. He said that we are grateful for the information given to us by the adviser, who has provided us in this rostrum by the adviser, on the development and number of aid given by the Basque Government under the numerous decrees provided for in the development of the Family Law itself. It is information that we have obtained from the groups through the various initiatives that we have transferred to this House, as it is appropriate to do in strict control of the Government, but the object of this inquiry, Mr. Counsellor, was, once the third Inter-Agency Family Support Plan 2011-2015 has been completed, to know whether it is the intention of this Government to proceed with the elaboration of a new one. And also, as before the elaboration of a new plan it is necessary and mandatory to have evaluated the plan whose validity has ended, we wanted to know if the evaluation of the plan is being carried out, especially in order to see the degree of implementation of the measures, the fulfilment of the objectives, broken down into different strategic lines. It seems important to us that, and to be able to get out of your answer here today if it is a forecast by the Basque Government, if they do not have it planned..., if they are in it, well, then what is the degree or the concrete situation in relation to the elaboration of this plan. And we would also like, once the evaluation of the above-mentioned plan can be made, to refer it also to the House in order to be able to analyse it, and also to have the maximum instruments to be able to draw up among all the fourth inter-institutional plan of support for families in Euskadi, the best plan and, of course, a plan that obeys the challenges that families currently face in Euskadi, and above all a plan that really improves the quality of life that our families have. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u78	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u79	Thank you, ma'am. I'll explain, I think, your question, Mrs Garrido. Apart from what has been stated, positive parenthood and reactional programs have been developed. 86 professionals have participated in everything. 70 of these, and in the evaluation received, the average of the 10th, was nine years old. So it was very good. The website Gurasotasuna, aimed at professionals working with families in 2015, our website received 14,534 visits. We developed research and pilot projects for the approval of safe attachment and parental sensitivity in preparation and postpartum in health centers. The pilotages have been developed in the health centers of Vitoria, and they took part twenty-four families. The Lehen urratsak programme was developed, which aims to strengthen damaged links between the child and his/her primary caregiver or caregiver in families at medium-low psychosocial risk. We have developed a pilot programme for guidance to co-parenthood in a family crisis situation. I would also like to highlight research into the state of the issue of the involvement of Basque parents in upbringing, co-responsibility and work, with the aim of defining a strategy and new actions. Another section is the overall planning, coordination and evaluation of family policy in the Autonomous Community, and I am getting closer to what you are most interested in. More specifically, in 2015 we adopted three decrees: the decree on economic aid to support families with children, the decree amending the other decree on aid for the reconciliation of family and labour assistance, and a decree amending the decree on the system of standardization of family income within the framework of these family policies. Also, in 2015 we approved the following orders: Order of April 1, 2015 approving the thresholds of standardized family income, amount and percentage. We have continued to strengthen the participation of different public administrations and social entities through the Basque Family Council. And we are – and I am going to finish – right now with the Basque investment strategy for children and families, which, if you want, this strategy would have no problem if we called it a plan rather than a strategy, or, what would be the same, a strategic plan to support families. The same goes for it; I believe that the important thing is to address the problem of families. I literally said, our goal is more ambitious than a family plan 2016. Our bet is the long-term strategy. I repeat: strategic plan for investment in families and children, multi-annual, interdepartmental, inter-institutional, whose draft is in the possession of the Basque Government. Tomorrow, on the third day of the days on positive paternality, we give you, in some way, the exit gun. And we have a coordination and adjustment work that will be carried out with the participation of third sector institutions and citizens. The social interest in this issue that you bring here today to this Parliament, Mrs Garrido, and to which I am trying to respond, is great, very great, it is true. More than seven hundred people are debating during these three days in Bilbao, San Sebastián and Gasteiz about the co-responsibility of parents and reciprocity. This strategy, this strategic plan, will respond to the needs of families and their members. There would be no problem, if that is the problem, in calling it a plan (I repeat, we will call it a strategic plan), but the government's purpose, whether or not it is to forward the 2016 plan, I think I answer it by saying that we will forward it when the strategic plan for investing in families and children is sufficiently developed, multi-annual, interdepartmental and inter-institutional, when it is out of draft and becomes a plan that makes it possible for it to be presented in this Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The eleventh subject on the subject list: "Interregative, members of the Basque Barrius Barrojia Group, made to Enplegu and the head physician of the National Society, about the final standards of the Companatives of the Eustivity." Mr. Barrio is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u81	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, Counselor, ladies and gentlemen. It is not a new issue, but it is an important issue the regulation of cooperatives and the need for a new law on cooperatives in this country. We are on March 18, 2016, shortly after the end of this legislature, and the draft law on cooperatives of Euskadi has not arrived, it does not arrive. Cooperatives, we all know, are, together with other corporate formulas defined in Law 5/2011, of Social Economy, an expression for us very close, powerful, of a way to generate wealth, to make economy, to generate employment; with social characteristics that it is necessary to preserve, but above all to preserve and maintain them in time it is necessary to update, it is necessary to continue to regulate, to modernize we could say. The current Law 4/1993 (twenty-three years ago we passed this law in this Parliament), of Cooperatives of Euskadi, has fulfilled and continues to fulfil an important role, but it is absolutely essential its modernization, its reform, and the adaptation to new circumstances and legal, societal and economic needs that have, of course, broken out in these years of force. They have been disrupted by the very dynamics of the societal and entrepreneurial evolution of social economy enterprises, in this case cooperatives, also by new basic or European regulations on this issue. There are many new things also in Europe at this time in relation to the social economy and these ways of generating employment and wealth, and in this sense it is necessary to work, it is necessary to modernise and update. The Basque Government's commitment – we have already talked about this too – was to introduce a new law on cooperatives in Euskadi. That circumstance has not occurred, and we understand with concern, as we did before when we were still quite in time to neutralize that deterioration that we understood was the failure to introduce that law, we now understand that the deterioration is important, from our point of view, for the regulation of the sector. We note that the Government is slowing down in the importance it attaches to the social economy. Okay, there was a communication in 2014 regarding the social economy, which was not, curiously, submitted to monographic debate, but, well, we hoped that that non-monographical debate on social economy might be neutralized by the presentation of a cooperative law that would also trigger political debate in this House in relation to that so special and so our way of making social economy, cooperatives (and so necessary). That is, there was no case-by-case debate when the Government's communication on social economy was presented in 2014, and it seems that there will be no political and legislative debate on a necessary bill, as you made clear at the beginning of this legislature, and then at other times I will also recall. It seems that the Government has encountered obstacles. He has found internal obstacles, surely in the ability to define a final, updated legal text, he will have found those obstacles (we would like to know it), and external ones, perhaps with part of the sector as well. But the point is, it can't be. That is, we must always overcome the obstacles, we must overcome the obstacles. We know that these issues are not easy, they are complicated, and we must overcome them. And here we have also tried to advise ourselves. In other words, in view of these difficulties, experts came to this Parliament (and when I speak of experts it is at the highest level, university students); representatives of GEZKI, which is the Basque Institute of Cooperative Law and Social Economy, which depends on the University of the Basque Country, an institute already with a lot of work and many years of experience; experts came from the Basque Observatory of Social Economy, who have also informed the Government, who have also informed this Parliament, and experts from the Institute of Cooperative Studies of the University of Deusto also came. The three institutes and all these experts had a clear point in the need for new regulation, and they had also made proposals regarding the need for new regulation and a new law, in this case cooperatives. Some of them were also talking about a social economy law in relation to what was passed at the Congress of Deputies in 2011 on the social economy and perhaps also bringing it to the ground of the whole social economy in the Basque Country. But, in any case, they did refer specifically to their role as informants, their role as analysts in the need for reform of the Basque Cooperatives Act. I say again, there have been proposals and we have seen texts and there are drafts, and we have read them, and of course the Government has introduced them and brought them and let us see... What's the difficulty? What are the obstacles? Why won't there be a cooperative law in this legislature when it was an important law? In our view, of course, but in the opinion of the Government as well, and in the opinion of your department, Mr. Counsellor, as well. And that proposal, I say again, has been informed at the highest doctrinal level, at the highest theoretical level, by the three universities, and in this regard deserves attention. Before concluding, I would also like to say that the Government's own initiative, that is, the Government's own communication to this Parliament in 2014 at the request of Parliament, on social economy, in the field and aspect of initiatives, as regards encouraging the cooperative sector and the social economy, the first of these was the drafting of a modified Cooperatives Act. And why, because? No, no, First, by the analysis of the regulations, which has been amended since 93, date of adoption of the current law: since 93 there have been many things, many things have happened, here and outside of here, that affect the regulation of the social economy. For another reason, for harmonisation: there was a need for a coherent interpretation of the body of law on cooperative law and on cooperative regulation, and that was also another essential factor. And for innovation, because there was a need to innovate and a great deal of improvement in the regulation of infringements and sanctions, to give a more relevant role to the Higher Council of Cooperatives, it was necessary to give value to new forms of poorly regulated or poorly regulated or insufficiently regulated cooperatives, such as housing cooperatives or transport cooperatives. And in that regard, we were talking about three basic issues, namely necessary legislation, new legislation, harmonisation, and innovation. Sufficient matter or sufficient questions to have had this bill here and to have considered it in time. Because it's not a short bill or a bill that gets out of hand right away. No, no, It is going to be a complex bill, a bill that needs to be analysed and studied in depth, and unfortunately this Parliament is not going to be able to do so, it is quite clear. We said a lot of things have happened since 2013. A lot. Many affect the social economy, and in this case the cooperatives. We saw the report of the Ciriec to the European Economic and Social Committee, with issues relevant to the modernisation of the social economy and in the European Union (that is, that also here); the European Permanent Conference of Cooperatives, Mutuals, Associations and Foundations; the Statute of the European Cooperative Society, also the law of the Congress of Deputies of 2011; the Charter 2010, supporting cooperatives and social enterprises; the Toya Report (we have already referred to it many times), already in 2009, which was a resolution of the European Parliament; the opinion of the European Economic and Social Council in relation to the different types of enterprise...; here, our own Law on Social Economy of 2011 of the Congress of Deputies, but also our own Law of the Small Cooperative Society, which to see how it integrates into the new regulation; the reports we have received from the OVES, the communication of the Government of 2014... There are many things that are influencing, there are many things that we understand will be left for another legislature. We have heard the Director of Social Economy many times in her appearances or in working days in relation to this need. We are very sorry, Mr. Counsellor, that this law does not come here, and you will have to explain to us what the obstacles are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u82	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u83	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, is a good day. Thank you. Mr. Barrius, as has been said several times, has the intention and criterion of accepting the Eucacian Building, by the Council of Government, and once accepted, that it may be discussed and accepted. Don't you doubt it. We're going to make a sort of Intervention between you and me. We've even got a bit of a vote on it. The structure of the law follows the usual course of time placed within the limits of it. You've got a lot of experience about this and I'd say more than I do. And you know, despite the pressure of the law, they are whatever they are. As I told you in Basque, you have more experience than I do in these dealings, much more than I do, obviously. And you know that, as much as you push, legal deadlines are what they are. But we share and will make similar interventions, one from your parliamentary group and one from the Basque Government. I myself, quite a few years ago, was a professor of forms of enterprise, and an important part of teaching was dedicated precisely to the study of co-operativeism. And that just shows my own personal vocation on these issues. I can tell you that at the moment the preliminary draft law is in the process of the Cojua report, which admitted it to the procedure on 24 February 2016, because until a week earlier we did not receive the mandatory report from the ECO. And, in accordance with article 26 of Law 9/2004, which regulates the Cojua, she has two months to deliver the opinion. So, February 24th, April 24th, running out of time. And, as you are also well aware, it is the last prior to your referral to the Governing Council. As for the deterioration, or, as you say, the slowdown, which you have now conceptualized, for the regulation of the sector to which you refer in the inquiry, because of the not yet (yet) presentation of the preliminary draft law referred to, I must remind you and remind this House that the substantive norm of Basque cooperatives, which, as you have said, dates back to 1993 but has been repeatedly amended in many respects... This, by the way, confirms the concern, the historical diligence deployed for their adaptation to the economic circumstances, often occurring, and to the collateral laws regulating them. But all this implies a sufficient body of regulation, which has served as a support for an important economic and entrepreneurial reality of our community, giving legal certainty to the internal and external relations originating from it, and also intervening for the development and empowerment of cooperatives. Since 1993, we have continued to grow in this world. On the other hand, I share what has been said in the repeated inquiry as it is stated that the current standard, although stable in its essential structure and criteria, has fulfilled and continues to fulfil an important role. Then we agree, Mr Barrio, that the new law will better modify the current regulatory framework, but in any case what you call delay does not mean any serious deterioration for the situation of our cooperatives, very fortunately for them and for all of us. With regard to the urgency of your parliamentary presentation, which this Councillor for Employment and Social Policy also shares with you, Mr Barrio, the vicissitudes suffered by the initial project, caused above all by the major business crisis, and this is more because of its iconic nature than because of its real economic and social impact, finally resolved, by the way, I believe that in a model way, and we will share, in application of a principle of inter-cooperation that has been able to resolve it. And you know perfectly well which company I'm talking about, and the whole House too. The same sense of prudence and legislative opportunity therefore requires us to regulate well in order to confirm in the end the original normative criteria, albeit more diaphanously than what they were so far, in avoiding other alternative interpretations that could endanger some of the situations that we have discussed in the crisis to which we have referred before. Indeed, any modification of a norm of this normative rank, especially of a socio-economic sector so important to our country, far from being a mere technical-normative formality, which also requires time and professional attention, is, above all, a great act of economic and social significance. For this reason, the explanatory statement of the above-mentioned Law 8/2003 insists that the normative elaboration must be based on a deep knowledge of the social reality and of the subjects covered by it, in order to order satisfactorily, and in accordance with criteria of material justice, that reality, and to conceive and elaborate the regulations that are to be improved or replaced by more appropriate, intelligible and feasible ones than there have been so far. It should also be added that such regulation should promote the consolidation and development of this economic sector, responding to its real needs and preventing future needs. In advanced societies, as I believe is ours, and in the state of development of social and cooperative legal scaffolding, it is particularly necessary, precisely because it is complex, to strengthen rationality, not only legal coherence, but also the economic and social coherence of the rules; to incorporate into the process of reflection that involves its elaboration all the elements and all the institutional and social participation, in order to contribute to facilitate and legitimize precisely its computer function, its intelligibility, its consistency with the principles and rules that form the legal order in general, and the cooperative in particular, as the above-mentioned statement of reasons reiterates. This is a participatory process of proposal and discussion, both internal and external. Its alignment with the foreseeable economic and social development of the community is necessary. The previous considerations on the importance of a legal framework – which you have pointed out – that facilitates cooperative growth are reflected in the... And I am not going to repeat the series of documents from the United Nations International Cooperative Alliance, the United Nations, the European Commission, which have repeatedly spoken in these areas. And, on the other hand, cooperative law is incorporating – and this is a certain novelty – elements of corporate law in general, to facilitate its operator as a company competing in a market, and this makes it necessary to have special care to preserve corporate identity, that is, those essential institutions of cooperative law that are internationally recognized. Identity which also justifies an appropriate policy of cooperative promotion by the public authorities of the Autonomous Community. All this requires your time, Mr. Barrio, and that time is desperate for you and me. And it is the cost of opportunity for the right in the rule that we project, which, in turn, will entail stability for our cooperative order at once. It is a requirement of normative quality, and it is linked to the concepts of governance and good governance. In any case, efforts are being made to reduce, by providing information and collaboration, the regulated legal limits, which, on the other hand, are being met. Sometimes they are fulfilled as long as possible, but that is not up to us. The chronological extension in the elaboration of this preliminary draft is, in any case, within the parameters of the experience that we all have in the Chamber in the elaboration of general rules. When I arrived at this government in February last year, this rule was practically done, and during all this time, during these sixteen months, the procedures have been passed to which, later, in the second part of the inquiry, I will mention, although you know them well, and which the House knows them, and which are completed with this last phase of their pass through the Cojua, so that later I will come to the Governing Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u84	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u85	Thank you, Counselor, Madam President. Indeed, we are saying quite similar things, but I have to say that you have had a glaring problem of foresight in this regard. I mean, work hasn't done well. He hasn't done well, because he can't tell us... The news today is that that report is still in the Cojua, and that the Cojua still has until April 24 to evacuate the issues. And it will also have, because it is a complex law, with many legal issues, and indeed there will be issues of nuances, or issues not so much of nuances, that the Cojua will certainly analyze. I mean, it'll take time. With 24 April it means that this law will come in May, because after the Cojua we already know that there will have to be the necessary controls of translation and drafting, and of final approval, to take it to the Governing Council already with all guarantees. This bill will come in May, and it is impossible for a bill to enter in May, by internal deadlines, by publications, of these characteristics... That it is not a question of a point change, of a point change. This is an integral law, a very important law. It is impossible for that law to be passed in this legislature. That is, I believe that there has been an important, critical problem of forecasting this issue. You told me that when you took possession that law was almost done and almost cooked. Well, it's been a year and a year and we're almost the same. I mean, in that sense, I think... that's why I keep reporting delays. Well, yes, I do, because it's true, because that law was very important in a legislature like this. In a legislature in which cooperatives have had important problems, historical problems that they have never had, the most emblematic, in which there has been a crisis in the financing of cooperatives..., not only the economic crisis, but the one that they themselves have caused, well, by models, by failed financing formulas, and in this sense they have brought very important problems not only to the partners, but to people who have wanted to participate in that financing. They have also had internal criticisms, because there have been many cooperativeists, many companies, the most important ones, who have talked about problems of transparency, of problems of internal communication, of bad internal governments. I mean, it was the ideal legislature (now you can tell me that the next one will also be ideal..., because of course, the next one will be necessary) to do... This was the ideal legislature to give a message of renewal, of the modernity of cooperatives, as the universities told us, that it was necessary to update it and to do so already. It was very important, in the appearance that we had here with the experts, the professors of the universities that I said before, showed us... The proposal made by the three universities for the reform of the law, made to the Directorate of Social Economy a long time ago, is of particular importance: respect for the general provisions, spoke even of the principles formulated by the International Cooperative Alliance; to include express references to the subjection of cooperatives to certain issues, to certain cooperative principles, in the law; situations in relation to the general assembly (regulation of various measures guaranteeing the existence of calls..., again speaking, internal issues of the management of cooperatives itself); in relation to the social administration, duties of diligence and loyalty of the administrators and their responsibility, respect for the legal regime of the administrative organ, structure and a more flexible configuration; we were told about the monitoring commission (i.e., issues that had to be improved); we were told about a good governance of the cooperative societies, values of honesty and transparency, legal definition of that body to which I referred earlier; it is proposed to incorporate both the social council and the cooperative working committee of resources, both the legal regime and the legal system of the incorporation of certain innovations; All these issues must be regulated. He spoke of a basic issue, inspection and sanction in relation to the cooperative situation... That was a fundamental element, and that is going to remain, Mr. Counsellor, on the table, unfortunately, because of the lack of provision by the Government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u86	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u87	Thank you, ma'am. I share with you, Mr Barrio, as I believe has been sufficiently clear in the first intervention, the interest of the Basque public institutions (legislative, governmental) in providing this cooperative sector with a more secure legal structure, as well as facilitating its full development. Historical interest that can be easily verified in the works and documents of both institutions, and current interest with projection of the future. Complexity, on the other hand, which was reported by my predecessor in office on 14 July 2014, who, however, reiterated the commitment to present the bill to the House in this legislature. A commitment that has been made by our department, as it could not be otherwise, and that we seek to fulfil, as I have repeatedly stated; the last time I believe that on October 2, 2015. I will detail the milestones that have developed since February 2015: a justification for the normative impact, drawn up by the head of the Department's Social Economy; an economic memory drawn up by the head of the Department's Social Economy, on the content of article 42 of Decree 64/95; the final drafting of the final draft of the law; prior approval of the preliminary draft by the previous head of the department..., by the head of the department; hearing and public information were given to the sector concerned, to the Confederation of Cooperatives in Euskadi, the departments and institutional entities of the Basque Government were consulted, in particular, by three departments (there are deadlines that we cannot control; we have all told them – and then I will give them a data – that we want to deal with it in all the hurry we could); a process of participation and consultation with other administrations, participation in the procedure to the outside administration, as well as with the local administration through Eudel. With regard to reports and opinions, the following have been sought: prior gender impact assessment information as set out in the Equality Act; report of Emakunde-Instituto Vasco de la Mujer, as provided for in article 21 of the Law on Equality of Men and Women; report on the impact on the enterprise as set out in Law 16/2012 on Support for Entrepreneurs and Small Business in the Basque Country; legal report of the Department's Department of Services, as set out in Law 8/2003; report of the Directorate for Linguistic Standardization of Public Administrations, of the Deputy Language Policy Advisor of the Department of Education, as set out in Decree 233/2012; report of the Euskadi Higher Council of Cooperatives, as set out in Law 4/1993; report of the Economic and Social Council, as set out in Law 8/2012; report on economic and regulatory control issued by the Economic Control Office. At this time, as mentioned above, it is subject to the opinion of the Euskadi Legal Advisory Commission, prior to its approval by the Governing Council, also in compliance with the provisions of the repeated Law 8/2003 of 22 December. All of this we believe explains – I don't know if I dare say that it also justifies – the state of development of the norm. I have to say it's significant. The Ecomnomical Control Bureau, an experienced organ in this function, a report on which this file is being conducted. I'm done, Mr. Barrio. It is significant, and I cannot resist to quote to conclude, the demonstration made by the Office of Economic Control, an organ with accredited experience in this function, referring to the "premature" with which this file is being processed. They are not our words; they are words of the report of the Office of Economic Control itself. Indeed, the law will come in May. Reasonably, the law will certainly not be passed in this legislature. For my part, I have done what was in our hands; what is impossible we left for another time. I hope that this will be done quickly in the next parliamentary term. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u88	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask, "The question is, the members of the legislature of the Oyharland de Euskal Groups of Poulags made for the chief physician of Education, of Language politics, and of the Cultural School in France." Mr. Oyhale.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u89	Thank you, Madam President. From the seat. We want to know what assessment the advisor deserves that the annual feast of the Basque public school is celebrated outside our community, is celebrated in France, where there are no Basque public centers, and also do so with public money. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u90	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u91	Congressmans, Mrs. President, Mr. Oyhalland, good morning. Indeed, Mr Oyarzabal, the feast of the Basque public school is an annual event that has been held for many years with the aim of making visible and promoting the Basque public school. It is a party organized by EHIGE, the confederation of parents of the Basque public school; therefore, it is the association that decides, according to its analyses and evaluations, the center at which the annual festival of the Basque public school is celebrated. Normally, each year is celebrated in one of the historic territories of the Basque Autonomous Community. The festival of the public of the Basque School is not an event in which the Jailarius arranges and governs this festival, so that they decide where, when, and how to do it. And I don't think I'm involved in that decision. During these few days we've been able to see that this year's festival will be held in Hedaia. It is true that these days we have been able to see in the media that EHIGE has decided to celebrate this party outside the areas of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It should be remembered that EHIGE is also composed of parents residing in Iparralde. Specifically, EHIGE includes the parents' associations of Bizkaia, Gipuzkoa, Araba and Iparralde, and the families of the Txikiak Skola. What I can tell you about this, for the moment, is that EHIGE informed us at a meeting that they were analysing this possibility, and we expressed our opinion on this, ratifying our maximum commitment to the Basque public school and its more than seven hundred centers. It's those centers we owe to. Our work and effort is aimed at supporting and helping the Basque public school. And that's our responsibility and our desire and that's what we're telling EHIGE. As has been said, our decision is not of E.H.I.G.'s. In this sense it must be said that the final decision is of this society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, we already know that EHIGE organises it, but they could not organize it without the substantial subsidy they receive from the Basque Government. EHIGE lives on public subsidies, and the annual public school festival receives 50,000 euros from the Basque Government. The lehendakari recalled that the objective of this festival is to promote the public school between Basque society and for Basque society, public schools, to prestige them among Basque citizenship, aimed at Basque families and the media of our community. A former Education Advisor also said, at the request of our group, to our group's questions, "power these centers socially and academically." I was saying that in this very House, in this very rostrum. It is a question of promoting public schools in a particular locality, which have problems in a region, in addition to having a social impact, because we all know that it has a social, economic and positive impact on the chosen area. You said that every year in a historical territory, in a municipality, in a region of a historical territory, they alternate, with a massive influx of people that effectively serves to promote tourism the hospitality and the trade of a certain place. Madam Councilwoman, the political use of that party seems unacceptable to us. Now the goal of that party is perverted. It is not intended to be a party of all; it is proposed a deeply ideological party, a politicized party, which is only for nationalists. An insult to the mothers and fathers who enrol and who lead their children to study in public centers: they are forced, their children are called to an event for nationalists, an event serving the abertzale strategy. We think it's a shame. If the EHIGE confederation of mothers and fathers wants to hold events in Hendaya, Biarritz, Bayona or Sevastopol is indifferent to us, it seems phenomenal. If they belong to this association parents of French centers, phenomenal. They've already done it! They participate in events that organize these confederations of French parents, and we have said nothing. Look, what doesn't make sense is that the Basque public school party is being held in France. Listen, if you're subsidizing an association to promote theatre and dance among the Alavese schoolchildren, it doesn't make any sense for that association to be celebrating its events in France or England. You will demand that, if you are subsidizing activities for promotion among Basque schoolchildren, you will not be celebrating those activities in France. You're allowing that party to be perverted. You are allowing a particular political strategy to be used. Are there no public centers in our community that have problems? Are there no municipalities where there is a greater demand in the concerted centers, and are there public centers that have problems and we need to prestige them? Are there no Basque municipalities that would like to have this event of mass influx, which has a positive economic impact on their region? Of course I do! But you give money from all Basques to an association to do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u94	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u95	Mr. Oybard, as I have said before, the feast of the public euscal school is arranged by EHIGE, and the decision is theirs, and that's what's done to you, after you've put your memory in response to them, and if you've done it for the sake of money, you'll help me with the arrangements of the party. I don't appreciate whether the place you chose is right and how they made that decision either. However, you must know that our priority will be to defend the schools in the Basque Corporation. As you know, the festival of 2015 was celebrated at Eloires on June 7th. It's normal to fire at the very festival what will be the place you chose for the next year. But in this case no such ad was made. We have recently known the final position of the party; in this case it will be excluded from the community, and we hope it may be for the good of our public school, in preserving the spirit of the feast. We've always been there and we'll be willing to help the public Basque School. This festival is important and beneficial to us, so we've helped and helped the festival every year. And we hope the next year to enjoy the festival of the public eucalyptic school.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The thirteenth theme in the theme list: "The question is, "The question is, "The question is, The question is, "The lawmen of the FRRRG of the Cultural team have made to the head physician of education, Language, and Cultural, to run the pilot's project in the school halls." Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u97	Thank you. Yes, good morning, everyone. In the spring of 2014, we presented a different proposal in four schools to start a project pilot. He had been admitted to the law, and he said, "I'm not going to let you go." "The American is asking you to start a two-year-old project pilot in the four public schools of the public network, handling the dining-rooms through the educational management of the schools, organising them with local producers and traders, and using ecological food as much as possible." Twenty14-2015 study passed, despite the progress of some work, which was very rare. The year of study 2015-2016 is also going on, and not one of the four schools has yet started, and we would like to know what the state of each school is. And as we were saying in the question, whether in these four schools the pilot project will be on its way in this course of learning.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u98	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u99	Ma'am of the table, Mr. Lazarus, good morning. The program you mentioned should have been directed to manage the pilot in the dining-room at four public schools in the public network, managed by school itself or by parent associations. I mean, it's not just taking the responsibility to buy what's necessary, it's the entire service management with the complexities it has with it. This section is in the course of 2014-2010 study, with the schools that have shown interest in it, and in our relationship with EHIGE, telling us everything we do. By the way, I must say, only five schools have shown interest in the project, and one of them also refused to take part in it. So we're still working with the other four schools: Urduña, Laureraz, Allende Salazar of Guernica, and Bekoben of Markina. The object is to set these projects running with all speeds and assurances, so that we may be able to examine the realability of this model of handling.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u100	Thank you, chief physician. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u101	Yes, the question was exactly whether or not you expect us to start this year. You haven't answered me on the first round, I hope in the second to take this engagement publicly here, because it seems to us that recently the legislature has decided to make a process of changing the model of managing the dining-rooms of the schools. And this pilot of a project seems to us to be able to make a great contribution to this process, because it is possible to evaluate the model of the schools which are managed by our modern catering system and our planning on this pilot project. And that it may be evaluated, considering the opinion of the students, of their parents, of the management of the schools, of the workmen. And even economic costs can be evaluated. And even beyond the schools it seems to us that in the local economy of farmers, fishermen, traders, we must also consider the tendency to local economy, and that in our landscape, the influence of environment, and biodybertity, we must consider all this in order to choose the pattern of management which the schools require. There has been difficulties on the way and, of course, they will still be able to make a new model for the school-rooms, and even put these pilots on the move. It is clear, however, that as there is much difficulty in all things, they are all capable of being overcome with political will. And we don't want to look back, focus on the work that hasn't been done, and we want to look forward to it, because we feel like we need a new wind in the dining rooms, we want to be positive, and you know we'll be able to help you in that sense. There's a lot of work to do, there's a lot of responsibility and we hope you're going to act with real political will, because the situation demands that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u102	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u103	Mr Lazarobaster, we must be fully aware of all the complexity inherent in the proper management of the catering service, which includes, among other things, the recruitment or subrogation of the necessary staff, maintaining their working conditions, both of the catering staff and of the monitors and monitors; the subscription of the necessary insurance covering any circumstances that may occur; the management of parental quotas; the adoption of the necessary measures to ensure the safety and hygiene of the service; the hiring with authorized suppliers; accounting and billing; the management of special menus (celiac, allergic and other intolerances) and a long one. I have observed by this that it is a laborious task, and a great deal of difficulty. so that we have been able to verify the work we have done with our parents, and so we have been able to tell them over and over again. I'll cut off the main steps that I've taken so far. The five schools who had shown the interest of joining the project, were all asked for a project which would be difficult for service. The village school was not yet interested in the project. In the case of Urduha, which has recently been informed, they have not, therefore, a necessary health permit, but we wait for the explanation of this matter. As for the squares, the project was demanded to be redefined, for it did not determine the principal parts of the management. After a few months, he's been introduced this week. And in the case of the College of Allende Salazar, after developing the project, there remains a side to be defined. However, their intention is to begin the next year's study. And in the end, the Markina Bokoben school is the one that's the most advanced and next month the pilot of the project is to put their plans in action in April. Yesterday they told us they'd bring him back to the Holy Week. As you can see, four centers, four responses and four different rhythms, and on the way questions arise from what do we do with the previous staff?, are all shops authorized to supply food according to health requirements?, how is a possible accident covered? This department has been fully implicated in helping the schools that have been introduced into the pilot of the project. By this means, when he came in, our purpose has been to guarantee your goal, namely, that we may draw conclusions concerning the competency of this model of management, and of course not refuse the quality of service, and above all, without refusing to give up the health of our children. And it's not easy at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the group of Jon Azkue Manterola Eusia Sozialists made for the head physician of Education, Language politics, and Culturate, with the destruction of Profus' coke-labe's battery of historical domains." Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u105	Good morning, chief of departments. Good morning, everyone. I'll ask again and a little slowly, too. In the face of the dismantling of Profusa's coke battery in Barakaldo, the last battery of this calibre of Basque steel, what measures did you, your department, the government in short, take to protect the conservation of the battery, as repeatedly requested by the Basque Association of Industrial Heritage and Public Works? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u106	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u107	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Azkue, the Council of Barakaldo, has informed us that the only license which has been given to Profuss has not been to destroy the labyrinth, but to create a wall to secure security, which the Town himself required. So, on the side of the City Council, there's not a license given to the ovens, and the Basque Environment and Regional Politarian Department have given us any permission to remove the pollution of the factory floors. Moreover, considering that the Euscal Society for the Industries and the Public Office has made a complaint, we have asked about it, and that in answer to our question there is no motion to be seen by the Vision of the Township of Barakalus. Apparently, according to their information in it, Profusan is not making any appeal. In any case, and I have clarified this point, I must add that this Government is acting to protect the good, considering it to be a fundamental element in the history of the Basque steel industry. The necessary preliminary studies are currently being carried out for the initiation of the protection file.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u109	I didn't think, no, that would be the answer. Why do we have to consider one thing is what the City Hall of Barakaldo has done? He did not expect it to compare the performance of the department with that of the Barakaldo City Council, which is true that, in the face of the complaint made by the association, he learned that there was no license granted by that town hall for dismantling. It's true. I mean, the city didn't even know anything, and you didn't answer anything from the department. I think it fills our mouths, really, with defending the industrial heritage. Two, we are filled with our mouths, in this case in a paper that exists in this House, with the need to take much more care of a region such as the Left Margin, which, by the way, is the subject of "hey, let's develop an industrial tourism", which for that it is necessary to take into account not only the mines, the blast furnace, etc. We're going, in short, something I think out of inaction, which is the worst thing that can happen in this case to the department. And it is true that what we ask of you is something very, very concrete. Do something! Do something about the company, because what is going to happen is that, something that can preserve and even be a factor of economic and social development even in an area such as the Left Margin, it remains in no way because of the inaction of its department and the government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u110	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u111	Mr. Azkue, I don't think you've heard my first answer! I told him we got in touch with the city council and with inspection, and he told us there was no movement. There's no movement. I therefore believe that the answer is given here. And in the process of developing research and protecting his industrial community, Euskadi has been one of the leading communities. We've been working with the Basque Institute and the Basque People's Department of Investus, and we're working on this area. We're working to protect the property in the concrete case of the company at Profusa. But this government ought not to lose the global view which ought to be within the limits of the protection of its inheritance. Since 2000, 55 railway and 112 industrial units have been protected. More than 5.5 million euros have been invested in protected industrial heritage over the past 15 years, specifically in such important projects as Apollod-Fleisner in Ortuella, Dolomites in Karrantza, the Martín Ugalde building in Andoain, or the Salinas de Añana Royal Warehouse. And it is planned to invest in the period 2015-2017 a total of 704,088 euros more in this field. Not to mention the investments made in territorial tourism dynamism, in industrial heritage, about 8 million euros. In any case, we must be aware that all these protected elements represent a small part of our industrial heritage. To give us an idea of what we are talking about, between 1990 and 1993 the Basque Association of Industrial Heritage and Public Works, with the help of the Basque Government, carried out an inventory of 1,227 elements of Basque industrial heritage. In 2006, the inventory items became 2,680. This shows us the wealth of our industrial heritage, as an important part of the history of our people, but at the same time it necessarily leads us to design plans for action in the more global sphere. The question is not a specific element, such as the competition in Profusa, empty protection. The point is that we have to establish a plan to protect our industrial community, and this plan, on the one hand, allows us to support the industrial community. And, on the other hand, the protocol that helps us to discuss the methods of playing a system which will be useful to the value of the elements, will also enable us to discuss it with the municipals and corporations. That's the best way to protect the industrial community in Basque Autonomy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The fifteen and sixteen points on the subject list will be discussed together. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interlation of Jule's Arzuga Gumuaga Gumutius EH Collector of the Union, a member of the Security Department, a bill of prevention and shadow of fire and a state of salvation." The 16th point in the theme list: "Interpologies, members of the Basque Socialists, of the Social Security Department, of the prevention and shadow of fire and the bill of life service." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u113	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. And I want to welcome the representatives of the fire unions, the workers, the professionals, because I think you are the heart of this law and the true leading man. This will be the first time we have occasion to talk to the chief physician, the Beltran de Heedi, to this project of laws. And I also think it will be the first opportunity and the last. At least on this text. In fact, I can see clearly that he has to retire and I can see that it will happen. I mean, she's going to retire. In other laws the Government has acted differently. He talked to the professionals, talked to the technicians, talked to the unions, the associations, even talked to the parliamentary teams. Nothing like that this time. And I think I can imagine why that was the way it was this time. I suppose the department didn't have to do this, because it was enough to agree with the organizations that serve fire service-that is to say, with Gasteiz, Bilbo, the municipal governments of Donostia, and with the Araba, Bizia, and the Gipui. You had only to talk to these institutions when they were all of the same political color. You thought everything was done and there was nothing else to do. It is not a suspicion or an idea that we were thus told in the law of the emerities, that is to say, you would not have touched the consent of the organizations interested in this matter. You've made this institutional agreement, or at least that's what you think, but that's why you didn't want to tell anyone else. This law, I think, you've interpreted it as a purely technical issue, but it's not like that. This law has a soul, it has a heart and has a potential content. There's a lot in the game, and that's how the fire unions started. They want a law, the society must have a law, but not a law to be built upon this text. We have also seen that this text is not suitable, nor has it been transmitted, that is, in form, what does not involve it, that is, in the past. Motives and other propositions, according to custom, have been extended from the groups of opposition. In the councils and in the councils, PSE introduced her into Bizka, PP put her in the name of Marotus, and EH Collectan presented her at Aran, Bilbon, and Gipuzia. And we will find out where the position of each organization is. When political logic is applied, we think that the political position which will be seen will here be disturbed and reflected. This leads us to an entire correction. At least we'll run it that way and hope to protect all opposition. As I have said, because this bill of laws is not the law of fire or of the society of Euskal, since it is impossible to create a proper law on this text, which we now have. I will try to explain the reasons why we consider this text to be invalid. An unquestionable position: the mandatory report submitted by the Economic and Social Council – and I quote – warns that the failure to negotiate with trade unions issues related to the labour provisions of the preliminary draft would render null and void the future law. This is why, conclusively and also decisively, the ESC asks the Executive to suspend the preliminary draft for the opening of negotiations and the incorporation of agreements. Similar mark in participation, or similar tara of obscurantism, we consider that it is more than enough to return the law. But it is not a mere question of form, it is not a whim: the fire and fire unions have also expressed their concern about what they put in this law, and also about what does not appear in it. We share with them substantive issues, such as the risk that this law is opening up to privatization, such as the fact that the precariousness of working conditions is not curbed, the fact that it roots the interinity with the figures that it is proposing part-time firefighters or volunteer firefighters, do not solve issues relating to professional groups or the second activity... But, as far as the substance is concerned, for us important, it does not address the debate on the organization, on how to give effect to the functions that should be covered by the SPEI, on its charter of services, on how to reorganize this service by homogenizing services and functions without standardizing these bodies, i.e. respecting the diversity and specificity of the entities on which they depend. Nor is the debate on how coordination with other security bodies or with other agencies involved in emergencies being addressed; functional coordination, and not in terms of subordination, as is now being interpreted, subordination leading to a continuing loss of functions, to spaces being sharpened, functions being fulfilled by the SPEI, and has already been derived from readjustments, or, for de facto reasons, they are benefiting other bodies, and in particular Ertzaintza. A debate, as we say, addicted to origin, because it has not participated in the main source of information, knowledge, evaluation and also diagnosis, which are the workers. We believe that this area of origin, such a vacuum, cannot be resolved by means of partial amendments. The parties, the parliamentary groups, cannot also usurp the role that professionals have, we cannot deprive them of the word that must be heard in their time and place. We don't want to supplant your opinion, not at least EH Bildu. They will understand that it is not the same to work on a bill that has a favorable opinion of the professionals, or at least that they have had the opportunity to issue it, or to work on a law with the social part mobilized, with the firefighters on the street. We can't make deaf ears to that cry. That's not at least EH Bildu's style of work. Let me be clear: in this or any other legislative process, EH Bildu intends to complement the opinion of the social base, never replace it. In the appearances that have taken place in the committee we have been able to listen to four unions (trade unions of various origins, say, ideological, plural) and one platform, and all five have coincided in their claim to be taken into consideration. His concern seems to us to be responsible, reasonable, and his attitude has always seemed positive, proactive and constructive. That is why, and as far as we are concerned, we believe that we have heard enough. Our decision is taken, and our determination with regard to this legal text will be to do everything possible to get it back to the Government. And we also consider that because of the decantation of political forces, and seeing a little of the panorama of support that is being given to this law, is, sooner or later, the scenario to which we are going. There are two ways to push her back. One, which is at the will of the Government, withdrawing the law and recognizing its mismanagement. The other, by means of an amendment to the totality endorsed by the opposition, obliging the Government in this case to acknowledge its error and also to verify its stubbornness or its pride for not having withdrawn it earlier. A stubbornness and a pride to continue with a project that is verified here today that has no support whatsoever. We have tried in this Parliament to send that message to the Councilwoman, we have done it by proposing a GNP, we are going to do it with a motion on account of this question, and I am aware that this must lead to an amendment as a whole. This is the case, and that's why I ask the chief physician when he's going to give up this law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u114	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Your time is up. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, chief of departments, good noon to all, and welcome firemen. Madam Counsellor, before I explain to you the reasons why we believe that your department must meet the demands of the professionals and their trade union representatives, I would like to say that our attitude, the attitude of the socialists, is positive; that we want a law on the prevention and extinction of fires and rescues, but we want it to be a consensual law, that it integrates and that it does not divide the agents. We want the law to have a long-term projection, to serve to improve a public service that we consider essential, and to do so we need the help of professionals, society and also the political sensitivities of this House. We came to this question after trying, by other means, to express our disagreements with this bill, which you sent to this House. Our disagreement with the project is such – I assure you – that we will certainly use all the tools available to us, including the amendment of the whole if necessary, to force them to reflect and reconsider their position on this project. That is why we are telling them to use their power to withdraw the project as they have done on other occasions, and not long ago, and not to go through the drinking that it is this House that returns the project to them. We urge you to reconsider both the procedure for drawing up the draft and the content of it. First of all, I will talk to you about what we consider to have been a failed procedure. In the various appearances, as has already been said, which were carried out by both the representatives of the fire-extinguishing services workers and the spokespersons of a citizen platform, there was a common denominator in all of them: all without exception were considered relegated, all thought that the appropriate channels had not been established in order to express their views and contributions to the above-mentioned bill. I am sure that you will answer that there are already the channels established to make the appropriate contributions, that there is already in the process of hearing or public information this possibility, and you will also tell me that not all the participants used that route. At this point, I would like to point out that those who made allegations also expressed in this House that those allegations had not been taken into account when drafting the text that was sent to Parliament. You may also reply that I am acting as a spokesperson for the trade union side, but in case I am going to make it clear to you right now: nothing further from reality. And I'll explain it to you. Because it was not the trade unions or the opposition parties that first amended the process adopted for the preparation of the draft; as was also mentioned in the previous intervention, on 29 April 2015, months before the draft was forwarded to this House, the Basque Economic and Social Council issued its opinion on it, and it stated in text: "We are first raised with a preliminary question concerning the procedure followed in the preparation of the preliminary draft law, given the absence of negotiations with the most representative trade union organizations on various provisions relating to the conditions of employment of the staff of the fire-prevention and rescue services contained in the preliminary draft". And later he continues to say this opinion: "... without the participation of these" – he is referring to trade union organizations – "in the process of the hearing or in the report of the Basque Economic and Social Council, or of the Basque Civil Service Council, it can make up for the obligation of collective bargaining that the legislation establishes and whose violation would vitiate of nullity of full right to the future law. It is for this reason that we ask the department to suspend the processing of the bill for the opening of negotiations and the incorporation of the agreements that, if necessary, are reached in it, and thus to give effect to the existing legislation." If this did not convince you at the time, Madam Counsellor, please be assured that our position is not based, much less, on a follow-up of trade union positions. We agree, yes, with them, and we agree with the ESC's opinion that you have chosen a wrong path, even failing to comply with existing legislation, as the ESC itself warns you, when drafting this bill. I will admit to you, however, Madam Counsellor, that you have faced an important and necessary challenge, such as the drafting of a specific law for the regulation of fire and rescue services, but with all due respect I must say that in assessing the work done you have obtained a resounding suspension. Currently, the deputies and the municipalities of the capitals of the three historical territories manage the seven extinction services existing in the autonomous community. If the Government took the initiative, it could provide an a priori assurance that the homogenization and standard regulation of the operation of the above-mentioned services would finally be addressed, but the result is indeed negative. On the one hand, you recognise the need for joint and orderly action by the different services, but on the other hand, you have the flexibility to apply the rule to the different administrations. Set a kind of à la carte menu for each service holder to choose what is best for you. They have also not taken the opportunity to clearly define the competences and functions of service professionals, both in the extinction of fires and in other emergency situations in which they have to participate. In the drafting of these functions the potential is used more than the imperative, and this is not good to make clear the functions that professionals must develop. To put an end to the content considerations, there is one aspect on which there is unanimous practice, such as the references made in the project to part-time firefighters and volunteer firefighters, which, together with the non-concretion of what can be the direct management that appears in the law, generate uncertainty about the assurance of the indisputably public character that firefighting and rescue services must have. If we also take into account that today, as the previous spokesman has also told you, several institutions are taking a stand on this matter, and it is very possible that by a majority they too are calling for the withdrawal of the draft, we believe that there are more than enough reasons to reconsider their position, to back off, and to negotiate with the agents involved the relevant aspects of this law. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u116	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Beltán de Heredia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. Good morning, dears de los bomberos de Euskadi. In the legislative calendar of the current legislature, the Government included a commitment to present to this Basque Parliament the draft law regulating the services of fire prevention and extinguishment and rescue, and that commitment had attached a premise: the agreement with the institutions that provide these services; the agreement, therefore, with the three outlaws and with the three capital municipalities of the historical territories, which are the institutions that manage this service. First, as Mr Arzuaga has already said, representatives of the Government met with institutional representatives of the three parliaments and also of the capitals, of the three municipalities of the historic territories, and agreed to set up a working group in which the seven institutions would participate. A working group to develop, discuss and agree on a regulatory text for the service they manage and offer. A legislative text which, once adopted by the Governing Council, was also discussed in this House to reach consensus on its adoption. The working group began its work – worth redundancy – on 21 January 2014, and as a working method agreed to hold monthly face-to-face meetings, in addition to the exchanges they held through a sharepoint created for this purpose. Therefore, participation from the first moment. Each institution appointed its representatives, the ones they considered. On the one hand, the Álava Provincial Council appointed the Director of Local Administration, the head of the Álava Fire Department, the head of Minones and Civil Protection as representatives. On behalf of the Bizkaia District Council were the Deputy Director General of Fire and the Deputy Director General of Public Service. They represented the Gipuzkoa Provincial Council the Chief of Fires at that time, and an emergency technique. On behalf of the Department of Safety and Security, the Director of Emergency and Meteorology, the Director of Legal Services, the Chief of Planning of the Directorate of Emergency and Meteorology, and a legal counsel participated. The Bilbao City Hall was represented by the Director of Human Resources and also by the Deputy Director of Civil Protection and Fire Departments. On the other hand, regarding the Town Hall of Donostia, he was represented by the fire officer. And for the City Hall of Gasteiz a lawyer from the Department of Citizen Security, the Director of Citizen Security and the Chief Firefighter. Therefore, a wide representation of technicians and people who know the service provided, who know it directly. After a whole year of work, this group finally drafted a draft bill and presented it to the institutional representatives of the three outlaws and also of the three municipalities. I remind you, as Mr Arzuaga has rightly said, that at the time these institutions were governed by political parties of different colour, of different sign: EH Bildu in the case of the Gipuzkoa and the Donostia City Council; the People's Party in the case of the Álava Foral City Council and the Vitoria-Gasteiz City Council; and the Basque Nationalist Party in the historical territory of Bizkaia, both in the Parliament and in the Bilbao City Council. As I have already pointed out at the beginning of my speech, the text agreed by this working group reached the main premise and the main objective: acceptance and commitment, acceptance and consensus of the entire institutional framework involved, of all the institutions that manage and offer the fire-extinguishing service. And so, with the approval of all the institutions concerned, it was decided to begin the processing of the agreed text for its subsequent presentation in this Parliament, so that you, ladies and gentlemen, could discuss it and, if necessary, approve it. In the process ahead, in fact, and before it was approved by the Governing Council, the preliminary draft complied with all the procedures that are mandatory, reports, consultations, allegations, and indeed the final text varied in some respects with respect to the first draft. During the period of public presentation and submission of allegations, some trade unions also made written proposals. Some of these proposals were admitted and others were not, in fact, accepted, but in all cases the reasons for acceptance or rejection were made available and incorporated into the file. And in the final phase of the processing some unions, and also the Economic and Social Council, which endorsed the allegations of the Workers' Commissions, raised the requirement to negotiate the preliminary draft with the representation of the workers. A demand that is now so worrying and conditioning you, representatives of EH Bildu and representatives of the Socialist Party. The trade unions raised their claim in a tax-free manner, as an imperative of legality. You now raise this issue with the requirement that we withdraw the draft law from the prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services, by bypassing the parliamentary procedure; the parliamentary procedure to discuss it, to improve it as it sees fit, and to try to reach a draft consensus law, which updates and regulates this service. When the trade unions submitted the requirement to negotiate the preliminary draft, the Department of Safety and Security asked the Advisory Legal Commission to explicitly examine in its opinion whether the draft was appropriate and whether it was legally feasible to submit the preliminary draft to a negotiating table with the representation of workers, bearing in mind that these workers had no connection with the Government. The opinion of the Legal Advisory Commission concluded quite clearly that there was no legal possibility at present for the preliminary draft to be negotiated at a negotiating table at which the Basque Government, as the holder of the legislative initiative, and the representatives of the workers, who, as you well know and have said a moment ago, have no working relationship with the Government and, of course, not with the Department of Safety. Well, in view of this legal impossibility dictated by the Legal Advisory Commission, processing was completed, and the proposal was raised to the Governing Council. I remind you that the Governing Council approved the bill on 28 July 2015. In September, Parliament was referred to this Parliament for consideration, discussion, improvement or, if you think so, agreement on its withdrawal, agreement on the presentation of that amendment in its entirety, either with the submission of an alternative text, or by marking the withdrawal of this bill. What has just made no sense, and I do not understand it, is that we are debating here today whether or not to withdraw it, without you having proceeded to that debate as it would have been, meeting all the requirements that apply in these proceedings. But also, if we look at the public union demonstrations and those that were expressed in detail on your day at the Basque Civil Service Council, and at the demands you have made today, it is that there are aspects that are not even subject matter that correspond to the scope of negotiation of workers' representation. In fact, most of the content of the project is not only not formally negotiable at a negotiating table, but it is also not negotiable, because these are aspects relating to the competitive distribution and adapted to the public service model. Suggestions and proposals can be accepted in this area, but, of course, it can never be subject to exorbitant and excessive negotiation on issues that cannot be agreed upon with labour negotiation measures. For example, it does not fall within the scope of trade union negotiations to determine whether emergency health care is the responsibility of the service or of Osakidetza, or whether the water rescue or mountain rescue is carried out by the Ertzaintza or is to be attributed exclusively to firefighters. Neither these issues, nor the organisation of parks, nor their location, nor anything that affects the requirement that certain companies, depending on the risk they have or foresee, have their own fire services, none of these issues, as I have said, can be the subject of trade union negotiations of a labour nature. Let me therefore make one thing clear: if the draft law were to be redrafted, the impossibility of forming a negotiating table in its own sense would persist. It would continue on the same terms as the consultation with the Legal Advisory Commission. But it would also not be appropriate to make a trade union agreement conditional on aspects that exceed its scope, for the same reason that, for example, the municipal law is the result of negotiation between parliamentary groups but is not the result of the agreement..., and even less so of the municipal trade union agreement. And you are raising this issue in these terms. I insist, the unions had an opportunity to move their suggestions and to move their proposals throughout the drafting process of the preliminary draft. And precisely – and I want to stress this – those unions that did not contribute, that did not claim anything at all during the stage of the allegations, are today the ones that are making the banner of the demands that you, representatives of EH Bildu and representatives of the Socialist Party, bring here today and raise with this inquiry. We really don't see any fundamental criteria in order to withdraw the bill. There is no essential reason to cancel the bill. It's a project designed and agreed with the membership of all the organizations who handle the firemen's services, which has at first approved the opinion of the technicians. The unions had a chance to contribute to the bill. Some of them did, and those which were acceptable were admitted, and were given instructions concerning those who did not receive them. In accordance with the project, he had the approval of the Government committee, and from September last year the bill is here, in this legislature, awaiting the discussion of the political parties. Consider, then, whether the bill of the law be worthy of its laws, and whether it be so or not, make the necessary contributions. We think we can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u118	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u119	Yes, thank you, and good noon again. Almost concentrated, ma'am. You're telling us this discussion isn't right, no Procede, but I think it's important, because here for the first time it's clear that we'll use all the tools we have against this law, and that's the frame. And I think you should get on that stage. I'll try to explain the elements of this stage again. I'll divide my practice into two sections. In fact, you're saying that the union involvement has been enough, and you also say that the cooperation of the organizations has been adequate and sufficient, right? Looking at the first section, looking at the participation of the unions, I think that the open is becoming a cheap excuse to get rid of the rest of the discussions. It gives me the impression that Irekia is becoming more and more like a "Speak in Irekia or keep quiet forever", and instead of being a space or a channel of participation, a channel of cross-examination, it is becoming an excuse to deny other spaces of debate that are more effective and in which more commitment can be incorporated by the parties, or by those who must negotiate, or those who must reach agreements. It is true that some unions incorporated allegations, submitted allegations, presented them in this channel, and we asked them in committee why they did so, and they told us that it was because they wanted to give content to their position. But others who did not say that it was because perhaps the marginalization to which they were being subjected was misinterpreted, with an attitude of participation, that they have it, that it is real, that it is seen, but that they do not want to develop it by way of argument, but that they want to develop it in an area in which real negotiations can really take place. It gives us another apology, which is that there is no negotiating table, and also there it clings to Cojua's decisions, saying that there is a strict impossibility of creating a similar table, but I will likewise cling to the mandatory opinion presented by the ESC, which warns of the nullity of the future law if there is no discussion in these areas, if there is no such area to be discussed. I believe that this table can be created, and I say again that invoking the absence of a negotiating table that can be created is only part of an excuse. We believe that you, in a certain way, confuse making allegations with irrational adherence or with uncritical and unconditional adherence; confuse participating with submission to your postulates; confuse arguing with consensus. I am referring here to how the institutions responsible for SPEIS have participated in the creation of this text, which has now been brought here for debate. Perhaps there were also allegations in this area, opinions were incorporated by some of these institutions, but you yourself tell me: "It was later in the final text". Were those allegations there too? Which ones are picked up? Which ones aren't? Is the text signed by all the institutions that have participated in its formulation? I have not seen that EH Bildu is signing that text, and you yourself acknowledge that it varied in the final text that is incorporated into this Parliament. I will tell you when it is brought, and it is precisely when all these institutions have the same political colour. It is when you consider that the institutions already support this text, and, as you absolutely do not need anyone else (either the trade union side, nor the citizenry, nor the workers, nor the professionals, nor the technicians, nor the parliamentary groups, nor the political parties of the opposition), you bring this law, further claiming that, in a certain way, this contribution that has been made becomes an acritic submission to the text that you incorporate into us. We put what our position is, we go to the amendment to the whole, and today I see that you are engaged, or to withdraw this law now, or to withdraw it...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u120	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u121	Thanks again. Look, counselor, in one thing we agree with you and me: the need for a law for SPEIS. That's what we agreed on. But I hope that we also agree that a law with the blunt and frontal rejection of all the professionals who are going to have to carry out the works of fire-extinguishing and rescue is engaged, without further glances, to the most absolute failure. What we are telling you is, therefore, to negotiate beforehand for the continuation of the parliamentary process of the debate on this law. Look, you have told us what cannot be negotiated at a collective bargaining table; therefore, you are implicitly telling us that there are things that could have been negotiated at an ad hoc negotiating table. Because I do not need to say – I already anticipated it, and that is why I told you in the first intervention – that there was a period in which allegations could be made in the drafting procedure. But making allegations is not negotiating. To negotiate is to sit at a table, at an ad hoc table with representatives of the fire-extinguishing services, and to negotiate aspects that are negotiable. And you haven't done that, you haven't done that. And that's why it's the frontal confrontation that the workers have, the entire representatives of the firefighters' workers with respect to this law. You have not complied with something which, as the ESC says, requires legislation: to open a collective bargaining table for matters relating to the labour aspects of workers. Well, aside... That I think it would be convenient, because the professionals, the workers' representatives are the ones who know best what the implications they should have in carrying out their duties, and also, even if it was not a matter of negotiation, it could be a matter for you to listen and have more elements of judgment in incorporating it into the law. But they didn't want to. Well, you sent out the ESC report saying that the ESC took over the allegations or the position of the Workers' Committees. I would like to remind you, Madam Counsellor, that in the ESC, apart from the trade unions that are, there are the business confederations, they are representatives of all the economic and social spheres of the country, and there are also representatives who are experts in the fields covered by the ESC. That whole, that whole which is made up of the ESC, is what you have been told, that you have been warned that this bill was wrongly drafted, that a wrong path had been chosen for the elaboration of this. Look, counselor, your department has an extreme ability to create conflicts in those aspects that roam with the workers. The conflict you have with the Ertzaintza I believe is on its way to becoming structural. And you have been able to unite all the unions of fire-extinguishing services (all the unions, with different ideologies, with different strategies, with different tactics, with all the unions), which is not usually in this country, unfortunately, very easy to see them united, you have managed to unite them, all the fire-fighting unions. That's his great skill, but I believe, sincerely, and I say it to you with all due respect, I think it's a pretty negative skill. Reconvert, reflect, and, I insist, do not go through the misconception that this House will return this bill to you. Remove it, negotiate, open that collective bargaining table, incorporate the contributions that can be made not only from the unions, but from other social bodies, and improve a bill that, I insist – and with this end – I insist, is very necessary for this Autonomous Community. But there is a need for a consensual bill, a bill that aims to have a long-term, not a bill that stays in the water of drunkards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u122	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u123	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Good. EH Bildu. Mr Arzuaga, to pretend that the amendment of the text has gone according to the change of political colour, that is to say a falsehood, and you know it. The text has been amended in the light of the allegations that have been made and the reports that have been submitted, in no case in the light of the change in the political colour of the municipalities or parliaments. Therefore, I believe that is the first thing to be clarified. I listened to the Lord (does not attend to me...), to Mr Unzalu that we have to talk to the people who perform the services and who are the ones who know best. Indeed, you are saying that the technicians responsible for the management of the service do not know, are totally unable to give their opinion, to think, to make proposals, and to make a text that properly regulates the services they in their institutions have to manage. Well, in any case, I insist, the unions had the opportunity to move their proposals to the drafting process of the preliminary draft, and it precisely draws the attention that those unions that did not bring anything at that stage, because, well, today they are making banners of certain claims. And the bulk of the union response mainly focuses on two absolutely unfounded issues, namely the precariousness and privatization of the service. It is false, absolutely false, that the bill seeks the privatization of this public service. This approach lacks any hint of connection with reality, with the reality of what this draft law on prevention, fire-extinguishing and rescue services proposes. Moreover, in view of the incomprehensible repetition of the arguments put forward by the trade unions, the text adopted by the Governing Council and which has been referred to this House included two precepts prohibiting any administration from claiming to outsource or privatize the service. The text of the bill contains an explicit reservation to direct management by public administrations, in addition to the requirement that the service should always be provided by public officials. Such an explicit forecast of the imperative public nature of the provision of a service does not even exist in the police services. Converted this argument, that of precariousness and privatization, into a straw argument, the rest of the union appreciations refer to aspects very collateral to the very essence of the project and the service that it regulates. I am referring to aspects such as the regulation or not of part-time firefighters, a figure that arose from the Álava Foral Diputación and that is always limited to the scope of certain rural areas, with very special conditions; or the regulation of volunteer firefighters, an increasingly residual figure... However, in any case, if these are contentious aspects which you consider should be dealt with and modified in response to trade union organisations or in response to the proposals and positions of the political parties themselves, in the parliamentary process I understand that you should not have any greater difficulty in reaching agreements which satisfy all the parliamentary groups and also the dissenting trade unions themselves. To let go of this opportunity to carry the parliamentary debate to the end and withdraw the bill to submit it to a hypothetical trade union negotiation I believe, sincerely, that it would lead us to miss a great opportunity, an opportunity that has been worked out with the work of many people, of many technicians, for a long time. I believe that it would also be imprudent, because neither the unions nor their representatives would gain anything that they could not achieve now with their approval, and, instead, de facto would lose the great opportunity to have a law regulating services, a law that enshrines the public character of the service, a law that guarantees standardized training for the entire staff, a law that incorporates a number of legally and long-claimed functional rights, and that, above all, would postpone in time the possibility of reclassification to group C1 of the officials of the fire services, this a rather historical claim, which they would be allowing in the long run. And probably with the risk that it would again take too much time, too much time, to have another opportunity similar to this, a sufficiently consensual opportunity between all the public administrations involved. The fire services of the different administrations are very different, it is true, and having agreed a text, a common minimum regulator among all has cost a great effort and has been a great achievement for each of the institutions involved. Missing this opportunity should not satisfy anyone, let alone those who have so many times publicly claimed the need for a fire law. It would be pointless to pass up this opportunity, especially when there are no real reasons to prevent consensus from being reached, as a result of parliamentary procedure, on a text that perfectly satisfies all trade union representatives. Moreover, having listened to their demands, we are fully convinced that they can be met to a large extent, as I said, through parliamentary procedure. The government – ahead of them – will not withdraw the draft law on fire-extinguishing and rescue. I repeat, the trade union negotiation that is claimed contains a double difficulty. On the one hand, the existing negotiating tables would not be worth it, nor could an ad hoc table be set up, because there was no working relationship between the personnel providing the service and the Government that was carrying the law. On the other hand, informal meetings held for the purpose of negotiation could refer only to subjects subject to negotiation, and not to many others that are being raised. If you, ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party of Euskadi and EH Bildu, want to reject this draft and that it be returned to the government for negotiation, the very thing is that you approve an amendment to the whole, that you approve an amendment to the whole with an alternative text, as I said before, that you approve an amendment to the whole by agreeing to the withdrawal of the draft. The position of the Basque Government in the drafting and processing of this bill has been to maintain an exquisite neutrality, adopting the role of mediator among the various institutions involved; a position based on full respect for the outside competences and the municipal competences of the institutions involved, because direct management of the service, and not of the Government, depends on these institutions. Therefore, I invite you to analyze and discuss, to amend this draft law regulating the fire prevention and fire-fighting and rescue services that have been in your hands since September. You have the opportunity to make any improvements you deem appropriate and to ratify the consensus reached between the institutions that manage the service. We're not ready to undo the path we made. The technicians made a great deal of trouble to agree on the bill of legislation, between the prevention of the fires and the organizations by which the fire offers the discharge services, and that's what's in your hands. In the bill of prevention and shadow of fire and rescue services, it is in your power to determine improvements, to discuss and agree, and, if you think so, to consider the demands of unions as well. We see no reason to suspend the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u124	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "Ask me, Igor lópez de Mugain Ganguza EH Collectors to the head of Security, in order to remember the victims of March 3. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u125	I look like I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u126	To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u127	Mr. President, thank you, Congressman, good morning again. First of all, I'd like to confirm the solidarity of the Government in its day with the victims of March 3, on their 40th anniversary. And as for your question, Mr. lópez de Munin, I've really seen people rushing in on your subject with too much haste and too many prejudices, as if they had shown Boesa at Arenan at once to be fined. But these things have their projection. When the law follows and obeys, what do they say when the banners appear in the sports stations, what message they take, and what figures or symbols they display, and care about, when those who care to keep the law collapse, it is customary for them to identify the bearers and receive the bearers? That's what they did, and so they did on March 6th. I mean, they picked up the acta with an identification that had nothing to do with the basketball game. In order to execute the fine, the administration has its own means, and this also will make its course, considering what the banners say and what it might produce, and of course well-contextised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u128	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u129	Before I begin I would like to greet and give public support to both Danel and Aitor, the two fans of Indar Baskonia who have been sanctioned on the basis of the application of that law..., or who can be punished by the application of that absolutely retrograde law. As you will know, counselor, the Anti-Violence in Sport Act is absolutely restrictive in all rights, and imposes quite clear conditions of compliance. You do a reading of it about what you can do and what you don't, and you will apply it at the time, but you forget to look at the obligations of the clubs. The club systematically fails to comply by not having a qualified security director, as indicated by the same law. But that is already being done: the one who is directly failing to comply with that law is the club, today. As I said, it is the Ministry of the Interior that has to empower the security officer, and the security officer does not comply, so, when you excuse me that everything has to follow some procedures according to that law, when that law is not being complied with and the law is absolutely restrictive with one another but absolutely lax with the other, it is not valid as an explanation. Your excuse for complying with that law is not the answer we accept, as it is clear that you only comply with one another and not with another. We want a political response, which is what you were asked about in the initiative. If you do not want banners in sport, we do not want excuses in Parliament either. The case is different, and we asked him a very specific question about how appropriate it is to fine people for showing a banner, the same week that the Basque institutions and this Parliament approved different institutional motions that shared the same motto. On March 3 and what it represents in Gasteiz and Araba for the working class surpasses the political. We carry it in our DNA. We are proud and proud of the struggle of those workers who were killed by the police, and we will remember and honor them forever. Let us remember that the pavilion is a public enclosure, not to be forgotten, a public enclosure; surrendered to a private club, but the space remains public, and in that space it is where amateurs paid their particular tribute to the victims of March 3. That same day the top political authorities of Gasteiz and Araba and the same lehendakari were on the pavilion stage, as you know, politicians who had participated a few days before in the acts of tribute to the victims. Consistency, we demand coherence from this government as well. It is hypocritical to pay tribute in institutions and microphones, and not to allow it in other public spaces. The victims of March 3 are beginning to be recognized because people have kept their memory alive on the street. They cannot be denied their right as victims to public recognition, and if you collaborate with those who do not want to recognize these victims as the rest of the victims and want to make them invisible, you will be equally responsible. The decision is political, not legal, it is absolutely political, and it also depends on your department whether you are curing or not. You have in your hands that the people who can be punished are not finally. Be consistent for once, and do not hide in pseudofascist laws to punish your own people. Mark Three, Memory, Truth and Justice. [[He put a sign on the lobby.]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u130	Thank you... Please, Igor, please withdraw. Retired, please, your time... Please retire! I know you like to bring things back, but retire when you're through! Retreat. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u131	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. All coherence, all coherence, and that same coherence I demand from you. Shield us and hide us, for nothing. The work of professionals and professionals monitoring compliance with the law in the conduct of sports hobbies is designed to avoid attitudes or actions that may directly or indirectly incite violence, xenophobia, racism and intolerance. Therefore, in compliance with what is established by law, it is necessary to analyze those messages and those images or symbols that contain the banners that are displayed in sports venues, and the analysis of the context – I told you before too – in which they are displayed and the circumstances that run. This procedure of analysis and identification of those who wear these banners is mandatory in all sporting events, provided that the message of the banners or symbols that are displayed allude to extra-sports topics and are completely alien to the sporting event that is taking place. In this case, in relation to the banner displayed on 6 March in the Buesa Arena pavilion, this was also the case. This does not mean that the sanction proposed by the State Commission against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport, because it is a banner totally alien to the sporting event itself, will end in punishment. It doesn't mean that. This assessment and this final decision is the responsibility of the Basque Government, and, of course, in the light of the facts, it is clear that, even though it is a banner totally alien to the sporting event, the motto it was carrying and the circumstances in which it was displayed do not give rise to any interpretation that there would be any incitement to violent and intolerant attitudes. Therefore, you have put the bandage on before the wound. Therefore, the bandage has been put on before the wound. And I take this opportunity to reiterate once again our solidarity with the victims of 3 March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u132	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The 18th theme in the subject list: "Appeal, a member of the Medical Department of the Medical Department, Blanca Roncal Azanza, a member of the Medical Department, in order to detect the complications that might occur in pregnancy connected with the infection of Zika virus. " Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u133	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief officers, good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen, the interest that moves us to bring this inquiry here today is that we consider the Zika virus-borne disease to be emerging, very important. It is true that at this time there is a small overall affectation, in one in four infected, but, however, the alarm comes from the affectation that makes pregnant women and their children, causing a possible association (today considered possible), microcephaly and other malformations of the central nervous system. However, it seems that this possible association has already been confirmed by research that indicates that the virus affects the stem cells of the cortical cells of the brain, preventing their development and formation. Therefore, the first risk group is pregnant women and those who intend to become pregnant and wish to travel or travel to countries where the Zika virus is endemic. And, therefore, as we say, the measures are very necessary, since the transmission mechanisms go further. And why are they going to more? Because fundamentally the mechanism of transmission today is a vector, the tiger mosquito, technically called Aedes albopictus, which, although the counselor in recent parliamentary response says that there is no such thing as Euskadi, there is information that contradicts it, in the sense that the mosquito has already been located in traps presented in Irun, right next to the Bar Faisán. Therefore, the mosquito exists in Euskadi. The mosquito is spreading, because it is not in vain part of one of the one hundred most invasive species in the world. This expansion, of course, is favoured by the large number of travellers travelling around the world, as well as by the goods. And besides, once settled in a population, it really breeds and develops with great ease, by small containers that there is water, and also with drying. Therefore, a spread of this tiger mosquito is already expected throughout Europe. There are already all the countries in southern Europe affected, in Spain the whole Mediterranean area is also affected, and the whole Iberian peninsula is expected to be in a few years. Therefore, we must pay attention to the experts, who tell us that the mosquito is going to spread, and that this is the greatest mechanism of transmission of the Zika virus. You, Mr. Counsellor, tell us that there is no high risk to public health, and I believe you, in Euskadi. But, of course, I hope that the measures will also be put in place before this risk goes too far and we can talk about high risk. You have pointed out a number of actions, such as epidemiological surveillance, early detection of cases that come from outside, study congenital malformations, and then take actions aimed at the highest risk group, as we have said, that it is pregnant women or those who want to become pregnant, in order to advise them not to travel to countries with endemic infection, and also to monitor the pregnancy of these people who have travelled well to those countries or are trying to travel. But it is also necessary to protect against stings, and in this regard it is necessary to advise all travellers, not only pregnant women, but also men. Because we have already seen that, although the mechanism of person-to-person transmission is smaller today, there have also been cases of person-to-person transmission. Not in vain has the virus been found in various bodily fluids, such as blood, tears, semen, breast milk, etc. Therefore, they are vehicles of transmission of the virus. In Europe these mosquitoes have become urban. Although their first habitat is much more that of the jungle, in Europe they are already urban and are generating changes in behavior to prevent the bites of these mosquitoes, which are really more serious than those of other common mosquitoes. The tiger mosquito has a very long trunk, perfectly crosses the skin, and causes very painful bites. In fact, that is why we would like to know what kind of reports and proposals you have made to the health centers, to the services of gynecology and obstetrics, as well as to the specialists gynecologists and neurologists, since there is also neurological impairment and there is involvement of neurologists to participate in this control and knowledge of the disease. Also, although we did not put it in the interpellation, I hope you will tell us general measures to combat the transmission of the virus, such as the fight against the vector. We would like to know whether it has already spread, whether the vector has advanced from Irun to other areas of Euskadi, and whether there has been any kind of coordination with other departments of the Basque Government to combat this vector. These are the things we wanted to put to you in this inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Roncal anderea, as we have already stated on several occasions from the Department of Health of the Basque Government, the alert situation determined by the World Health Organization on Zika virus disease, as an emerging disease, does not in the case of Euskadi constitute a serious public health emergency in our environment. From the Department of Health of the Basque Government we have sent a message of calm to society, without showing that there will actually be cases in Euskadi. However, our message is aligned with the messages launched by most European health authorities. The health department has asked society for relief, a peace message has spread. This message does not go against the criteria given by the Health World Organization. As already stated in the reply sent to Parliament last February, mechanisms have been put in place by the Department of Health to detect, diagnose and monitor suspected cases of this virus in the Basque health network, as well as its vectors, which in our case is carried out through the Neiker company. In Euskadi today there is no high risk to public health, since the vector transmitter of the disease, which is Aedes aegypti, has not been detected in Euskadi at the moment, although, as you have rightly pointed out, the tiger mosquito could also transmit it. The risk at this time continues to be limited to imported cases, of infected persons from affected countries or travellers with a background of stay in them. And that's what scientists have determined. Always bearing in mind that Zika is a viral disease, not serious, except, as you have pointed out, for the group of pregnant women, where, as far as my knowledge comes, the risk of malformations in the fetus is being studied. One of the most important measures taken has been the setting up of an advisory council on emerging infectious diseases in Euskadi. They have defined a reference laboratory for their diagnosis, in particular the OSI Donostialdea laboratory, and have also developed and deployed a protocol of technical recommendations called "procedure for action in cases suspected of Zika disease in the Basque Autonomous Community", which also includes the gynec-obstetric part, with the fundamental objective of early detection of possible cases and to ensure the proper management of them, as well as establishing the necessary prevention and control measures at all times. The given recommendations have been deployed all over the health network at euskal. Those that have been deployed are the complement of the one sent in February. In the specific case of pregnant women who were interested in the interpellation, a series of recommendations have been established in this procedure to determine which pregnant women should be required for Zika virus testing, the type of testing to be requested and the corresponding interpretation thereof, as well as the subsequent follow-up of patients and, where appropriate, newborns. At the time of determining which women to carry out the screening tests, a number of assumptions are made on the basis of clinical and epidemiological criteria, and therefore it has been established to request laboratory tests from pregnant women with symptoms suggestive of the disease who in the previous fifteen days have been in epidemic areas of Zika virus; second group, asymptomatic pregnant women but who during their pregnancy have remained in epidemic areas for the Zika virus; and third group, pregnant women who have had unprotected sex with men who have travelled to epidemic areas for the virus. As to the type of diagnostic tests to be requested, these are determined on the basis of the weeks since the return of the journey to the risk zones and the clinical and epidemiological criteria, which means that, depending on each case, viral CRP or serology will be requested. When interpreting laboratory results, they have determined that the presence of a positive PCR is indicative of acute infection, and in the case of serology depends on the presence of positive antibodies in serum, depending on the type of antibodies and the titration of them, to indicate acute or past infection. However, the possibility of cross-reactions with other viruses, such as dengue fever or yellow fever, requires confirmation by means of a neutralization technique that is performed in the Majadahonda laboratory, as set out in the protocol. As for the management of the cases of pregnant women, according to the results obtained from laboratory tests, it is classified as confirmed cases or probable cases those pregnant women with or without symptoms of disease, with positive PCR or serology and subsequently a neutralization technique performed, which in case of being positive are derived to the foetal medicine units of the corresponding reference hospitals, one per territory, for echographic follow-up every two to four weeks. On the other hand, pregnant women with negative CRP and serology are classified as unconfirmed cases. In these cases, routine pregnancy monitoring is also recommended, which includes ultrasounds based on your protocol. The percentage of maternal-foetal transmission is currently unknown, as well as the risk of developing abnormalities in foetuses infected with Zika virus. The association between gestational age of infection and foetal involvement is also not clearly determined, although the reported cases of foetuses suggest exposure in the first or second trimester. The full spectrum of abnormalities associated with this infection is also unknown, although, as you have pointed out, between the fetal and placental abnormalities described there are central nervous system abnormalities, eye abnormalities, delayed uterine growth, changes in fetal movements and arthrogriposis or placental malformations. The realization of amniocentesis, as shown in the protocol, is controversial, and at this time its sensitivity and specificity for the detection of the virus is unknown; therefore, the use of this test has been realized in individualizing it in each case, informing the mother about the limitations of it. The protocol that's been done today, among other things, receives recommendations addressed to women who, being pregnant, go to the countries of the virus. Women who are pregnant are advised not to go to places where the epidemic strikes. If the pregnant woman decides to travel to epidemiological areas at risk, as you have also pointed out, she will be informed that she must take appropriate individual protective measures to avoid mosquito bites, and to this day, it is recommended that these measures be applied throughout the day, given the mosquito activity itself. Among the measures defined are the use of skin repellent products; also the use of long and clear clothing, covering most of the body; not using perfumes or perfumed creams, as they attract mosquitoes; the use of mosquito nets both day and night, and, if possible, the stay in air-conditioned rooms. Travellers with symptoms consistent with Zika virus disease, regardless of gender, should receive medical attention within 15 days of the return of an affected area and notify the healthcare professional of their previous stay in those countries. In the case of men who return from an epidemic zone and have no symptoms, prevention measures to prevent sexual transmission for twenty-eight days will be recommended, and if they have had symptoms, the prevention period will be extended to six months. The Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality has so far confirmed Zika virus infection in forty-three patients in different autonomous communities, including from this very week Euskadi with the declaration of a case in a male, which has also allowed us to check the operation of the protocol. What neither the Ministry nor WHO have said at the moment is that none of the forty-three people have been infected in Euskadi or Spain, and they are all imported cases. We understand that what is appropriate is to maintain the scientific commission, to maintain the validity of its councils, to transfer to the population a message of tranquility, and that we will continue to monitor, both the cases and the mosquito, from Public Health and from Neiker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u136	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u137	Thank you, Counselor. We have already accepted that we do not actually have a high risk to public health, but we also did not have a high risk at first, when the H5N1 virus began to arrive, which brought it into a whirlpool that then never knew what was of it, but then became widespread. In 2004 the Velutin wasp arrived, which has actually become widespread and today we believe that we will not be able to put an end to it. Later we also had a case similar to the zebra mussel, which we also did not manage to eliminate from our rivers and reservoirs. It has also occurred to us with bedbug epidemics, and now there are also epidemics of these fevers which were once tropical and exotic but which are becoming widespread throughout Europe. We must therefore be concerned and prevent the massive arrival of the mosquito, which we have already said is coming. We have the mosquito, the Aedes albopictus, which actually also transmits. Not just the Aegypti, so is this. Both are varieties of the tiger mosquito, and both are responsible for the transmission of the Zika virus. What I know is that all experts say emerging pathologies are one of the most serious threats to public health, and therefore we must prepare to avoid being in this situation of gravity. And what I'm telling you is that you have to take the recommendations that are actually pointed out by the technical committees, but that say that one of the first is to know the disease, to investigate, to fight against the vector, to investigate whether vaccines can be prepared, to advise the population, to support pregnant women. Some of these you have already pointed out, like the protocol, but it really seems to me that there are some left in the tinker, as it is to participate in the global network of alerts, to ask citizens to participate against vectors, what is the formula of participation... Not only to let experts or a company do a fight against the spread of mosquitoes, because it is human behaviors that allow the spread and, of course, the fact that mosquitoes progeny. Therefore, we ask you to move from a reactive attitude to a preventive attitude. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u139	Well, Mrs. Roncal, I think we're in a preemptive and attentive attitude. We are well aware that emerging infectious diseases, in a globalized world, will reach us more and more. This has essentially been the reason, for the first time in the thirty-three years of Osakidetza's history, for having constituted permanently, as an advisory body of the Department of Health, a council of emerging infectious diseases that includes epidemiologists, microbiologists, specialists in infectious diseases and, depending on the complications of the emerging disease, incorporates other specialists, in the current case gynaecologists. On the other hand, as you know, because the Health and Consumer Committee was invited to visit it, we have prepared a high biological safety unit at Donostia Hospital, which will not only serve Euskadi, but, as you know, is considered from the interterritorial council to serve Cantabria, Navarre and also La Rioja. Therefore, in this case not inactive: we have been very preventive. But, look, this I think is not the subject of an opinion by a counselor or a parliamentarian. Public health experts in Euskadi, who must be left to work today, see no reason but to be alert, but not to be alarmed in our midst. With regard to the presence of vectors competent for the transmission of the virus, monitoring of possible vectors of emerging infectious diseases has been carried out since 2008 in order to identify their presence in any possible form. And I'm not an expert on mosquitoes, but preparing for their interpellation I've been told they're watching eggs, larvae and adult insects. This surveillance is also part of the state vector surveillance plan, which in turn is connected to the European surveillance plan, as you very wisely asked me a minute ago. In Euskadi the identifications of insects, in any form, are carried out by Neiker, the Basque Institute for Research and Technological Development, which is also in collaboration with the University of Zaragoza, and I really do not know what the expertise of the University of Zaragoza is, but it must be. In Euskadi the insect that is watched, as you have said, is the Aedes albopictus, which has been known for a decade that, coming from the countries of the Middle East, has now invaded the Mediterranean basin and is established in Catalonia, the Community of Valencia, the Community of Murcia and Andalusia. This mosquito can be vector and also transmit other tropical diseases, such as West Nile, Chikungunya or Dengue, as well as Zika. As it has been invading other regions of the interior (also in France), the possibility of these mosquitoes in Spain increases, taking into account that the mosquito is transported by land, mainly by trucks. Monitoring in Aragon and in Euskadi has been strengthened since 2014. In both communities non-viable larvae have been detected for the time being, and it is considered that this mosquito is currently not established either in Euskadi or Aragon, and therefore for the time being in Irun non-viable larvae. The data collected in the report of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality that is hanging from its website reflect areas where the possible mosquito transmitter is established, which means that in these areas the mosquito completes all the phases of its life and can therefore be reproduced, but this has not happened at present in Irun or in Euskadi. Detection has been in unsustainable larval forms, without further identification of adult forms; therefore, surveillance officials and experts maintain that they have been transported to Euskadi or Aragon but have not been able to establish themselves. I mean, at the moment they can't perpetuate themselves in this geographical area and consolidate their reproduction, which I'm sure I'll celebrate with you. However, in Euskadi there are plans to strengthen surveillance and systemic sampling activities, and in particular we have already made a plan to predict with Neiker in the summer season, which is when we believe there may be more risk. I hope that these explanations, which have also allowed me to read about the mosquito, will convey that we will keep the alert. We are sure that more cases will come to us, and we believe, by the mouth of the experts, that they will be imported, but the message has to be reliable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u140	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Your time is up. The nineteenth point on the subject list: The question was that Laura Garrido Körr, a member of the Basque Group, was sent to the head physician of the Medical Department, an ambulance sent out of the window on January 25, 2016. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u141	Gracias, señora presidenta. Good morning again, all of you. On January 25, the tragic event took place in the city of Vitoria-Gasteiz where a girl was thrown out of the window, was initially seriously injured, and later died. And in this event two other adult people were also injured. The Health Adviser, in relation to the times of receipt of the notice, the ambulance shipment and the arrival of the ambulance with the girl to the hospital, has given some time, but we have to say that, according to the information collected, information also published that has not been denied, these times do not coincide with a report of the Ertzaintza itself or with the registration data in the Emergency Service itself of the Santiago Hospital. We see a contradiction between these data, which the adviser has provided in a response to an information in Parliament, and also the data from the Ertzaintza report and the entry register of the Emergency Service of Santiago Hospital. According to data from the Department of Health, the receipt of the notice took place at 03:42:39, the ambulance exit at 03:44:56, and six minutes and fifty-two seconds later from the receipt of the notice is when the ambulance arrives at the site of the occurrence. According to the Ertzaintza report, the arrival of the first ambulance occurs at 04:00. Regarding the arrival of the girl at the hospital, according to the Department of Health in the reply given to this Parliament, the arrival of the girl at the Santiago Emergency Service occurs at 04:01 hours, and, according to the entry register of the Santiago Hospital, the registration of the girl takes place at 04:11 hours. There is a clear discrepancy between the data given by you to this Parliament and the data in a report by the Ertzaintza and those of the hospital register itself, and we therefore want to know what assessment you deserve of this discrepancy which, according to the information we know, seems to exist. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u142	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Lady Garrido, to begin with, I'd like to repeat my solidarity and fun again on January 25th for the family of the murdered daughter of Gaste. On the other hand, I am inclined to disapprove with the greatest force of this attitude of violence, and of all others, especially of that great evil of the strength of the genus which we have in our society, and of violence against the minors. First of all, I wish to express once again my solidarity and that of the Government with the family of the girl murdered in Gasteiz on 25 January. I would also like to condemn in the strongest possible manner this and any other violent conduct, especially gender-based violence and violence against minors as well. Secondly, I would like to ratify again in this House the information sent in this regard in the form of a reply to a written question raised on 8 January and confirm to you that a denial was also sent to the media that you said. I will give you the times with minutes, seconds and tenths of a second, because they have an automatic collection in Osakidetza's emergency information systems. On January 25th, an event announcement was received at 03:42:39 a.m. in Osakidetza emergencies. It was decided to send a medical ambulance at 3:42:51. The medicalized ambulance, which left its base at Txagorritxu headquarters at 03:44:56, arrived at the site of the event at 03:49:31. From the time the notice was received until its arrival at the site of the event, it took six minutes and fifty-two seconds. At 04:01:50 the ambulance with the girl arrived at the headquarters of Santiago del HUA, which is the headquarters that houses the neurosurgery service. I want to thank and value the work of the professionals, both from Osakidetza and Ertzaintza, as well as the health transport network, who took part in this complex, unusual and highly emotional action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u144	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u145	Indeed, Mr. Counsellor, they were tragic events that shocked us all, which of course we all condemn and show our most absolute revulsion. I simply wanted to ask you about the discrepancy of the data we have been able to know, especially given that you have already given this Parliament official information on the receipt of the warning, the sending of the ambulance and also the arrival of the girl to the Emergency Service of the hospital. In order also to be able to know the response times, and not only about the dispatch of the first medicalized ambulance device, but also about the dispatch of two other ambulances, I have to tell you that we have requested written information from both your department and the Department of Safety, and we hope that it will be clarified as to the discrepancy which, according to the information we now know, seems to exist. Also, on the other hand, we have requested parts, registration of entry to the hospital... We have requested all documents (reports, parts, recordings) that can help clarify the discrepancy that currently exists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u146	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Time is up. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u147	Well, you tell me about the discrepancy, but obviously you don't tell me about the data that I have provided to Parliament. Look, in relation to the Ertzaintza performance report to which it refers, we understand that it does not contradict the information sent by the Department of Health. The data collection systems of Osakidetza and the Department of Safety in case of emergencies, in 112, are different and have different objectives, although they are coordinated through 112, which explains that differences may occur, in any case not very relevant. Osakidetza uses the Euskarri application and records the state of service of ambulances through a GPS system, with automatic recording of the time and location coordinates of ambulances, without any operator intervention. In the case of Ertzaintza the Zutabe system is used, where the data is recorded manually by operators and based on the information that the ertzainas send orally from the place of occurrence. The time and location of ambulances is recorded by Osakidetza. With regard to the care of the girl in the Emergency Service of Santiago, all the professionals working in emergencies know that when a person arrives in the emergency room of a hospital for a vital emergency, especially if he arrives without accompanying family members, in the first place he is treated without delay until his hemodynamic stability, which is the priority, in order to subsequently carry out the administrative records of arrival, filiation, etc. As far as transparency is concerned, as you know, we have also asked for the two vice-advisors to appear for any doubt.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u148	Thank you, Mr. Darpón... Your time is up. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Euspeitia of Patxia AEspeitia, a member of the United States and of the political departments of the United States, about the homage of Arnuldo Ocera, and about the aid services of the Eucotians." Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u149	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to all of you, or good noon to the chief of the departments. Today, on the 5th of March, we are here to discuss the aids made by Euscot for Belodromus, or to ask questions. More than once, socialists have requested this government to increase railway services. We have, indeed, requested that some of the citizens and some of the municipal houses round about to receive this night of the Deba-Dognostian. Above all, foreseeing that in the future many people will be gathering for culture and sports calls, and other events necessary. But precisely to-day we come to this particular point. In the 5th of March we learned that Arnuldo Ocera was to be made in the Belodrome of the Anoöpolis to strengthen the railway services of the St. This was announced by the megaphones at the station that there was to be a special timetable. I said it through the Megaphones, but it didn't show up on social networks. But because of the game next day against Real Sociedad Levante, yes. We do not know the reasons for which it is sometimes done, and not in others, to inform the people or those who are interested in it. We don't know what kind of a Euskondo uses to strengthen the public transportation services, or the media they choose to open, and we'd like to make sure that they're not in the political situation at each moment. That's why I'm going to the question today. What are the criteria that are used for a political event to strengthen the public transport?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u150	Thank you, Mr. Ella. To answer, Madame, your word is too much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u151	Good morning, ladies of tables, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Well, last March, 5th, Eukot's set up special services from an event that was performed in Donosta. I had foreseen more travelers than one common Saturday. Without considering what kind of action it was, the assistant of the Eukot's offer meets every Wednesday of the year, in order to arrange the offer for the service. He decided to arrange special trains for the security and comfort of Eukot's users. This last is precisely the principal end of arranging particular services, whatever may be the reason why the application has been increased. Cultural events, associated with sports, and other things. The Eucoten has to provide for the safety and comfort of the users, either inside the units, or at stations, avoiding any kind of events and societies that might cause accidents. On the 5th of March, at the Esostian stations, at Amara and Anos, more rounds and rounds than on a Saturday without an event were registered. Having foreseen the promotion of the demand, they were covered with special services organized.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u153	Yes, you mentioned how the Eukot's service decides according to its needs. But that day, too, there were more events in St. Augustine, which were arranged by two other Basques in the Darkes. And if we see how the hours were set on the panels, the aid of the hour's office makes them co-incillation to Belodromus-that is to say, from 15:18 to 21:48. And there were other organizations even in the Darkest, arranged by the Basques, as I have said, at eight or ten, which does not answer for their return. So I think, and I shall not mention minutes and seconds, because the chief physician of the first health department has mentioned them, but it will be agreed that they advanced every quarter of an hour to the organisation of Belodromus. Well, I don't think that's appropriate. Not appropriate. It's only right if it's necessary. But our question is, why sometimes, and sometimes not? As I have already mentioned in our initial question, those of the Daba, we have asked more than once to put this night-train on the question. There was no answer from here, and in cases like this. I think it's for the chief physician or government to answer them all, or to satisfy the wants of all. Well, time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u154	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u155	Yeah. As I have said before, the assistant of the Eukot's offer meets every Wednesday of the year, and makes proposals according to the application of the service. As far as the services are concerned, some events are traditional. It is therefore well known that they will perform special services, since we have the historical data of the past few years. For example: Main week, Day Santo Thomas, day of the OPE of the Membership, or football games. In such cases we let the media know by the press, and even in the stations we make notes. In any case, when a special service is organized, but when these services are started according to the number of passengers in railway stations, for example, on the day we're examining this case, it's only announced in the applications of the Eukots, and the trains start by application. 13 trains of action set to one direction and 14 to the other. That's why they traveled on March 5th, the division of these 4,000 extras. It was this other: 150 people per train. If we hadn't planned a special service, we'd have seen the overture on regular trains, more than 200 people on regular trains. To organize special services for these events, and not announce them in the media, is not only the case. It's not a new Eukoten story. For the demand foreseen for them is not quite certain a priori, and services must almost at the same time be adjusted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-18.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was ten past two in the afternoon.
