ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we shall call Jone the High Court of Parliament. [[It's in.]] First point in theme list: "The examination of human rights, of equality, of the citizen's board, of the American Autonomy in the Esquire, between 1978 and 1999, which has been committed to the violation of human rights on the bill of law. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board, for judgment? We're going to the teams' turn. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u1	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselors, Mr. Lehendakari. A servant had already had the opportunity, in the debate on the amendment of this bill in its entirety, to explain some of the fundamental arguments which in turn explained that amendment in its entirety. Basically, we all keep them today so as not to support this law that will definitely be passed by a majority of this House. There are several reasons why we will not support this law. In that debate in this House three weeks ago, I first set out to explain everything to do with the procedural or temporary reasons for the Basque Government's submission of this bill. I said on that occasion that the bill was presented in haste and hastily, for electoral and party interests of the party in the government, the Basque Nationalist Party. I said that it drew attention to the fact that both the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party had prioritized the adoption of forced marches of this law to others that could be much more important to Basque society, such as the law of transparency, the law of the public sector, the law of employment, the law of public employment, among many that would have a much greater, more direct impact on the lives of Basque citizens. I also added that the decision of the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu to prevent the extension of the deadline for the submission of amendments requested by two political groups could only be understood as what we think is still: another political cacicada, mainly led by the Basque Nationalist Party. Thus, he said, the House was given a half-doing job, a project not sufficiently worked out, with a good number of unresolved legal doubts, which will eventually invalidate the law. All laws must be legally secure, but this in particular, taking into account its controversial content, more than any other. And, to our mind, it's not. These may be less important arguments than others that make us not going to support this law. There are certainly legal problems. The first obstacle is its clear note of unconstitutionality with regard to its scope of application. It is unacceptable to pretend to be a victim of police abuse or political violence without due process. Because the jurisdictional power that encompasses the capacity to judge and enforce the court, recognized in article 117 of the Constitution, is exclusive to judges and magistrates. If this law is intended to enable the possibility of recognizing the existence of certain abuses against certain victims through purely administrative procedures, or even in the case of acquittal criminal sentences, we will be legally validating the possibility of non-compliance with the rule of law and the normative hierarchy. Equally in question is the presumption of innocence of any victim, as well as the right to effective judicial protection of all citizens, fundamental rights provided for in article 24.2 of the Constitution. There would be more problems of unconstitutionality. If we accept what is contained in the draft law, we would be faced with a clear violation of the non bis in idem principle (the same facts cannot be judged twice), as well as of criminal prejudiciality, which gives priority to ongoing criminal proceedings against any other and prevents the conduct of administrative and civil proceedings when criminally determined facts are being judged. Having said that and explaining the legal reasons why we cannot support this law, I would like to make some political reflections. It is intended to contextualize the present bill in the recent historical period, marked by violence and terrorism in the Basque Country. At the same time, it is a question of clarifying, clumsily in our view, that such a bill cannot be interpreted to equate violence or to justify terrorist violence from the point of view of assuming the existence of police abuses, which, on the other hand, it is clear that Bildu has tried to do historically, tries to do so today and will continue to try to do so in the future. Political contradiction is served in our view. If we are to make a law to protect victims of police abuse and attempt to contextualize it within the historical framework of age-old violence, we must be right to tell the reality of the facts. It must be said first of all that the existence of police abuse is a reprehensible minority practice of bad professionals, who were overstepped in the use of their functions and acted unworthy and improper of their function, regardless of whether or not there was terrorist activity, regardless of who the victim of police abuse was and also regardless of the socio-political context in which it could have occurred. That is to say, in any case and elsewhere, also outside the Basque Autonomous Community, these cases are absolutely unacceptable. Terrorist violence has a completely different genesis and nature. It is a clear and clear exercise to destroy not only the specific victim of a certain terrorist action, but to raise the malignancy of the act to a higher and more widespread victim, democratic society. It is not possible to try, by means of an erratic contextualization of the police abuses that may have existed, to equate all kinds of violence in a veiled manner, because the criminal exceptionality of terrorist violence lies in its impact: it has always sought to condition the life and freedom not only of the specific victim who receives a terrorist attack, but of the group of citizens and democratic institutions that surround it. I am not saying that this is what is clearly intended, but there is some of that, and of course there is one who intends to do so, and therefore this House is the necessary place, where these things should be said and perhaps no other group is going to say. If it is to contextualize this law, the first thing that could be done is to analyze why it is hidden for the great task pending or what is the great task pending of Basque society and also of the whole of Spanish society: to dignify the group of victims of the predominant and hegemonic violence of the last 40 years in the Basque Country. In fact, we are talking about age-old violence. We wish to remember, but to remember everything, since we understand that it is the only way to dignify the present and to work a future of freedom, which is what has been lacking in these 40 years in Euskadi. Ninety-nine per cent of the victims of Basque society are those resulting from a sustained and constant terrorist attack by a criminal and totalitarian gang called ETA. In Euskadi, contrary to what some have erraticly endeavoured to point out, there has never been a lack of peace, but of freedom; exactly, the freedom from which half of the population was deprived a priori and sine die, that which did not commune with the postulates of nationalist thought. Therefore, there have not been two sides in Euskadi: only a group of fanatics and totalitarians, who with the support of the auxiliary services of the left abertzale tried for decades to subjugate democratic guarantees and coexistence in freedom. Since UPyD we are firmly in favour of returning each and every victim of police abuse. We believe that it is fair to condemn, repudiate, prosecute and prosecute all human rights abuses. It is essential to establish clearly the dividing line between victims and victims, not only to ensure the just restoration of the dignity of the victim, as well as the necessary retributive condemnation of the victim, but also, and in a very special way, to never lose the horizon of dignity that is at the heart of every democratic system and every plural society. What distinguishes democratic societies from those that are not, is that even the most reprehensible of the victims must also apply the legal and legal guarantees that govern our coexistence. But we understand, as I have explained, that this bill is not the right one, as it confuses the procedural scope to be followed in order to ensure that the legitimate purpose of restoring victims is fulfilled without injuring fundamental rights or democratic guarantees. It is not the Basque Administration that is responsible for undertaking parallel trials on who is a victim and who is a victim, not the way it is done, and this project slides this possibility behind the back of the only voice authorized to judge facts such as those that can generate someone to become a victim: the courts and the courts. It is not for the legislature or the executive in any case to have the power to quash the functions of the judiciary by conducting parallel trials at the discretion of the courts. The discretion of the administration, by its nature and logic ever greater than that of the judiciary, raises questions about the neutrality of the procedure envisaged. If something has taught us the nationalist experience in these years, it is that the aseptic and neutral character of the Administration during all these years of nationalist hegemony has shone for its absence. Always, and regardless of the subject at hand, nationalist governments have tended to favour those on their own. It is legitimate to think that such discretion of the Basque administration, behind the back not only of the judiciary, but also of the rest of the state administrations, opens the fence to the risk that this law will be politicized in its application, as in part also occurs in its drafting. You can't pass a rule that from birth appears with the mark of pursuing goals...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u2	Please finish, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u3	I'm finishing up. A rule that appears from birth to pursue biased political objectives, with non-observance of the channels, cannot be adopted, correct procedures. In short, these are the reasons that prevent us from supporting this law that the majority of this House will, in any case, approve. Nothing more and thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, counselors. We come to the end of the express processing of this bill, initially of recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations produced in contexts of unlawful repression, now "contexts of violence of political motivation", in the Basque Autonomous Community between 1978 and 1999. We reproduce in this last round the debate that has already taken place initially in the debate on the amendments as a whole, but also last week in the committee, with the same political position. We remember that my group tabled an amendment in its entirety, which was also defended in this plenary, and it is clear that for us the approach we have taken is still valid today. Our amendments have sought not to enter into contexts and focus on human rights violations that could have occurred and that could be established by judicial proceedings and decisions, with or without sentences. Our amendments have tried to unblock some non-constitutional issues, but, unfortunately, we have failed to do so. We maintain the view expressed in the presentation of the amendment as a whole on two important issues. The first, the express handling of a draft of these characteristics and the absence of a more calm, sustained debate and the possibility of further analysis of many of these issues to be dealt with. It took more time, more quiet to resolve many legal doubts. These legal doubts. And, on the other hand, our conviction that this project harbours significant doses of legal uncertainty, mainly in the context of its articles 1 and 2, which set out the object of the law and the scope of its application. And those concepts... The political motivation in this bill is legally unexplained and it is the context that presides over the journey and the recognition of the whole law. Public official: with serious criminal charges in relation to certain issues, for in-service or out-of-service responsibilities. Means of proof: in a non-judicial or pre-existing procedure. This is the centre of the question which leads us not to vote in favour of this committee opinion today. And in addition, as Mr. Fernández, the Secretary General of Peace and Co-existence, said on 14 July (date of the only meeting of the bill's presentation), the scope of the bill remains the same as that of the bill. That's what he said after the presentation meeting left. After the agreement of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party on the bill, he said that the fundamental trunk remains. It is logical, then, that we also maintain that criterion in relation to the amendment of the whole, and our suspicions, our certainty of palm legal uncertainty. We base our rejection of the bill on the legal indeterminate nature of the bill, on the interpretative uncertainty of the text, as well as on the difficulty of addressing important competition issues, especially those of a judicial order. How is it shown in this legal text that there was political motivation? How is a context of political motivation declared? What process, apart from the legal one, that is, what political process, is established for this assessment? How is a criminal context of political motivation declared if it is not by a judge? Forensics, damage determination, forensics, etc., cannot be a political process. It might be thought that prior to such application of the law there should be some kind of political commission, of political analysis of the situation referred to; of course, something extremely complex, since that is already done by the judges. And we focus on what regulates the bill, the future law: essentially, the scope of application. And that is what is not, from our point of view, well bound legally. Article 2.2 of the scope of application states: "For the purposes of this Act, a violation of human rights produced in a context of politically motivated violence shall be deemed to have occurred with the concurrence of the following conditions". First, "It occurred in a context of politically motivated violence." That is to say, in addition to reiterating, it is not explained, that is absolutely out of concept. It neutralizes itself, there is only to read it. And second: "that it was carried out in a context of action or action for the purpose of political motivation, and in which it could have participated either in the performance of its functions or outside the exercise of its functions; or in particular...". That is, an extremely complicated and complex issue, which is simply black on white in a second paragraph of a law as complex legally and as insecure as this. And, on the other hand, "The violation of human rights in a context of politically motivated violence may be established by the provision of a judicial or administrative decision, or, alternatively, by any means of evidence admissible in law, without the need for a prior judicial process". These issues are not legally closed in this law, these issues are going to bring many problems. Some seem to want them to bring problems, some seem to want problems in relation to legal interpretation. It is that this text, its object and its scope, is not legally closed, let alone... Politically some will close it in the vote, but legally it is not closed and will cause many problems. Cojua herself has already warned about this; all we have to do is read the Cojua report to see where we are going. My group has tabled 42 amendments, in addition to all of them. We withdrew in debate 12 because of the rejection of our amendments to Articles 1 and 2 and then they ceased to be consistent with the text we wanted. We understand that, as in everything, some of our amendments... We have to say once again (as we said in the debate on the whole amendment) that more time would have been needed – it would have been good, it would have been healthy longer – to discuss this law, if not at the end of this legislature, at the beginning of the next one. Surely we were right, we had improved that legal certainty that we have in question. As we said, with some of our amendments that have been accepted, we have tried to make a technical contribution to refocusing some issue. But what we wanted, and I have already explained, was a radical change in the conception of the violation of human rights, without alluding to contexts, and that has not occurred in the short, short, little debate, no parliamentary debate, in relation to this bill. Similarly, we are concerned, and very concerned, about the possible challenge of such a law, as has already been the case with some other previous regulations. And this leads to frustration of expectations and that's not good either; it's not good politically, it's not good legally. And all these issues could well have been neutralized in a more calm political debate that would have had a greater impact on legal security issues, on those aspects that I have told you before in relation to political motivation, with officials, with the means of proof, which are absolutely unbound in a legal text of these characteristics, which recognizes and seeks to recognize rights such as this. We have a major lack of legal certainty and that is the fundamental element that makes us vote negatively on this bill. We would have really wanted to discuss these issues, but that debate has been prevented. Similarly, an evaluation committee is set up which, in the light of these Articles 1 and 2, will have to play a very complicated role, a very complex role. It is going to have to play the role of expertise, the role of recognition, the role of finding out the issues that are supposed to describe the scope of application, but it is going to have to play a role that is not going to fall to it, because it is going to have to play a legal and political role that is not going to fall to it and that should not fall to this Committee on Evaluation. For the Evaluation Commission, after the adoption of Articles 1 and 2, we find a lack of legal accommodation and deep indeterminateness. Madam President, these are the reasons that lead us to stand against this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. First, I wish to salute the victims of the civil rights of the State which are with us. For your confession, your attention, your dignity has been the guide of our conduct. He wanted to collect EH and want a whole law for the confession and observation of the victims of the human rights of the state, an integral law. Every person, who has suffered a violation of the human rights of the state from political causes, has a right to be admitted to his case, and we must secure it. We wanted this law to be made for the victims, but most of all we wanted to do it with the victims. We wanted to hear the objects of this law and the people who would be subject. We wanted to know their testimony, their lives. We wanted to feel their tragedies as if they were ours. We wanted to share the oblivion and neglect that they had suffered with them. We wanted to know, share, and feel their hopes, their desires, their inspirations. So we invited them to the several victims' committee: Victims of state terrorism, slain, tortured, wounded by the power of state security, victims of various police bodies and victims of prison policy. We make a very good estimate of what we hear in the scene, of the opinions received there. Biktime's opinion has been the best thermometer for us. A constantation: victims have waited too long. From this process, and from a reading of the past, we infer that the institutions have been much disturbed, that they have been long delayed, to begin this course of truth and justice. That's why we thought a law was necessary. That's why we helped him transfer a law, speeding up the deadlines, working on honesty and diligence. Although we didn't even like our latest results, we couldn't let victims wait any longer. We are involved in the processing of a law on which, before birth, the threat was even identified, addressed by the person who usually materializes the threats, that is, by the Ministry of the Interior. Allegedly, we have no right to recognize and repair according to which victims. We are involved in a law that has finally been brought not through agreement, debate, discussion, but through a two-banded pact. An agreement we have to regret, because it has never sought the incorporation of EH Bildu. We believe that during this process, already at its last stage, three clear positions have been shown around the victims of the State. First, the position of PP-UPyD, the position of denial. There are no victims of the State and they will not allow any initiative to affect this theory or contradict this narrative. Two, the EAJ-PSE model, which proposes a step, right, but which is a short step, a dubious step, a timid step. A step to which we do not know if another will follow, since now, after the agreement reached, that continuity forecast that appeared in the original text has been withdrawn, has disappeared from the final text. A step to which only another will follow depending on the convenience or calculation of the PNV, depending on whether the PSE resolves its contradictions with regard to State violence. A step that, regrettably, condemns us to conclude this process of real recognition in several decades, or if it ends earlier, is to close it in false. Finally, the model of EH Bildu intended to create an integral law for truth. In other words, if one prefers, a commission of truth, of the whole truth, without compromise, to the clear. That is what we want, and that is what we were also drawing with the 83 amendments that we tabled: a truth commission that welcomes all victims on equal treatment, without deadlines and without requirements. In the debate in the committee, Mr Iturrate told me, as a reproach, that we wanted to make a committee on the truth. I don't take it as a reproach. We don't hide it, that's our goal. I should have said that perhaps it was the goal shared by others, since this very Parliament adopted on 28 November 2008 a non-law proposal calling precisely for the creation of truth commissions, something that was then the way and something that we interpret today is still the way. We were looking for the same thing with our 83 amendments. In point of fact, we were just trying to improve the law from five points of view. First, we intended to establish clearly, not only the will of the political majority, but also the right of this people, that we have a duty to acknowledge and observe the victims. We wanted you to establish that it's an imperative code of international regulations. In the second place, we wanted to get all the victims. We can't understand why a 50-year-old victim or a 2000-year-old victim will be left out. We don't know how to explain this to these victims, how to say they'll have to wait longer. For the third time, to observe, we wanted to open up the measures for rehabilitation or damage. I shall put it forward in a crude manner: why, according to a law, a dead man is worth 2500,000, and, according to this law, the state is 135,000? Why does one victim count in the middle of the other? The difference between other laws and this seems painful to us. Fourthly, it is true that there are many victims to be known and observed. The new Paco House has recently said that 4.900 were tortured, and wounded, plus the dead. Is it enough that the instruments which are placed in this law should be made to confess and observe the universe? We think we don't. Fifthly, according to the law that will be approved, the impulse is placed in the hands of the victims. The victim must demand it, the victim must have the documents built up, the victim himself will testify; he must seek strength and courage to carry this course from beginning to end. We wanted to set up a procedure to help the victims, forming a large research equipment. We sought to find that he knew how to make a complete company of public institutions. Unfortunately, of the 83 amendments tabled by EH Bildu, those that sought to shield the project in international legal security, those that intended to respond to all victims in terms of equality, those that established rigorous investigative mechanisms, those that intended to equip us with instruments to accompany, to walk with the victims, of those 83 amendments only three have been accepted. Perhaps it was more worthwhile to secure the majority with the Socialist Party, or perhaps to approach the one who threatened to block this project, and I mean the PP. It can therefore be understood that 31 of the 42 PP amendments have been accepted. It is clear who he wanted to join and who he wanted to corner. We believe that this law condemns the victims to continue to fight, to continue to fight so that they all have an integral, egalitarian, truth and total justice law. EH Bildu wants to complete this process and wants to accompany absolutely all the victims and facilitate their path. True, we admit that with this law there are victims who will be known, recognized and repaired; that for some victims this law is a real expectation of truth and reparation, because they had no expectation; that for many people to whom the door to hope had been closed perhaps today opens not a window, but a crease. We cannot refuse to take this step, even less when we want to question our capacity to recognize, to repair as a society, as a people to our victims. That is why our vote today will be on abstention. Forbearance that is accompanied by a commitment, that of continuing to work until fulfilling all the rights of all victims throughout Euskal Herria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u8	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u9	Mrs. President, Mr. President, members of the legislature. It was more than a year ago, at the whole meeting of June 11th, 2015, that most of the members of the legislature were asked to present to you the confession and satisfaction of human rights in the court of illegal prosecutions. We started the last year of the law, and it was clear that the challenge would be difficult. We knew it would be hard to do. That's how it's been made, and over all obstacles, there's a good and strong intention of law. We had a little time, yes, but the end was worth it. The will has been clear: To proceed on the road by which the victims of the privileges of human rights were admitted and rewarded, to give them another firm step. An important day today, therefore, in the position of building peace and fellowship in our country. It's not the first step. There's been others before. Three years ago, the decree granted by the confession of victims during the period of 1960 and 1978 begins with this law. So it's not the first step and it won't be the last. There are many other initiatives. I've got a lot of projects going on, by the peace and co-operation plan. The news will come, and who knows if any other law will come. For some people it's not enough today, they say the opportunity is lost, we take away the victims. Just trying to make the dust swell, that's all. Let me be clear: we are not willing to give confession and satisfaction to victims, but we wish to do it with full assurance, without false choice; we are not ready to produce frustrations. We admit, perhaps, that this beginning from scratch would not be the law which the Journal Party would present, but it is certainly the best of all possible. Mr. Tellería, my teammate, is usually bringing classics' date to the tribe. Today, as she talks at the second point, I'll leave the classics to her and I'll play for the connees. In the assembly at the end of life, discussing the law to ensure the rights of persons, Mrs. Ubera said: "So, on our way to the top of Everest, we've reached our first camp. It is not our destination, but it is the starting-point, because the road is walking, because it builds step by step, and we want to continue building it." And he went on, word by word, saying: "So, seeing what you saw, it was disjunctive: To fall into the theoretical philosophy of maxims, or to play with pragmaticism and realism, to give an answer to the common practice of the people, in the central subjects which are common to all of us to build a good ground." This was, in fact, our manner of speaking: not to fall into theoretical theoretical maxims, and proceed with pragmatism and realism, in order to give an answer to the victims. It's the most important thing to keep building a good floor for us all. This is why we have not been able to accept most of the corrections of the EH Collectors: because instead of pragmaticism and realism, you have acted with a maximalism and lack of precision. The question, Mr. Azuga, is this: why, in one case, or in the case of Mrs. Ubera, is not the case of Mr. Azuga? EH collect knows very well that part of their rights were testimononic expressions, and instead of explaining reality, they confounded it. And many other corrections left the law in open danger, and with this the rights of the victims were exposed. The Jeltarian Party has chosen the path of pragmatism and realism, which is the most important thing: To proceed on the road by which the victims of the privileges of human rights were admitted and rewarded, to make a firm progress. The truth, Mr Arzuaga – I was asking myself a direct question about the commission of truth – is that we are writing it in this country in recent years quite rightly. But you do not want a commission of truth: you want a general cause, a great general cause in which you can dilute your own responsibilities in what has happened in recent years, and on that path we cannot accompany you. The maximalism of PP has been of different sign, but maximalism at the end. The PP has grappled with an endless lamentation of the express handling of the law, trying to show that this impeded the agreement; it has intended to hide its real lack of political will after the alleged lack of time. It is precisely the agreement we have reached with the Socialist Party of Euskadi that, in addition to being appropriate, it was possible in time and form. This agreement has exposed all the faults of the PP: the lack of political will, the lack of courage and the lack of criteria proper to the Basque People's Party vis-à-vis the Spanish Government. Today it is shown that those of us who truly loved us have found the time and the way to reach agreement. Today it is shown that the People's Party has not really wanted to reach an agreement. The People's Party has been left alone, or ill-accompanied, in the claim that legal doubts about the law are maintained. He continued to talk about significant doses of legal uncertainty, rejecting the views of all legal experts who had assessed the bill in committee. And when I say everyone, they are all, including the experts convened by the People's Party itself. For example, the president of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country; for example, the superior prosecutor of the Basque Country. Both have consistently stated that the law is necessary, that the law is irreproachable from the legal point of view and that they find no reason to challenge it. All you had to do was listen to the experts you yourself had summoned. They did not want to do so, but the reality is undeniable: the law offers legal certainty. This is the important thing. It is also important to bear in mind the sincere efforts of the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party to incorporate the People's Party into the agreement. Thirty-one of the 42 amendments tabled by the People's Party have been admitted or proposed to have sex. Doesn't seem to have been enough. They insist on removing any reference to the victimological context. In the debate in the paper, the reference to illegal repression, which appeared to be squeezing both the People's Party and the Socialist Party, has been removed and the concept of politically motivated violence, which was precisely set out in Decree 107/2012, has been returned. In our view, it does not improve the text, but it has so far served a greater context; reason enough, therefore, to accept it. What is completely impossible, however, is to eliminate any victimological context, as the People's Party claims; it makes no sense at all. Its proposal does not provide any greater legal certainty: quite the contrary. I'll explain it to you again. Adopting a law of recognition and reparation for victims of human rights violations and point, as you put it, opens not a disaster box: a pandora box of impossible management and infinite budgetary scope. I'll explain why. The victims of human rights violations, thus, without any further limitations or contextualizations, are all victims of any crime against life, physical integrity, freedom of movement, thought, sexual freedom, etc., i.e., victims of most crimes and offences under the Criminal Code. It is essential to contextualize and narrow the term. Not doing so is actually a way to do nothing. I would also like to remind you that the meaning of the context of political motivation is prior to this law and is previously established in Decree 107/2012. In fact, the processing of the decree is based precisely on the concept of politically motivated violence. This concept makes it possible to radically differentiate this figure from that of terrorism, in order to proceed to a better identification and reparation of the victims. This is precisely what we are talking about, Mr Barrio, not other violence, and this is precisely what scares you. You wonder: how is the existence of politically motivated violence proven? But it has already been done! It has been done in almost two hundred cases which have been recognized and repaired by the previous decree. You don't want to recognize the evidence. However, sooner or later you will have to face this undeniable reality, because Basque society and the consolidation of peace and coexistence so demand from us all, also from you. The law, therefore, is necessary, and I should call it indispensable. The decree goes on the way to the open, improves and strengthens this path. The law came from fun with a legal guarantee, so the Juaristas declared that it was on the committee. Changes agree with the Social Party penetrate into this end. We believe that the intention of law was sufficient for legal security, but yet, after having accepted and arranged the suggestions of the Socialist Party, we may say that the guarantees have increased. Anyway, bringing socialists to the agreement was very important, not just to make the law progress, but because we've made the way to peace and to live together in our country for years. Difficulty difficulty, we protected together the Terrorism Act and 107/2012 Decree. Together we have secured the Institute Act and other enterprises and public policies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u10	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u11	Oraintxe, President. All these have nourished peace and policy for partnership. I end with a look at the real protagonists, the victims. Today, a significant number of victims of human rights violations due to police or para-police abuses between 1960 and 1999 will see a way forward in their rights to truth, justice and reparation. We know and know it's not the end of the road. We know and know that it is one more step in a necessary and indefatigable process, and that it will be gradual or not. Another 187 victims have previously found their way through Decree 107/2012. That's why today I want to recognize the work, dedication and affection of those who have helped to open the way for the victims, to recognize the people who have made it possible from the Evaluation Commission: Carlos Martín Beristain, Álvaro Gil-Robles, José Antonio Pérez, Monika Hernando, Inés Ibañez de Maeztu, Txema Urkijo, Manuela Carmena, Sabino Ormazabal and Antzane Ezenarro, with Marian Sánchez as technical secretary. Their experience and the rigour of the work done will be fundamental to continue on this path of truth, justice and reparation to the victims that we renew today with the approval of this law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u12	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u13	We have the same will to go on the way of confessing and rewarding the victims of the privileges of human rights. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u14	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. We'll take the answers turn. You don't have to say a word... Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u15	Thank you, President. Yes, briefly, to tell Mr Iturrate that we could have made more progress. We could have closed agreements, we could have analysed those legal doubts that you disqualify as a plywood, but which I raised in my first speech, if we had worked seriously on a paper. I in the explanation and presentation of the entire amendment talked about how the rest of the bills had been dealt with in this legislature, with what times, with what deadlines for tabling amendments, with what times of presentations, with what meetings of presentations... It wasn't possible here. That is to say, that you at least accept that I can criticize you for the closure, the inability to debate, the fact that we have not been able to put on the table with more time more legal arguments and more meeting points. The closure that you are talking about in relation to our position is yours, Mr Iturrate, to have prevented a more sustained, calmer debate like the one that I have demanded of you. You have already seen that I politically in the law have not gotten into the bottom of the matter, except in matters where I see legal uncertainty. And I believe, Mr Iturrate, that there is a not sincere tactic in your position, with significant risks and without sufficient guarantees in achieving that tactic. It gives us the impression that they care little about the fact that there may be some kind of appeal or challenge, that they have not worked hard enough. There has been no pragmatism, there has been intellectual maximism on this subject: to close an agreement as soon as possible, even if it is not normally and parliamentaryly debated in a committee, in a paper, to look for meeting points, to overcome the possibilities of friction that the parliamentary groups put on the table, which are legal doubts, and in this case political doubts, parliamentarians, which we can unlock, and we were willing to work there. That position, Mr Iturrate, is neither constructive nor beneficial. We have to make the best possible laws and those that best suit as possible; that's what we were looking for in relation to this issue. Our position should have been and is to open up a realistic and proportionate debate, and legal and political and parliamentary debate, but you did not want to. We said that we did not like or understand that there was a complication in talking about contexts (before illegal repression, now violence of political motivation), the complicated issue of officials... To have secured it or aquilated it somehow. Also acquit in a better way the means of proof. And in our amendments, our position was to fix ourselves as an element of the debate in the laws (because then agreements are reached, amendments are withdrawn, transactions are reached) not to contextualize victims of human rights violations as politically motivated violence. But that is a criterion of initial approach, of parliamentary debate, which you are well aware of. In this sense, it is where we frame that lack of legal certainty, which will surely be confirmed over time in the problems that the application of this law will generate. And we think there has been no pragmatism in his position. It has indeed been a maximalism in relation not to the substance, but to the way in which we proceed in this approach. And, I was telling you the first time, look at the explanation of political motivation. Mr. Iturrate, I read it to you at first. Article 2, scope of application of the law, in paragraph 2, reads: "For the purposes of this law, a violation of human rights produced in a context of politically motivated violence shall be deemed to have occurred with the concurrence of the following conditions". He's going to explain to us the violence of political motivation. He tells us: "It has occurred in a context of politically motivated violence." But is that an explanation within a law? Is that an explanation? No, Mr. Iturrate, that's not an explanation. Unfortunately, it's not. If it were, we could discuss it, but that is not a legal or political explanation. That's a mistake, a mistake of yours. An error of approach and drafting in this law. That's not an explanation. And like that, the rest, I've told you before. On the other hand, I would also like you to read and examine what the Legal Advisory Commission itself has said to you in relation to this issue: in relation to the contexts, in relation to something so important. The Cojua says: "With regard to a possible violation of article 149.1.29 of the Spanish Constitution, which confers on the State the competence referred to public security, by reference to officials, mainly, of the security forces and bodies, it is true that the wording of article 2.2 contains more or less indeterminate concepts of undoubted silence", among them the context of violence of political motivation, "whose renewal to the concrete case will present interpretative difficulties". Cojua herself says so, Mr. Iturrate. In any case, we have made a constructive initial approach to this law. The debate has been prevented, the analysis has been prevented, with time, the debate held, and that will lead us to vote against this bill. In any case, I want to wish you all a happy summer, if the lehendakari leaves us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u16	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. From EH Collect, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u17	Yes, thank you. I'm glad at least that we're having a little argument like this, because there's a law we can't at least go deeper and without discussion. He came with an agreement, with a catalogue of amendments (these are admitted, not), and now we are at least having a chance to have a little argument about it, even though it is limited in time. UPyD and PP are based on a false premise, which means that these issues that fall under the jurisdiction of the Administration of Justice are not being addressed and that this creates insecurity and uncertainty. It is a false premise from the point of view of reality, because first we would have to evaluate how the Administration of Justice has worked in dealing with these cases, that is, by giving them absolute impunity. And it is not something that I say, but it is something that Europe says on eight occasions, saying that Spain, the Spanish Justice, does not investigate serious human rights violations. But it is also a false premise from the point of view of equality, because I imagine that when other laws have given recognition and reparation to other victims, this precaution did not exist. That is, you maintain over and over again that 350 cases remain untried, cases involving the perpetration of crimes by ETA. What's going on? That those victims who have not had a court sentence have not been given a remedy through the laws of victims of terrorism? Have they been excluded? If in that case you have not been excluded, why in this case does this exclusion that you wish to see? I believe that you are starting from a premise that is false, and I will tell you what is the premise that from my point of view is the real and the right one. And I think he said it here, in this very atrium, Mr Antonio Basagoiti, a few years ago, when he said: "ETA has generated 850 murders and those who are in favor of the unity of Spain we have generated zero, zero". That is not a question of arithmetical failure, that is not a question of accounting failure. That is a matter of wanting to impose a story, a story that contradicts truth and reality, and the more we deepen in truth and reality, that story will become more and more questionable. Mr. Iturate told me that in this case he had tried to establish more legal safety by means of the amendments. I understand that the method you have used to shield this law before the appeal of the State has been to lower the expectations of the victims and retouch the narrative to make this law more digestible to those who have to challenge it or those who threaten to challenge it, and to improve the digestion to the court that has to make a decision on it. It tells us about continuity, that this is a step, but that you will have other steps, and you will have to explain to me, perhaps in this second round, why one of the amendments that you have accepted to the PSE is precisely the one that says to withdraw the paragraph that has this literality: "That the period of coverage extends until 1999 does not prejudge that, at a later date, there are no more facts constituting violations of political motivation of human rights that should, if necessary, be the subject of attention in future initiatives that will give continuity to this regulation". Why do you withdraw this paragraph that appeared in the original text, which even Mr Lehendakari highlighted in the previous debate we had here? Why are they now withdrawing it from the final text they are going to adopt? He mentions me and makes me a comparison with the Dignity Death Act, and I want to tell him it's not the same situation. In the Digna Death Act we do not have a legislative competence in the criminal field, and therefore we are subject to this definition that Spanish legislation makes of euthanasia. However, with this law, exercising memory is not yet criminalized in Spanish law, although I do not know what path the PP is taking, given the attitude it has with this matter. I deny that there is a competition problem, although it is invoked to try to block this law for other reasons and for other purposes. You tell me that this is a law that establishes a base camp, but I believe that it is established on swampy ground, that it establishes victims outside and that it establishes the difference between victims. You tell me that I come here with maximalist approaches, because I am talking about a truth commission. You supported that non-law proposal of 28 November 2008 that spoke of establishing truth commissions. Therefore, I am not the one who makes a decision about a more prudent position, but you are perhaps the one who is missing the word he gave with his vote on that non-law proposal. We are not in maximalism, we consider that to be the way. And, in any case, it is the path that we are taking and that is the objective, and that is precisely why, given the step that I recognize today (short, dubious, shy), we are going to abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u18	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u19	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. Mr. Azuga, you say there hasn't been a chance of arguing, but you cheat yourself in the solitary. You've had a chance to meet and debate since December, and we've discussed it. You've known all the traitors who've been there since the December and your attitude and your decision has been made. We know that. If, then, there has been anything, there has been a clear and familiar attitude. Why withdraw the will to explicitly establish in the law the will to continue the process? For the answer is in Mrs Ubera's words, I have no reason to insist. The difference you see in both cases is exactly what has been denied in Mr Barrio's intervention or in the report of the Ministry of the Interior. Mr Barrio, you accuse us of being closed, and the agreement with the Socialist Party and the will to incorporate your amendments into the law deny the lock; the will to reach agreements. What happens is that you do not dare to take that step that society demands of you and that one day you will have to take. The law incorporates all objections and suggestions made by the High Court of Justice in relation to the previous decree. The President of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country, to whom you brought to appear, said in committee: "I have not seen any element of legal uncertainty in this bill." I have nothing more to add to this debate on legal uncertainty. I think that the tenth time, as far as the whole meeting is concerned, will be put to an end to this day, and we must say that we put an end to it, opening the way of confession and satisfaction to a considerable number of victims. And at the moment when we're about to say goodbye to the law, I'm willing to express both gratitude with the President's permission. First one to the president. Four years ago, few years ago, they thought we'd end this law in such a good way. But those who thought that didn't know you well. Your maxim is that impossible is performed by action, performed by action. You have at the beginning of the legislation that you offered for the agreement, and obtained extensive and varied agreements. You stood up to the critical crisis, and you made your commitment to keep public services with quality and you kept them. You've done a great job, and the chiefs of the department with you have done a great job. So he had our gratitude and the expression of our pleasure for the opportunity of assisting him in his work. Bigarrena, legebiltzar-tald beasts of the gut. A variation of that Spanish maxim says "two don't agree if one doesn't want to". And we have achieved many important agreements throughout this parliamentary term, and very diverse, with very different political groups. Therefore, in their part in the agreements, for their participation in the agreements, many thanks also from the Nationalist Group. And most of all because you've done my team hard and willing to deal with the hinges we've worked with. We've accepted thirty-four laws, we've protected the government, and it's been easy for me to work with all of you. We can be happy and proud to say "mision cummpleda." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u20	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Now that the discussion's over, we'll start with the vote. If anyone wants to get something out of the team sets, let me know. The corrections reserved by the popular Basque Groups are agreed upon by the articles of judgment. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 11. The opposites, 60; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u21	So they didn't accept it. Next they vote for the reserved corrections made by the EH Collectors, the articles of judgment. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters of 19; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u22	So they didn't accept it. The articles of the narrative of EH Collecting Groups, and of the Justices reserved by the Populous Basque Groups, are agreed upon, that is to say, the articles of 1, 2, 7, 11, 14, 17, and 18. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 41; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u23	So they're accepted. The articles of information reserved for the EH Collecting Groups are agreed upon, namely, the supplementary regulations from 3, to 6, 8, 9, 13, and 15, and the second. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 41; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u24	So they're accepted. The articles that have not been corrected in the judgment are put together; that is to say, 10, 12, 16, and 19, from the third extra regulations to the seventh, and the second and second regulation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 60; the opposites are 11. White, 0; Abstations 0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u25	So they're accepted. In fine, the explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 41; the contrary, 11. White, 0; Abstations, 19.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u26	The explanation and the name of the law were accepted. Thus it is agreed that in the Esquical Autonomia of the Esquimenia, the law is given in the state of political motivation between 1978 and 1999, which has been subjected to the watering of human rights. It's going to be an explanation next. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Mountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u27	Good morning, everyone. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Socialists are convinced of the need to redress the various human rights violations that have occurred in this country. That is why we have supported this law today, just as we did when we developed the Historical Memory Act in Euskadi; just as we did with the Victims of Terrorism Act, which redresses the victims of ETA's illegitimate terrorism and those of the illegitimate terrorism of those who wanted to end ETA with the same unacceptable weapons. And we also did so with the decree that recognizes the victims of human rights violations during Francoism, because there were those who used ETA's excuse to abuse their power and cause unjust suffering. And that is what we do now, when we assume in the field of our powers the constitutional mandate to protect those in democracy who have felt helpless in their most fundamental rights. It's the beginning of the road. I said it when I passed that decree and I repeat it today that we passed this law. It is a path that we begin: for some, scarcely; for others, excessive. But haste has prevented wider consensus-building, and it is now up to this Government to ensure that the recognitions provided for in this law have maximum legal certainty, and that will depend to a large extent on the regulation that remains to be drawn up. And this is what we have agreed so that the law is not objectionable in the courts of justice. So the responsibility for what happens next lies with the Government's ability to continue taking safe steps and to continue building consensus. That's why we're asking the president again to make his next footsteps certain. We did it while Rajoy was in the government, even though Rajoy's government introduced resources to other rules of our own. I know, Mr. President, that you can do it, I know it. Buruan izan behar ditugu legaren onuradunak, biktimentizat onuragarria izan behar du legeak. And to them I would like to address: those who suffered unjustly for abuse of power, for police excesses or for defencelessness for the complaints presented, those who suffered from the actions of public servants who failed to fulfil their obligations and stripped them of all dignity and rights. But I also want to say that they were minority officials, because in democracy the vast majority of the ertzainas, the civil guards, the national police and the judges, and in general every public official, have been respectful of the rule of law. Because the work of this vast majority of public servants was essential to put an end to half a century of human rights violations by ETA, and also to the gangs that used ETA as an excuse for their crimes. And the law only looks at the victims, as she says, without any other possible interpretation. And so it is clear defined in the text. Some of these victims may think today that this step is important, and others, however, that it is short. But there is a clear commitment: we take from our powers the reparation of those who have seen their rights violated. The Socialists have done exactly what we said we were going to do and what I committed myself to in the plenary of general policy. I did so so that the entire legislature would not be lost, in which the previous consensus has been greatly weakened, without being able to reach any new one. No voluntary or media attempt has managed in this legislature to change the attitude of those who are unable to say that killing was always wrong. Today we are presenting an agreement and we think it could have been a much broader agreement, because, apart from the sense of the vote that has been seen in this House today, I know that each and every one of us sitting in these seats (the 75) assumes that no public official could ever abuse his power, that no person should ever have been tortured, threatened, kidnapped or killed for any reason or excuse from the State. But today we cannot all say that no one should ever have been tortured, threatened, kidnapped or killed by the political project that ETA wanted to impose. That is why we passed this law, thinking that it is useful to those who have suffered unjustly and have been forgotten for many years. But in relation to coexistence we are about five years ago, when ETA announced its cessation, and we will have to reflect on it. The next legislature will have to recover that minimum ethics so simple that it says that killing was always wrong in any case, and I believe that on that basis we will be able to build. And Socialists know there is nothing else. Everyone in this Chamber can probably tell personal stories. But they sit in my group at this moment with people who have suffered all the water in this country: "Frankism, police, terrorism of the extreme right, and terrorism, threats, street struggle... we have all endured our sitting in these offers. Hence, by a democratic attitude, we are sure to be the proper method of acting; strictness and agreement. Sharpness and agreement have been the elements that have enabled this law to end, and the elements which have been considered in many others. The preceding decree, the Act of the Vice of All Terrorisms, the Law of Historical Memory: in all these undertakings we have been socialists, all together with the same effort of socializing. And I ask you, lehendakari, to apply forcefully the rigour and consensus so that what remains to be done is safe, because a war of reports and resources will not repair the victims. Socialists want to continue building coexistence with all those who share, without disguised words, that killing was always wrong. We want the great consensus, shared within Euskadi and shared also with the Government of Spain, to be restored, because those consensuses allowed us to defeat ETA and those consensuses must allow us to build once again the coexistence, from memory, reparation, ethical, social and political delegitimization of the elimination of the different with the sole objective of achieving political objectives. That is the vaccine against any temptation to violate human rights, and that ethical basis, together with equality and solidarity, will enable us to build decent societies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Mountain. Second point on the subject list: "Excellent of the development and competition of the Equinomy Committee, made on the bill of the law of tourism. Discipline and final resolution. "Mingorn has the word. Mrs. Tapia, your word is to present the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u29	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. There have been more than twenty years in this legislature since the law of the organization of Tourism had been discussed and accepted. Since then, the state of this sector, which is essential to the Esquimian Eremia, has entirely changed. It's already around 6% of our raw internal product, and it's worth more than 100,000 people. I'm sure you need a new area to arrange and protect the current state of the tourist sector. This necessity has been clearly explained to us by the sector, and society has told us so. Thus at the beginning of this legislation, and though it was not received in the calendar, yet, conscious of this necessity, we have put the law and the SCRIPTURE in motion, and arrived at the Chamber. We've come to this Chamber with a document that's unanimously accepted at the table by Turism. The Turism Table has shown that it is an innocent organ between organizations to take into account the sector, and to examine and judge several themes of the sector, in order to find solutions. And I want to highlight the value of his work and I want to thank him for the effort they've made to bring this law here. We've reviewed 451 members introduced by 37 institutions and 60 private legal institutions. We have agreed to pass 61% of them. Many of their representatives have been with us and are with us at this conference today. And I want to thank everyone again. Of course, the text could get rich and that's how it's made in this Chamber. In the same way, I am grateful for the special effort which has been made to allow this law to-day, a special effort of all. All the members of the legislature have shown a great interest in the law. We've all been able to examine and discuss content, without exception, and I'd like to emphasize today the attitude of the Basque People in the United States to act for the law in favor of the law. We agreed to the agreement, and left the doors open to this agreement, and the rest of the party to come to the agreement, and to discuss with all the rest, and to make a bargain. Today, in voting, we'll still have that chance. The law deserves it, but most of all it needs sectors and we owe it to the sector. We arrived with the satisfaction of having listened to all the people concerned. Of course, not all suggestions and allegations have been accepted, which does not necessarily make this law worse. On the contrary, we are convinced that the text that is going to be discussed today, which is going to go through the last step, ensures that the tourist offer in this country is of quality, with guarantee of legal certainty, and also protects users and the sector equally. In 110 articles, organized in seven titles, it updates tourism sector regulations to meet current needs and to make the tourism industry in this country more competitive, also taking into account sustainability criteria. The most notable of this law for this Government are three concepts: analysis, participation and regulation. Analysis. To examine and verify all these parts, the best experience and practice of the most advanced countries of the European Union are taken notice of, bringing them into our environment, and receiving them in this law. The measures which must be taken with the greatest regularity in the sector and society's view have been carefully measured. Almost 500 corrections and contributions have been discussed in writing, and more than half of them have been introduced into this law. As for the divisional division, we have always considered the opinion of the sectorial agents and will continue to answer them at the moment of the decree. The agreement was one of the keys in this text. Not only the institutions which have jurisdiction on the subject have worked for associations, tourist companies, preparations centers, and unions. They've all taken part in it, and so it's come to this. And as to the rules, this law has been created by a regulating tendency, that is to say, not to forbid anything, but to organize and protect, in order that the proper offer of lodgings may be put into action. You've got to make it clear that RedMedon, so he doesn't mean anything to you. We've heard this need for two years, we've heard the opinions of the sector and we've come here. This law is born in a regulatory spirit; not to prohibit, but to order and protect, and also to regulate the housing offer of this country. It should be made clear that the Basque Government has for two years heard the sector's request to regulate this offer and has analysed, contrasted and sought consensus to do so in the best possible way. In this sense, it is an aperturist law regarding the possibility of expanding both the business and the tourist activity, but it also establishes the conditions to do so: we do not prohibit it, but we do not fully and uncontrolledly liberalize our offer of accommodation. Thanks to this law, it will be a reality to regulate housing for tourist use, as well as to rent rooms in housing for tourist use. The final text includes the following figures: hotel establishments, tourist apartments, campsites, agrotourisms and rural houses, hostels, other types (it is a chapter to be developed later in the decrees) and houses for tourist use and accommodation in rooms of private dwellings for the same use. Other novelties in the text refer to the need to develop a tourism sector territorial plan, as well as destination master plans. These tools will then define in detail what is considered touristic and why, and especially how to order the Basque tourist map. Chapter IV of the Act refers to the rights and duties of tourist users. This section represents a great step forward, recognized by consumer organisations present in the drafting of this law, which have qualified it as a model for the level of protection of those who live together in Basque Country throughout the year as both tourists and residents. The legal consideration is for consumers with rights but also with recognized duties, following European standards, the most demanding ones that can be achieved and that are reflected in this text. In addition, the law recognizes companies of tourist interest. In other words, it is not within the competence of this law to regulate these companies, but to recognize activities that bring clear value in the tourism field. This adjusts the consideration of real economic activity in which companies that provide services to tourists, travellers who visit us in various fields, such as transport, culture or restoration. We are convinced that the text that is being debated and voted on in this House today is a fundamental step forward in regulating tourism activity, considering new customs and customs that are taking place, creating new figures that so far have not been considered and protecting the activity of both companies and travellers who visit us, without forgetting, of course, those we live and work here every day. This standard is able to reflect and update aspects of the tourist reality that suggest a specific normative formulation from which a normative production for development emanates in a general and homogeneous legal framework. It is this law that will open the door to such normative development. We know that the tourism sector needs and expects this law, which includes in its letter to this House many hours of analysis and of joint work and real consensus, which, among other things, allows the regulation of houses for tourist use and rooms in private houses for tourist use to be collected. In turn, it allows for categorization based on infrastructure and services provided; the adaptation of the standard to new forms of internet marketing; the inclusion of the principle of unit of operation, which allows for greater agility in determining responsibilities; the express inclusion of the requirement of compliance with environmental rules; and the integration of sustainability. And I want to stop for a moment at this point, because the text definitely seals the commitment to sustainable tourism that the Basque Government has been working on since 2008, with the participation in the European Ernest project to develop the framework for coordination between regional research and innovation programmes in sustainable tourism. It incorporates topics such as transport, energy, the environment, agriculture, gastronomy, socio-economic trends and health. This effort has increased during these years, and the aim of the Basque Basque Country is committed to a biosphere assurance. This assurance is what the World Organization of Timesco and Tourism has driven. Moreover, the letter of commitment here in Gastename, on the World of the endure Turism, last November, has been fulfilled. For Gasteiz has already received a last week's certificate of biosphere, because the future of tourism requires stability and innovation, and the law protects and intends it to continue. We intend to continue to position our tourist companies, to make them more competitive, and to continue their contributions in the economic and wealth of this country. But we will not do this in any case: The new law of tourism will be an effective and secure tool. Three months ago, in the Autonomous of Erlaborium, we were visiting President Taleb Rifa of the World Organization of Tourism, and he said that we could become a reference goal. This is the lawyer's word, and I'd like to thank him for the work of the parliamentary and all the tourist sector. We hope, therefore, that we shall come out today with a good law, and from now on the tourism will be a more prosperous and future such as it has hitherto been; well cared for, of quality, and perfectly supportable. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Any members of the board would like to present a judgment? No? We're going to the teams' turn. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u31	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, Councillors, Members of Parliament. We are in the debate on the tourism bill, a bill repeatedly demanded by the sector and for which the Government has had several legislatures. It has taken two years to draft this draft, six months to answer the allegations, a long year for processing, so that it reaches this House at the last minute of the end of the party. If there had been no general elections on 26 June, this project would not have progressed, nor would another law that the Government had just brought to us, because the Government was handling other interests as priorities, were not their interests. So let's be clear. The case is that the parliamentary groups have had little more than a month to form an approach to this draft law, to meet the demands of the different sectoral actors and to make the appropriate amendments. The Bureau of the House has not defended the rights of parliamentarians, the Bureau has prioritized the interests of the Government over the rights of parliamentarians. This should not be the role of the Bureau. In the People's Group we are not afraid of the work, we are happy to do it (working to improve, as is the case here, the new business opportunities that arise in the tourism sector), but we also demand respect, compliance with the Regulation. We were informed by the Government that the adopted text had full sectoral agreement. Nothing further from reality: what was demonstrated in the appearances was that the sector agreed to move forward in the process, but that the text was substantially improved made it very clear to us. And they put forward their demands and improvements. By the way, very reasonable demands have been made and we have transformed them into 98 amendments from the Group of the European People's Party. Some twenty of them have had the appreciation of the PNV-Bildu agreement, the tandem formed for the approval of this law; of course, all of them being very important, they are not the most decisive. I can overlook the government's treatment, way and way of proceeding in the handling of this project, with out-of-place pressures. In any case and without going into details, deals, ways and ways improveable. For the People's Group, the tourism bill that entered this House can be described as a project done by looking at the rearview mirror, thinking more about tourism models of the last century and trying to bypass the new realities and tourist activities that today are mostly chosen by consumers. A bill that distills camphor on all sides in the text and in the modes. More than 20 years have passed since the adoption of Act No. 6/1994 on the organization of tourism. In these more than 20 years, an update was made in 2008, including some new terms, new housing figures, such as rural houses; but, curiously, others were removed, such as tourist homes and accommodations in private house rooms, curiously just as the online platforms that were connecting people with open places in their home with travelers looking for a place to stay began to be founded. Therefore, these housing figures were already contained in the law of the year 94, but they were eliminated, deleted in the amendment of 2008 and are now reintegrating into this new project. From the People's Group we fully agree with the sectoral tourism agents on the need for a new law that reflects the regulation of the current tourism sector. The tourism sector is one of the sectors most affected by the new trends imposed by the globalisation of the market in which travel, accommodation and, in general, online recruitment move, and it is therefore neither practical nor effective to turn a back on the new trends in the sector that have been imposed in Europe, in the United States, referring mainly to the use of private accommodation. Trends that are here, in our Autonomous Community, that have arrived to stay. The bill that came to Parliament did not resolve the necessary regulation of the figures of tourist dwellings and accommodation in rooms in private houses so as to facilitate their activity and collect the specific characteristics of each of them. The tourist use of a holiday home or dwelling and the collaborative consumption or accommodation in habitual residence are different phenomena, although in some cases they may have points of connection. In tourist homes, we believe that the paper work has satisfactorily resolved the illegality situation posed by the bill. In the People's Group we believe that accommodation in habitual residence should not be included in tourist legislation, and should be kept within the scope of the rules of civil law, since the rent is given occasionally and not professionally. In this respect, we are keeping a number of our amendments alive, which we believe are more in line with the reality of accommodation in habitual residence. Similarly, we maintain our amendment to article 1, object of the law, because it is curious that the word "discipline" was included in this new bill, something that was not in the law of the year 94, and we understand that the object of the law should be the regulation of the activity of Euskadi, as well as the establishment of the principles and criteria of action of the tourist administrations, and that discipline should be eliminated, because we believe that it implies subordination among the members of an activity, a fact that does not proceed in the object of the law of tourism. It seems to us to be rather nightly to include this, because I have not seen it in any object of any tourism law of the autonomous communities. We do not understand this concept, so out of context, in the object of the law. We accept the amendments put forward by Elkartean, an association movement of people with physical and/or organic disabilities, amendments aimed at ensuring universal accessibility to all tourist services and resources; some have not been assumed and we also maintain them. We also maintain a group of amendments aimed at removing the terms unfair competition, illegal offer or professional intrusion (mainly Articles 3 and 27). The bill states that unfair competition will be subject to control and sanction by the administrative authorities. This cannot be an end to this law. We in the People's Group believe that this should not be referred to in the tourism law, since we already have the specific law of 1991 on unfair competition, the aim of which is to protect competition in the interest of all those involved in the market, in this or other activity, and to this end establishes the prohibition of acts of unfair competition, including unlawful advertising under the terms of the General Advertising Act. The Unfair Competition Act contains very specific prohibitions and details the activities that are deemed to be acts of unfair competition, as well as the legal proceedings that may be carried out as a result of such acts. Similarly, intruding is an offence under article 403 of the Criminal Code. With regard to accommodation for tourist use or rental of rooms in unshared housing, the obligation to display in the visible place from the outside the symbols of its classification seems to us to be a requirement that can confront the norms of the neighbouring communities and limit free competition, in addition to curbing the entry into the market of tourist activities and without this implying a benefit in the quality of the service. Therefore, we do not consider this inclusion appropriate. Similarly, we maintain the amendments to Article 53.1 and Article 54, especially with regard to accommodation in private rooms. We propose its abolition, because they undermine the principle of free competition. And in the People's Group we understand that the regulation that should govern this type of accommodation is the Urban Leases Act and, where appropriate, the Civil Code, as I have said before. Other amendments aimed at eliminating all red tape and bureaucratic and unjustified or unnecessary obstacles, which in many cases impede the implementation of tourism activities. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing with a rule that we could call a blank rule, from which a multitude of regulatory developments are derived, but they are derived from inconcrete texts, with which regulatory development can lead to many interpretations and many developments. So, we don't share this. We could say it's practically a blank rule. We have also made some amendments to the definition of infringements, because we believe that it should be proportional to the volume of activity; it can also be dissuasive to launch tourist activities. An economic sanction cannot be the same for an activity with an economic volume of EUR 10,000 per year as for an economic activity with EUR 10 million. Therefore, we understand that this should be contemplated in the law. In the People's Group, we believe that the opportunity has been lost to make a law for the tourism sector that looks to the future, that neither the group that supports the Government, nor EH Bildu as the chosen group to pass this law, will finally understand the new challenges that affect the tourism sector. And this is appreciated when they systematically talk about building a tourism model of their own, of embarking on a path of their own, and back to the baton. Own. Let's see, we are talking about the tourism sector; the customer who accesses our market does not understand own tourism, understands tourist values that are put in the knowledge and service of the tourist customer. From the Popular Group we bet on a tourism sector that is at the forefront, that responds to the multiple demands, with its corresponding regulation and timely regulatory coverage, but, ultimately, for promoting new ways of investing and creating new companies...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u32	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u33	... on the basis of the principles of liberalisation and simplification of procedures, which contribute to the revival of economic activity and, consequently, to job creation, as well as to the solution of part of the real estate sector. And, to close, who only aspires to armor himself in the face of the new challenges ends up drowning in progress. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists represent the group. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u35	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor. I welcome, first of all, all the actors in the sector who have come to this House today and the institutional representatives of the Gipuzkoa Foral Chamber and the Álava Foral Chamber. Thank you for attending this meeting. From the Socialist Group we are going to defend in this first round the amendments that we have reserved for the plenary. Following the appearances held at the request of the Socialist Group in order to know the issues pending to be incorporated into the law and for their necessary improvement, we have tabled 77 amendments, of which we have managed to take on and fuck 33. Thirty-three socialist amendments with which we have improved the bill. We have improved this by setting the priorities of the Basque tourist policy, incorporating the principles of territorial and social cohesion that must be promoted by the rule, with the type and quality of employment to be promoted and with some issues on accessibility, with the exceptionality of the accommodation for tourist use of the term establishment and with the clarification, determination and respect of the competences of the various Basque administrations, among other socialist contributions. We have reserved 42 amendments for this debate. And, for lack of time, I will focus on those matters that we consider to be more important and that will justify our vote against some articles of the law. Because these articles, in addition to not solving the problems that have arisen, create legal uncertainty in the development of certain tourist companies, and also some incorporations made on the occasion of last-minute pacts do not have the consensus of the affected sector. The Basque Socialists think that the Basque Government has lost a great opportunity to address strategic issues for the future of tourism in Basque. And this missed opportunity becomes more visible and denouncing when, having its own and exclusive competences, the Basque Government loses the train and the possibility of placing Euskadi at the head of tourist modernity. Because many of the proposals put forward, for example by Elkartean (associations of persons with physical and/or organizational disabilities in Euskadi), have not been accepted, when all they wanted to do was make determined progress in ensuring universal accessibility to tourism resources and services and in social inclusion. The Socialists also insist on the need to create by law an inter-institutional body in the Basque Country, a consultative and advisory body, in addition to the current Bureau of Tourism. This initiative has been met with the "no" resounding of a pact between Bildu and the PNV, when it is an initiative equally approved on 8 June at the Gipuzkoa General Councils with the support of all political groups, with the exception of the Basque Nationalist Party, which said that an organ at the level of Euskadi is created that promotes a balanced distribution of congress tourism, an area in which imbalances exist between territories, capitals and regions. The answers and excuses of the Government, through the Basque Nationalist Party, have been varied: that there are already enough organs, that this is a competitive issue, that you cannot compare congresses with working meetings, that the study carried out in its day is questionable, etc. And Bildu tells us that creating this body only for the distribution of congresses is an excess. And now it will turn out that Bildu in Gipuzkoa is a party of excesses, or that you do not have the same sensitivity if you see things from a territory like Bizkaia, which takes 61.6% of the events organized by the Basque Government, or if you see things from territories like Álava or Gipuzkoa, with only 26.8% of the congresses that the public administration promotes against the 41% that private congresses represent. We do not really understand Bildu's incoherent attitude in the matter of congress tourism, because it questions the study commissioned by the City of Donostia when it was managed by Bildu and it also turns its back on a broad agreement of which Bildu was involved and achieved by the most diverse political forces of Gipuzcoans, as he said, with the exception of the Basque Nationalist Party. Socialists are convinced that the pact between Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party on this issue has surprised themselves and strangers, both in the PNV and in Bildu. Because to say that the Basque Government will do another study if agreement is reached on the criteria is merely posture. A postureo, moreover, without effectiveness, because if there is no agreement on the criteria, there will be no study and will continue the territorial aggravations in a sector like the tourism of congresses, which is every day more powerful. Nor is the socialist demand to create an interdepartmental body within the Government in which those departments that carry out the most tourist activities participate, in order to take advantage of all public resources in an advanced and joint tourist offer, so that they also join together and coordinate efforts from the Basque Government itself to establish, for example, measures against job insecurity and the lack of professionalism, which are real threats in the tourism sector. And there will be some uncontestable reason for the Socialists not to know, but the obstinacy of the Basque Government, and of this department, to advise, in particular, not to set up advisory or coordination bodies which are irrational. Another issue that we Socialists are concerned about is the treatment of the hospitality sector in the law, because not being considered a tourist company loses the current legal status and does not regulate its relations with the Basque public administration, which is not the case with other similar sectors, such as, for example, trade, which does have its own rules. The catering subsector, with this new law repealing the 1994 law, is left out of regulation on the principles governing administrative proceedings. It is all based on the voluntarism of a government that will soon be in office and it is unknown how, for example, budget support for this sector, which accounts for at least 4.5% of the gross domestic product in Euskadi, will be articulated. A sector that remains, as I say, without legal status, without legal support in its relations with the Basque Government. Nor does it contemplate this law, as the Socialists had proposed, that tourist homes should be excluded from the application of the principle of unit of exploitation, because, by their own characteristics, their fulfilment of departure is unworkable, and they know it. In addition, Bildu and PNV have introduced by their agreement the knowledge and use of the official languages of Euskadi as a requirement for the classification of tourist accommodation companies and for the maintenance of the category. Only by knowing, even if by far, the statistics of the origin of tourism in the Basque Country can it be understood that this agreement, this pact, is, in addition to absurdity, an excess, an interference in private relations and violates something that has been a sacrosanct principle, which we have heard throughout all these working meetings with the law, a very important principle: consensus with the sector. The Socialists do not share either the substance or the form of this proposal incorporated in the paper, because it has not had a minimum debate in it, because it has been a drag and "let's move on to the next article". And the government has been art and part of this play, and only he will be responsible to the sector for its consequences. And the last, and no less important, issue is that of the new channels of tourist offer, the portals and platforms of Community markets, which are establishing unstoppable inertias and which are already very few alien to them. The Socialists propose that a study be carried out on the collaborative economy in Basquedi in the field of accommodation, on the basis of the communication from the European Commission which was approved just over a month ago (on 2 June) and which is called the European Agenda for Collaborative Economy, with the aim of making legal and regulatory adaptations within one year, those that would be necessary, in order that consumers, businesses and public authorities themselves could participate with confidence in the collaborative economy in the case of Basquedi. And it has again been said "no", with the pilgrim excuse that the collaborative economy covers more areas than tourism and that it must be the subject of a broader study. Finally, that we are not able to work the specific and we will be able to work the global by elevation. Another missed opportunity for a law like this to respond to the problems of today and the near future, and to give above all security to citizens in the face of something that is happening in Euskadi, Spain and the world. In conclusion, I would like to thank the rapporteurs, the 18 representatives who were happy to come and attend the committee with their presentations, clarifications and proposals, also those who were sent to us in writing, because, although in a hasty manner and to trompicones, as has already been said, we have been able to get closer, to know and to become aware of the very different problems that the various agents of the tourism sector have in their day-to-day lives. And, of course, also thank the institutional heads of tourism who came to our call, because they made us partakers of the various visions that from the political and public management sphere they have of Basque tourism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. From EH, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u37	Hello, good morning, everyone. And a special farewell to the representatives of the tourist firm with us today. Today we're going to step forward on the way to the construction of the Euscal tourism model. He agrees with the law which is now discussed, and therefore he will protect him. We believe by this law, as I have said, that we can make steps in the construction of a standard of euscal tourism, which is essential. It is important for Turism to penetrate into the development of a proper tourism as much as possible into the economic and cultural dimension. This is not an Identary caprice, but a technical necessity and even a economic need. We must sell our own model to attract people into a country where there are special characteristics. The features of this model, of course, are many, but, in order to mention some, quality (accidental offer), balance, stability, accessability, culture, language, gastronomy, nature... In order to sum up in a word, the Euscal tourism pattern has to be based on personality, so we have to deal with our own personality in order to lure people into the world and draw economic and social profits from tourism. By this law we have the opportunity of developing treaties and common works with the rest of our neighbours, because we share a tourist pattern with the North and Nafarro. At least this law can take steps from the autonomical tourist model to a popular offer, which we believe is not only convenient as a country, but even from a point of view of tourism. This law came to this parliament with the absolute protection of the sector, the necessity of the law, which was unanimously admitted on the level of touristism, and was accepted. In all the happenings which have been, all the circumstances, shades, have said that they agree with the law, and are constantly called (as in the press, by the press, or in the private order) in order to get out of this law all that was in our power. The sector wanted a law, the sector wanted this law and the sector wanted it now. So the call was very clear, and EH Collect will answer the challenge. He's got this transfer and at least he's given this sector's request. We knew, as I said at first, that we had a chance to penetrate with this law into the touristic euscal example, and we were conscious that the sector proclaimed it and demanded that this law should be carried out as quickly as possible. So we know that this law has been sent us too late, and we know that the deadlines have been very strict, but it was our responsibility to do everything that was in our power to make a good law and the law required by the sector to get ahead of us. We know the law may not be perfect for that, but it will surely be a good law, because we have been sent a good law. And after passing through the tramislamentary Tramite, the law has improved greatly, and the other, thanks to the contributions made by the EH Collectors and by the rest of the party. So we've got it clear, as they say of a youth, "más vale una son of aley mano que citos de perfectas volando." The sector could not wait, but at certain moments we were even asked not to postpone the transfer of this law with dramaism. I don't know exactly why the other teams... I have no doubt that PP is against the law, and therefore consistency is allowed to retard it. I do not so clearly understand the attempts made on PSOE to prevent this law. I think there were some groups here who didn't want to make this law, not because they didn't agree with the consensus, but for giving the government a political blow. But it's not fair, and it's not fair to destabilize the government of the U.S.A., to harm the government, to back off the demands of a whole economic sector. "Nostros teniamos claro que un goalpe para castigar al Gobierno no le íbamos a dior la trasero al secreto del Turism." That's why the law will prosper and rise up with the support of EH Collect. And that protection, far from critical protection, has been a protection based on active protection and contributions. We've managed to insert important elements into this law, to make deep changes in this law. We've just inserted some rather interesting improvements from our point of view. The balance and alliance between the lands are supported in this law. We also insist on the cultural dimension of touristism. We proclaim a new kind of touristism: an active, inclusive, language-turism; I must above all mention that the importance of the manufacturing tourist is expressed. We've also claimed local support. We've given an answer to various sectors or subsectors' demands. So we gave the demand for active tourism, because he was an orphan, to have a grip in this law, to be a regulatory and legal protection. From the point of view, we've inserted several new elements: We have inserted an answer to the proclamations of the campsels, criers, cottages, etc., in this law. And it is true that there has been a need to shorten the deadlines in the formal processing, but that has not been an obstacle to the intense work of dialogue with the different agents that make up this sector, through a multitude of meetings and contacts, which have allowed what may not have been done in time and form through their parliamentary processing – because it has been necessary to speed up the deadlines – to be covered by an intense work of dialogue, which has allowed us to know and incorporate the will of the sector into the body of this law. And EH Bildu has had two clear cross-cutting lines, apart from those mentioned above, in dealing with improvements in different aspects of the law. On the one hand, the euskera. We find it regrettable that, at this stage, the incorporation of Basque as a requirement in different areas is still subject to controversy and criticism, as it has been before and also here today. Because Basque citizens who speak in Basque and who want to be cared for in Basque, both by the administration and by large institutions, who are perfectly willing to do so because of their financial and personnel resources, have the right to be treated in Basque. Because it's an official language of this country. Some sections of the Socialist Party are still full of mouths speaking generically of the protection of the Basque, but when faced with concrete measures of progress in the defence of the rights of the Basques, they leap as a spring against denouncing it. We find it absolutely regrettable that we are still at this stage. And we have also introduced (here no one has talked about obsessions with EH Bildu, probably because it reflects the shortcomings of others) cross-cutting protection of the rights of workers in this sector: their needs for training, for the dignity of jobs, to take into account their working conditions when assessing the quality of the tourist offer. That is, a cross-cutting defense that only EH Bildu has brought here, although it must be said that it has subsequently received support from other groups. The Euskera and the defence of workers' rights have, as I have said, been two of the major cross-cutting lines that EH Bildu has incorporated into this law. From a technical point of view, we have also made improvements that clarify and avoid possible ambiguities that generated concern. We have better defined the concept of establishment, separating what is the establishment in a physical sense, as colloquially understood, from the establishment of accommodation, in order to avoid that undesirable legal consequences and obligations could be generated. We have clarified the question of the unit of exploitation. It has been clarified in the text and explained in the discussion of the presentation that simply seeks clarification in the relations between the Administration and the tourism companies, and to determine in a much clearer way the responsibility without generating any strange consequence. We have improved the responsible declaration model to clarify it and to make it perfectly clear to the people who subscribe to it what their rights and obligations are. And finally (and last but not least, as the Anglo-Saxons say), but no less important – in fact, it is one of the central elements of this law – we have given adequate treatment to the regulation of rents between individuals, both of houses and rooms. Some say that providing accommodation to tourists by means of economic compensation is not an activity that should be regulated by the tourism law, but, of course, meets all the requirements both to be considered an accommodation figure and to be included and treated within the tourism law. This is an activity aimed at tourism and this must be regulated in the field of tourism law. But furthermore, as much as is said, the law does not impose any restrictions, nor does it impose inaccessible entry barriers. It provides that any person who wishes to offer his or her home or a room to carry out this activity may do so with complete freedom and through the submission of a simple declaration, which is only an easily replenishable and easily presentable document before the Administration, which must not carry out any verification or authorization before the commencement of this activity. There's no entry barrier. It is simply dignified, it is registered, it generates a follow-up of those activities that are taking place in the field of tourism. And, obviously, here we had to articulate different interests, I don't know if contradictory, but different, and this law does. It articulates the interests of the new emerging sector, including the traditional housing sector, those of users and those of the Administration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u38	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u39	Yeah. And it gives the possibility that this new sector, despite apocalyptic appeals or warnings that have been made that we are going to turn our backs on the future, is not only recognized, but that it has full guarantees and can use the fact that it has specific legal coverage, even as a flag of attachment to give more opportunity or more security to the people who request this service. And to finish... Then, in answer, I answer several of the elements mentioned, but I wish to thank the Government for the work done, and also for the manner shown in transmation. Also to Mr. Telllería, who spoke of negotiations in the name of EAJ. And to all the people who have worked to make this law better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u40	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u41	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, all guests, good noon. Today we are not talking about a smaller sector, we are talking about the legislation of a sector that in 2015 amounted to 5.9% of GDP in Euskadi and that since 2012 has grown by 283,000 visitors, to reach more than 3 million in 2015. In this sector, they work for 60,000 people. After all, he's a strong Escal economic sector. When EukMonk got the Administration, it was in negative numbers, it was up 10,4% of the time in the tickets and 10,1% in the night shifts. All the work that has been done these years is marked by the Strategic Tourism Plan 2020, after which the Basque Country brand has been strengthened, which positions us with identity and makes us unique in competitive and preferential markets. All this work that has been done, and to the figures I refer again, is bearing fruit. It required ad hoc legislation to put order in new models of accommodation, the definitive and almost exclusive entry of virtual markets, new aspects of an environmental nature and accessibility of people or the integration of sustainability. At the same time, and linked to this last aspect of sustainability, we need a definition of the tourism we want for Euskadi: a tourism of quality, a tourism that attracts people but that allows us to remain who we are, without losing our identity, our values, our culture or our landscape, which, in the end and at the end, are the aspects that attract people to visit us and that, defended over time, will have to achieve that sustainable, sustainable, modern and quality tourism that we are looking for. This law we give to this day an eternal tramite. The law will reflect all these aspects on the bulletin, not only because the majority of the legislature is protected by a large majority, but also because it was adopted by the unanimous protection of the Basque Turman table, which is the real organ of private public interaction in this country. The law that came to this Parliament was endorsed by the Tourism Bureau, and we could see it both in several speeches we had in the paper and in others that did not come, precisely because they had already adopted an agreement and intended not to delay the process. The law that we are going to pass today retains the essence of the one that was brought to us by the Tourism Bureau, adhered with a broad agreement of the parliamentary groups after approving and negotiating a significant number of amendments tabled by all of them. Everyone has worked hard on this project. And while in the first instance, it is true, we reached an agreement with EH Bildu, agreement that in no case was an armor, as it was said, and to the facts I refer, in any case my thanks to the parliamentary group and to Mr Iker Casanova for the will of agreement he has shown over time. We have worked from our group to try to bring the largest number of amendments closer to the rest of the groups. If we have reached a large number of agreements with the Socialist Group and the People's Group, we must be honest, the agreements have been smaller. From the respect we have for the project we have received from the Basque Turkaism table, it has been less agreed with PP because the turism model described by them collides with ours in the basic parts. With PSE the differences have been less and punctual; on the contrary, the agreement has been in the keystone of the proposed pattern. In this sense, I would say that the discrepancies that have been highlighted here are minor in tone, although they have been tried to turn them into a frontispiece of a law, when such a category did not correspond to them, and have been adjusted to their interest and relevance, which have it, but in no case are they the key to tourism in Euskadi, or the fundamental element for structuring this country territorially. One can try to take advantage of the elaboration of the tourism law to show a specific subjective discrepancy and ask for the creation of an institutional body for the distribution of congresses, but it does not seem reasonable to raise the level and come to talk about territorial cohesion when we talk about a sector, that of congresses, which is not so relevant to this country, nor this country is broken up because it does not create a new body, when the Tourism Bureau already exists to deal with this matter, precisely. Regardless of the casuistics of each congress, the motivations to bring it here or there, I'll just give you a few numbers. In 2013, 2014 and 2015, the Basque Government and its public societies organized a total of 149 congresses: 36.2% in Araba, 36.9% in Bizkaia and 26.8% in Gipuzkoa. In 2013 Gipuzkoa was gold medal in the number of congresses, in 2014 it was Araba and in 2015 it was Bizkaia. This is what there is about congresses, and you don't see any breakdown or anything like it. Coming up for a moment on the subject, by the way, when we talk about congresses, what are we talking about? Exchanges of information, joint learning, platforms for ideas? Or do we really just take them, squeeze them and frivolize them until we just keep their relevance, which is not so much, to tourism? I'm going back to the law. The discussion of a law such as tourism can also be used to show a discrepancy in the absence of the hospitality sector in an explicit way in the classification of tourist enterprises, which are those of accommodation and mediation, when the hospitality sector has indeed been included in the companies carrying out activities of tourist interest, which is its natural way of being in legislation such as tourism. The hotel industry is not a tourism sector in general, as is the cultural or museum sector, although both are essential for a tourism strategy. They carry out activities of tourist interest, but in themselves they are not tourist companies such as hotels, campsites or pensions. In fact, in the presentation, this came to recognize a sectoral representative, who only requested the presence of the hospitality in the law because he understood that it was a sector that, when it came out of the law, might seem to be deregulated, which in no case is true, and this was explained to him, because it is included as companies of tourist interest, as I have said, in addition to the existence of multiple sectoral legislation that collects both their rights and their duties. They could, in short, stick a lot to this law, but they would all be artificial criticisms of a text that has respected what the Tourism Bureau referred to us. Although I have already mentioned this, our discrepancy with the People's Group has been greater. And without going into details, I will only point out that such dissent has been due to the fact that we have been brought with us a liberalizing proposal I would say that even frivolity. We have only worked with one objective, in addition to attending to what has been said by the Tourism Bureau. Only from similar rules of play, only from transparency can we create a tourism sector of quality, competitive and generating jobs of quality. One cannot compete in tourism from different rules, which end up degrading employment and the quality of the offer. No one intends to stop anyone who has a flat from renting it whole, for rooms, for beds or for sofa beds. We all owe him that freedom. But no one, and this law less, is going to help you after you do so free and so long as you get income for it, in open competition with the whole tourism sector, do not or do not register it, because at that time it is your responsibility vis-à-vis all the others we had given you freedom. Our vision of encouraging economic and sectoral growth will never be opposed to supporting that growth with equal rules, socially just and so as to create quality jobs. Despite specific or substantive discrepancies, everyone has worked hard to make the best law possible, and I believe we have done so. It is true that the procedure has been swift for what is being laid down in this Parliament, but that does not remove a single peak of quality from this law. We've worked faster and more hours to do our job. A work demanded of us by the Basque Tourist Board, the Basque tourist sector, in order to be able to advance along the path of growth, quality and the same rules of play. I'm sure that even if we had thrown ourselves a year and a half out of the law, which is the rule of this house, the result would have been the same. It is a matter of making her will, work, will and ideas, and above all, that the latter be made clear. I think we have worked out agreements, we have shown a willingness to move forward together, which really pushes me to thank all the groups for the work they have done. And we have served from our role as legislators those who work for tourism in Euskadi. We were asked to pass a law and here it is. Euskadi has been working well from the institutions and the sector to make it a place to visit. But with this law we intend to move towards a tourism model similar to that desired by Henry Miller, who pointed out that our travel destination should not be a place, but a new way of looking at things. Let's make it between everyone and everyone that Euskadi is that, a new way of looking at things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. The representative of the American Basque Group must not speak a word. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u43	Thank you, President. To be clear, the Basque Socialists are going to give critical support to this Euskadi tourism law, both for the way it has been dealt with and for its content. And the first obvious fact of this law is that, being necessary, it has arrived late, very late. If the autonomous elections were to be brought forward, as was speculated at the time, it would not have been dealt with in this Parliament. The Basque Government has been cheatingly arguing that the Government itself has not had to bring that law here to Parliament. Mr Casanova, the intention of the Basque Socialists has never, on the first day, been to kick the government. It has been to prevent the government from kicking the sector. That was our intention. Another fact is that the Socialists were clear that Parliament was intended to play an irrelevant role in this bill. And it is an irrelevance that neither this institution deserves, nor do we deserve the Basque parliamentarians. We have been the only socialists who have asked for the opinion of the tourist agents in order to improve the Basque Government's project. And thanks to this we have been able to know the goodness of this law, yes, but also the serious problems, the important problems, and the concerns that this bill also brought with it for many of the agents in this sector. If it doesn't happen because we socialists are asking for appearances, many of us who were in that paper wouldn't have known what the real problems were. That is why I thank the 18 attendees, many of whom endured pressure not to attend such appearances and yet had the courage to come and tell us their day by day. And this law started, it is true, with a broad consensus, with a broad consensus that the socialists respect from day one. And that is why we are committed to the tourist agents, to the agents of the sector, and to the institutions, to the Basque Government itself, to work the law with rigour and seriousness. A rigour and seriousness that the Government lacked, which was more concerned to bring a significant number of projects into its legislative calendar than to offer a current, courageous and future resolution proposal for tourism in the Basque Country. And we did not just understand that Bildu-PNV pact, when the government there in November knew beforehand that the socialists were not going to table an amendment to this bill in its entirety. And yet, it dynamite the consensus that it had with the sector, with the various tourist agents; it dynamite that consensus on the issue of accommodation and imposes on it a condition that no one had ever asked, neither in the allegations nor in the process of meetings with the agents of the sector, anyone. That conditioning part of the Bildu-PNV pact. And it's from a few weeks ago, this doesn't come from year and year ago. So let us at least be responsible and consistent with what we raise and defend matters as we must defend them. Because, Mr. Casanova, excuse not small, accusation manifests. So let's apply the story. And being tourism, at least for socialists, a strategic sector that generates jobs and wealth, we understood that our contributions were not appreciated as improvements that could solve important problems. And that's how we felt, Mr. Telleria. We have also sought, with our contributions, to avoid legal uncertainty that presented the bill, and we must say that we have failed to do so. And you are also aware that this project has some legal uncertainty. And the Socialists have worked with rigour and responsibility on this project, and we are very concerned that from now on, once this law is passed, everything depends on profuse regulatory development. More than a dozen and a half regulatory developments are provided for through this law. And the Basque House will no longer participate, we will no longer be the political representatives following the suggestions of the agents of the sector; now it will depend on the relationship between a government and the agents themselves. The Basque House is no longer involved here. And he said that we have missed an unbeatable opportunity to discuss and calmly propose a political and strategic reflection of scope for tourism in Euskadi, because we have had a law in force for 22 years and because the time has come to meet new needs and new requirements. And by running, to trompicones, the "go from this article to the next", and not giving us enough time for reflection will prevent us from doing the best of the laws. And we must be aware of that. And, as I said, after the adoption of the law there is a long and extensive journey, regulatory developments, to give full validity to this law. And what I want, on behalf of my group, on behalf of the Basque Socialist Group, is for all the players in the sector the best of luck in this regulatory development. Because the regulatory agreement you have with the Basque Government will depend on the future of Basque tourism in the coming years. And, in order to be clear, the Basque Socialists defend the normalisation of Basque in all areas, also in tourism. But what they cannot help is that it is striking that an issue that has been absent from all the allegations in the sector, for the Government, becomes an element of substantial last-minute political agreement, so that the classification of tourist accommodation and the maintenance of its category, without any prior consensus with the agents in the sector, depends on the use of the official languages of Euskadi. Nothing more, and thank you very much. Good luck.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. EHGG rep. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u45	Mrs Corcuera, the subject of euskera was perhaps absent, but the question of regulation or the improvement or guarantee of working conditions was also absent and then incorporated and generated no problem or scandal. For that there is the regulatory procedure that you have demanded with so much emphasis, and also with reason, so that the groups can contribute. And in this case we have brought this issue and many others, but you only make a scandalous stone of the question of the Basque. I refer to what I said earlier: at the time of the concrete commitments on Basque, you are always against it. Before we had the opportunity to listen to Mr Iturrate make a fiery statement, almost of love, I would say, towards the lehendakari, his figure and his great capacity developed throughout this legislature, close to ecstasy. I believe he is the only person or of the few people who have been able to appreciate that this has been an active legislature. I absolutely agree with the criticisms that have been made that this legislature has a poor record, both in the number of laws presented and in the political content of them. And the groups are in our right to criticize the lack of activity and the lack of legislative action of this government. But let us not make the prophecy fulfill itself: let us not block the few laws that bring us, if those laws are good, then be able to say that they have made few laws. Whether this government is going to make few laws with tourism law or without tourism law! To oppose is not to oppose everything by system and say no to everything. To oppose is to oppose that which one believes must oppose, but also to give way and give the possibility of moving forward what one believes to be a benefit to society. It is to act responsibly, it is to act seriously, and not to transfer these people who come here, who have legitimate economic interests, who represent the tourism sector, who are entrepreneurs or workers in that sector and who wanted this law and who wanted it now, not to transfer to them our problems, our covets between parties, and not to make those differences block a law that is necessary, that they want and demand. That has been Euskal Herria Bildu's attitude, and that is why we have set this law free. You, Mrs Corcuera, say that this is a missed opportunity, and I say that it is also a missed opportunity for the PSOE to present to us those revolutionary elements that would have placed the Basque tourism sector at the forefront of the world tourism industry. You say that opportunities are lost, but not concrete then what are those missed opportunities. What are they? Do you regulate hotels, when 85% of hotels are outside, when there were only six decrees in the previous tourism law that would give effect to hotels, when hotels have another type of sufficiently satisfactory regulatory framework and, in any case, have a separate entity of such a nature that it would require specific regulation because it is to a large extent outside the scope of the tourism law? What is this revolutionary character that can be given to the cutting-edge Basque tourism sector? Create an inter-institutional body to distribute congresses? Here, in the process of this law, we have obtained a guarantee from the Government that the problem will be addressed. And that it is not in an interinstitutional committee does not mean that the problem does not exist, that EH Bildu does not say that the problem exists, or that it is not going to focus and discuss where it should be focused and discussed, that it is in an agile body that can immediately respond to this problem, in this case in a subcommittee of the Bureau of Tourism. Why set up a new committee to deal with a specific issue when there is a body? The important thing is not that a committee is set up, but that it is addressed and, above all, that the problem is solved, a problem that EH Bildu denounced. I have already commented on one occasion that the Basque Nationalist Party considers the navel of the world to be in Sabin Etxea. I understand the complaint that EH Bildu made in Gipuzkoa, I understand that there may be such discrimination around the number of congresses, but I think the important thing is not how the problem is solved, but the problem really is solved. And we have obtained a commitment from the Basque Government that the Tourism Bureau should set up a specific committee to deal with the issue, and I therefore believe that there is no problem there either. So, I don't see what those revolutionary contents that we could have incorporated into this law and that have not been incorporated, because you haven't actually raised them. The PP has indeed made a coherent proposal: it denies reality, it denies the major, it denies that there is a huge bag of submerged economy, it denies that the vast majority of this sector is out of regulation (I mean the question of tourist homes and rooms rented between private individuals), it denies it. He says that everything is fine, that things continue like this, that they continue in the private sphere; there is no need for any change. Okay, they have a political position, but you haven't raised anything. You haven't raised anything substantive. They have raised a number of improvements, which have been accepted, and other issues with which we disagree politically, but which under no circumstances have the entity to give to this law, in case they were accepted, a revolutionary character or that leap forward in the tourism sector. Therefore, I believe that we are faced with a law that is sufficient, with a law that has indeed forced us to speed up the proceedings, but – say it all too, Mrs Corcuera – of the 36 people you invited, 18 collectives refused to come because they understood that it was a delaying tactic so that this law would not be passed. Of course, on the subject of the times we have been very tight, but we had to choose. We had to choose between doing the work more intensively in the parliamentary sphere and also doing parallel work, because with many of the groups that have refused to come we then had the opportunity to be with them and to know their contributions as well. Doesn't mean they've been deprived of their voice. But we knew that at the moment, if we adopted such dilatory maneuvers, there was no tourism law and that we had a void of several years ahead without tourism law, because you know the mechanics, which was put back at zero. We have therefore acted responsibly, we have given rise to a rather good tourism law, which responds to the needs of the sector and which can articulate a dynamic and growing economic sector. And in the field of new forms assimilated to the collaborative economy, we believe that we have left the door open for dignity, so that a sector that is necessary, legitimate and to be promoted can have an adequate regulatory framework; that they are not imposed any barrier, but at the same time that it gives guarantees to the Administration and the users that this service is provided with full legal guarantee. For all that, I would like to reiterate the thanks expressed above, and especially, as I said at the beginning of my speech, to the people who make up this sector, to whom I believe that today we are going to give them a positive and necessary instrument for the development of their activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u46	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u47	Mahaiburu the walker, get out on the shriek. I think I'll be brief. I'll take what's said. I am left with the Socialist Group's critical yes. In any case, even if I'm critical, I appreciate it. That means adding more to this law; the more we add, the better. I also take the camphor, the camphor of the People's Group, which does not bother me, but which relieves me of who comes from. Who can accuse this law or this camphor group, but the People's Group? All we have to do is look at the last backlog of laws passed in the last Spanish legislature, among which is the law gags. If that's not camphor, you'll tell me. But, well, I'm not going in to seniors. Mrs Corcuera, regulatory development. The laws do not put in much regulation, precisely, to give agility to the laws and that every time the regulation has to be changed they can have that agility. I have no doubt about the government's relationship with the tourism sector, given the results of the bill that brought us; I am not afraid of it at all. The tourism sector must be left to talk to the Government and develop all these regulatory developments. I particularly like laws that do not draw up internal regulations and derive them from them. Parliament's work, in any case, will also continue to be there, monitoring the drafting of these regulations. It is not that Parliament now lets the government do whatever it wants with the sector. It's not like that, it's never been like that. And as for the Euskera, let's not overdo it either. Contextual. Article 36.3 states: "The classification shall be established on a regular basis...". And he says, "In any case, they will be taken into account...", and he considers a number of things. Among them is "The knowledge and use of the official languages of Euskadi, as well as of foreign languages". It shall be considered for making a classification regulation. And in Euskadi, beyond consumer rights, it seems to me very strong not to establish knowledge of the two official languages of the Community in order to consider the qualification of an establishment. That is why I believe that no consensus is required. That's what comes out of the law. In any case, I will insist that we thank you for your yes, even if it is critical. He has also said earlier that the agreements may be surprising, that they have perhaps been surprised within the Nationalist Group. Look, agreements – any agreement – can surprise you, but they are agreements, and once they have been reached, they cease to surprise you. And, as the jota says, there goes the farewell, and I, after the praises that Mr Iturrate has addressed to us to the whole parliamentary group, which I personally thank, want to say that I have enjoyed this very much. This is my last speech in plenary. I also thank all of you for making it easier for me to work in my first parliamentary term, in which I began to be very nervous (I am gradually losing...). And since I'm a phrasing shower, as Mr. Iturrate also recalled... I'm still one of the classics, and I've seen a phrase that's stuck to my hair, regardless of whether the lehendakari leaves us a more or less long summer (that's his will, which is what he's thinking about). Then, I keep the phrase of someone who also made laws (it made laws, but of chemistry; we make laws, sometimes we make alchemy). He made a law that ultimately only worked for the perfect gases and we have to make laws that have to work for an imperfect universe, that's the difference. And he said a sentence on his deathbed, which is not the case at the moment. The phrase I like is Louis Joseph Gay-Lussac, whom you will know, who said, "It's a shame to leave, because this is starting to get fun." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u48	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. End of discussion, we'll start the vote. The corrections reserved by the popular Basque Groups are agreed upon by the articles of judgment. Here, with the Basque Socialists on that order, we'll make three teams. In the first group, the Euskal Socialist claims for teams about the rights reserved by the popular Euskal team: on the one hand, the second article, 137, 138, and 139. Corrections, article 3, 140; 4. article 143. correction; 11. 184. The same Subject continued article, 149. correction; 14. Article 153, correction. Article 154, correction, 19. The article, 155, 156, and 157. Correctations of article 21, 160; 26. Article 167, correction, 53. Article 185. Amen. 64. the article, 194, 195, and 197. The one who used to be article 80, now 81. to the article 201. 93. To the Article, now to the 94.1, 213. correction; to the first Article 95, now to 96, 218. correction; to the first Article 101, now to the 102.1, 223., to the second of the later regulations, the third to the third, 227 to the later. They're all in a bunch. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters 25; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u49	So they didn't accept it. We'll go next to the second set. So on 2. Article, 136. Correction; Article 3, Article 141. Corrections of article 20, article 158, and 159. Corrections of article 22, article 2, 162, and 163. corrections; article 24., article 164, and 165 corrections. 25 to article, 166. correction; correction; correction to article 27, 166; correction to article 34, 170; 35. Article 171. Correction; 36. 2. Of the Relations of the Article, 172, and 173. 41.) to the Article, (Acts 17.4.) "The Responsibility of the Article." 55. Amendment of article; 52. to article, 177. correction; 53. the article 178, 179, 181, 183, and 184. Corrections; article 54, 686 correction, article 55, 187, correction, 56. Article 190, correction, 57. The article, 191, 192, 193, corrections. The first article is 79, now the 80th, the 2dth, the first article, the 92th, now the 93th, the correction of 202, the first 93. 94. 204, 205, 206, 207, 208, 209, 211, 212, and 214. The corrections, the first article 94, now the 95th, the correction of 216, the first 99. to what was the article, now to 110, 222. correction. Refixion to the seventh, 224. Correcting the extra regulations, 225. To the third of the first regulations, to the fourth, 228. correction, says the explanation, 229, 230, 231, and 232. Corrections. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 10; contraries, 60; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u50	So they didn't accept it. Lastly, the correction of 169 will be made together. Article 210 to article 94. Correction to article #96 and 219, 220 and 221 to article 99. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 10; contraries, 45; white, 0; abstain, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u51	So they didn't accept it. Next they vote together the measures reserved by the Basque Socialists, the articles of judgment. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 15; counters, 45; white, 0; abstation, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u52	So they didn't accept it. They go together to vote together the reserved corrections of the EH teams, the articles of judgment. We're going to make teams here too, with the Basque Socialists on the order of teams. It's requested 120 and 1333. Discern corrections. "Junos o partidos?" Seaparados. - Valerie. Now we vote for 120. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters of 19; the opposites, 37; the whites, 0; abstaining, 15th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u53	It is not therefore accepted to be correction. Here we go. 133. We'll vote for the corrections. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters of 19; contraries, 52; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u54	So he didn't accept it. The articles with the corrections on the vote are put to the vote. We'll make teams here, too. Part 4, 29, 34, 35, 36, 64 and 95. We can vote on this team. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 45; counters 15. Whites, 0; Abstations, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u55	So they're accepted. Again, 53 and 54 of the irreligion. We'll vote for articles. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; the supporters 45; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0, 0; the abstainments are 26.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u56	So they're accepted. And now we'll vote for all the other articles that have corrections. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters of 60; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u57	So they're accepted. The articles that have not been corrected in the solution, namely, 7 to 10, 23, 28, 30, 32, 37, 38, 40, 42 to 50, 58, 60 to 68, 70, 71, 77, 92, 97, 97, 101, 103, 1 to 6, the first and the second to the fourth. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters of 60; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u58	So they're accepted. Finally, the explanation that he said was agreed, including technical correction, and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters of 60; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 11.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u59	Thus the explanation and the name of the law are admitted. So the Tourism Act is approved. Next, vote. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u60	Thank you very much, President. Beyond the fact that I have not been able to participate in the debate on this law, I would like to make some general comments on it and, above all, on some of the issues dealt with. The tourism bill basically sought to renew and adapt to the new times the Basque Tourism Act 1994, which underwent a partial amendment in 2008. The bill essentially sought two things. On the one hand, to adapt to the European directive on the liberalisation of services in the internal market and, on the other, to regulate a new tourist reality, such as the so-called tourist flats, i.e. the fact that people unilaterally rent a room from their home, usually via an Internet portal, by complying with the Urban Leases Act and escaping the requirements set out in tourism legislation. The existence of this new tourist reality has had the sector in arms for months, which has been denouncing an alleged situation of unfair competition. The law also addresses a number of aspects, mainly technical, such as the principle of unit of operation, which supposedly allows for greater agility in determining responsibilities in case of several persons in the marketing of the accommodation, aspects relating to compliance with environmental legislation and also the management of the activity of the subjects and agents involved in the tourism field. If from this bill the obviousness of complying with existing legislation in other areas or aspects that are covered by state law and that it is necessary to comply with yes or yes and small nuances that have been introduced in certain areas, the bill, and the law, would be considerably reduced. I believe that this law assigns a role to the Autonomous Administration, which has been partly driven out by the development of new technologies. Today the great challenges of the tourism industry, the first in the world, are focused on big data, on the new formulas of accommodation and transport, which go much faster than the administrations thanks to the new marketing spaces, on the ability to generate and promote new tourist products – which are not destinations – and on having the ability to articulate the opinion of the customers, which is why the travellers decide, we decide, to go to one place or another. In our view, the law is born old and does not help drive a sector that needs more oxygen and no more bureaucracy or interventionism to compete. The second title defines the role of the tourist administration, the orientation of its policy, provides for coordination and regulates competences between administrations. One comment: the movement of travelers in the world is fundamentally affected by aspects related to geopolitics, in which nothing can be influenced by a regional or national administration, or rather little. On the other hand, I wonder how it is possible that, in a global competition in which little or nothing can be influenced as a regional brand to gain customers, the need for coordination and cooperation with one of the most prestigious tourist brands in the world, such as the Spanish brand, is not incorporated into a law of these characteristics. In Title 3, on tourism resources, the Government is committed to justifying its existence in the field of tourism policy. Let the Government determine what tourism resources are, in our view, at least pretentious. The law conveys an ancient vision. It is citizens in general and travellers in particular who articulate what is a tourist resource and where to go and why, no matter how much the Administration is committed to making lists or plans. What has more influence when visiting an area or enjoying a touristic product in the Basque Country or anywhere in Spain: TripAdvisor.com or the website of the Basque Government? The Administration should focus on meeting and maintaining every resource or destination in good condition and be attentive to the new demands or trends that are articulated around the tourism market. Title 4 on tourism users is merely an amendment to the Consumer Status Act. Title 5 incorporates the Community Directive on the liberalisation of services in the internal market. With regard to this directive, it is not necessary to point out that UPyD is clearly in favour. This title also regulates the general provisions on tourism enterprises, which are existing ones, and does not go beyond those reflected in national legislation, with some minor incorporations. Chapter 3 of this title regulates tourist accommodation companies and includes the new type that they call "rooms in private dwellings for tourist use". I believe that the problem of alleged unfair competition with this new figure, which, on the other hand, has always existed but which some Internet portals have developed exponentially, is not solved by making them register under threat of fine. What the accommodation sector needs to do is to market well, generate branding and bring added value. I think that's the fundamental thing. Nor do we agree – we have never been, nor are we going to be – with any kind of pretension that tries to impose supposed language rights, which really do not exist. We are against the pretension of the simple idea of imposing the Basque; it seems to us to be nonsense, in addition to something absolutely unnecessary. There is, of course, the right to speak in Basque, but in the private sphere there is no right to be heard in a particular language. There is no such right. And we will therefore denounce any attempt by this Government to violate rights, and in particular any attempt to impose a particular language. Anyway, I think a great opportunity has been missed. I appreciate the work you, members of the paper and members of the committee have done in drafting this law. But, in any case, as I have tried to say, I think it is an old law; a new law, but it is really old. She's not ambitious and that's why I abstained. Otherwise, I wish you all a happy month of August or at least a happy weekend, waiting for events. I recommend you rest and load batteries. The battle for a fairer, better, more egalitarian, more cohesive and more united Euskadi to the rest of Spain continues, at least on the part of a server. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. I've come to bid farewell too. When I took charge, I said I wanted to be the President of all, and sometimes I would have guessed, sometimes not. That was my will in this law. I wish you all the best. Have a good day. After a good summer, the future ones. And now, yes, the list of subjects is exhausted, and I look upon the whole meeting as an end. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-eight.
