ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting, please. We shall begin by saying that the ninth point has been abandoned for another purpose, and that each of us has taken his seat. First point in theme list: "The question is, that Louis Javier Tellería Errools, a member of the Society of Eubert, made to the head of economics and contestations, is to refer to the projects of the law of Tourism." Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u1	Thank you, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days to all. After sending the pending Turism bill to the legislature, the Socialist team asked for a few releases from the committee. Many of them had refused the commission invitation and reasoned that the commission's work was to be terminated as quickly as possible, because they all considered it a necessary and essential law, because the previous law had been out of date. Besides, we were told that this project had a high degree of agreement. Previous work has been completed this week and is currently in the process of tabling amendments. After reading the declines in attendance and listening to the appearances of those who attended the commission, we have the feeling that, in fact, the complex tourism sector shows, regardless of specific discrepancies, a high agreement with the overallity of the law. In view of the need to deal with an agreement between the parliamentary groups to speed up parliamentary work, in order to be able to pass the tourism law before the end of the parliamentary term, we would like to know both the objectives that are intended to be addressed with it and the assessment that the Basque Government makes of whether there are really urgent reasons for its adoption before the end of the parliamentary term and what the consequences of non-approval could be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning to all presidents, chiefs, and congressmen. Mr. Tellería, I will defend with the same force, on one hand, in order to make a work of this Chamber, discussions, and corrections, and on the other hand, that there is a great necessity to be carried forward by this law, not by us, but because the sector demands Urgency. And both things are compatible, and we ask them to do both. The legal proposition, of course, requires all the amendments and improvements which are accepted in this Chamber, but even the sector requires a law. It must be said, as you have mentioned, that this legal proposition came out of the Turism table, which has 26 members at the level of Turism. In the corrections or proposals committed, 61 %1 has been received in this legislation. Therefore, we have heard all those who have wanted to tell us something. We have accepted the allegations we consider appropriate – 61% – and obviously any discrepancies do not mean that this law is worse. The text presented ensures that tourism is offered, because it is of quality, because there is legal certainty and because it protects users and the sector itself. The sector will feel disappointed and, of course, the non-approval would be bad news for this sector, which is demanding it from us. The last word is given by this House – Parliament – of course and, as it cannot be otherwise, we show our utmost respect for the work being done and our utmost cooperation. To say that it is important to work so that this tourism law sees the light before the end of the legislature or the period of this House, does not mean putting any pressure on it, but quite the contrary: our willingness to work together to make it a reality. Furthermore, we appreciate the will of all groups and the work being done so that this can be carried forward. But we also want to thank the work that has been done from the sector. A sector that has worked side by side with the Administration to implement this bill. I insist: with the unanimity of the Tourism Bureau, 26 representatives. These representatives, in addition, about half, as Mr Telleria said, have declined to appear in this House to make any kind of appearance, claiming that it does not take too much time, but that they have already done enough work on the table and that they are in accordance with the law presented and that what they are asking us to do in some way is to get it approved as quickly as possible. What are the reasons that make us say that it is urgent, not to us, but to the whole sector and to the Tourism Bureau? For it is important to have a new law after a law that is more than 20 years old since the adoption, since 1994, which has also incorporated new housing figures, new forms of provision of services, which the people who visit us are different, require, of course, different services and different actions to the current tourism sector, that the way of designing travel is different, and we have to regulate it. Moreover, the law does not forget the companies and entities that carry out activities in the tourism sector, such as the catering companies, which are not per se tourists, of course provide an interesting service, and the law does not forget them. I would therefore say that a law that comes out of this House, better than the one that has come in, with the corresponding amendments, with the contributions of all the groups, of course, is what the sector is demanding and what we have the obligation to attend to in the most appropriate way possible. Thanks for the work you all do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u4	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Second point on the subject list: "The question is, that Diana Carolina, Gold Herrera, members of the staff assembled at EH, was made to reply to the President about the pretty things that are going on." Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u5	The lady's head. Good morning, everyone. Last week, the phone service for the victims of erotic violence was 10 years old. To that point, the commander of the Angelo Toña ward made a public bulletin and we found out that this phone service had received more calls than it had been the year before 2015, almost 20 percent. The maxist violence continues to be daily bread, and does not disappear, although, thanks to the feminist movement, it has increased its sensitisation to the problem and has won it in its visible form. So I ask the President the following question: Do you appreciate all the policies and investments you're interested in when you're talking about violence?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u7	Congressmen, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, good days. Mrs. Gold, we don't really have to go through violence and we'll need time to get over it. So we have to keep promoting and expanding policies, programs, and investments, and I say so and I confess. And I say it's a natural problem, that it's connected with the difference between women and men. And this is not just about money, or just getting it. We're talking about culture and culture of values. We're handling the policy that we're holding together by agreement and interaction. As for the investments, we have to adapt to our new requests. Mrs Urrea, objective data say that there has been no increase in cases, such as "increase in cases". That's right, there's more awareness and visibility, and therefore more cases arise. The fact is, they come out and report earlier. In this legislature, Emakunde has created a specific area for the elimination of violence against women. We have launched the Jabetuz programme; for the first time, a co-education plan to work on equality and prevention in educational institutions; the Nahiko programme in Primary and Beldur Barik programme in Secondary. We have also worked and signed an agreement with the media and advertising agencies in the Begira commission, to avoid stereotypes and sexist perspectives. We have specific services valued at more than 10 million euros for free legal aid, gender-based violence courts, victim support, phone call – which you mentioned –, specialized staff of the Ertzaintza for care and protection, security reinforcement... In any case, and as I denounced on the first governing council of this political course in Donostia, and as many times as we have said, the problem persists and we must continue to work to eradicate it and even eradicate it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u9	Mr Urkullu, listening to you, it seems that this legislature has been a success in its struggle to eradicate Machist violence. I want you to simply look at an image: 12,000 people right here in Gasteiz, 12,000 people questioning this government directly, for their inaction and for their clear lack of political will to eradicate the Machist violence. And this is so, Mr Lehendakari, this is indisputable. On a very simple question: for you it is not a political priority, it is not a political priority. And I'm going to sum it up very quickly. It's not a political priority because we see it in resources. You say that money is not the element that will eradicate. Indeed, it is not the element, but it is essential to have the means to do so. Give legitimacy to Emakunde, who is the leader of equality policies in this Autonomous Community. It does not have any legitimacy, because there have been multiple times when she has been left alone with statements, because there has been no support from this Government. On the other hand, EUR 6 million of Emakunde's budget, with a total budget of EUR 13 billion. It's just that the figures speak for themselves. A co-education plan. A co-educational plan that was sold to the media in drums and plates, but that is an absolute failure, because it is a wonderful text, but it is not fulfilled. It is a text that has been applied to 50 schools, that we have known the budgets, 100,000 euros, which is equivalent to 2,000 euros for each school, with ten hours of training, that in ten hours, you tell me, if we can change the values and move towards that equality that the Government tells us so much. Because in order to combine these statements in favour of equality, we do not understand, of course, that policies are then combined that increase social inequalities and, therefore, gender inequalities, that go to the detriment of the population and, above all, to the detriment of women's lives, which allows us to have a less free and more vulnerable life when it comes to generating violence. Because we need to talk about very specific issues. Violence is not just an abuse, a call for harassment, it's not just an assault, it's not just a death. We are talking about structural violence, and this Government is responsible for the structural violence suffered by women, because the policies carried out by this Government deepen our precariousness and this generates that we have to go back to our homes and suffer the consequences arising from these policies. Lanbide, on multiple occasions... And you will know how social organizations continue to manifest yourself, because Lanbide does not guarantee clear criteria for women to have access to these services, which they would have to have access to because they are victims of various violence. There are many issues that are on the table, which you have not addressed. I repeat again in this House, that you ladies and gentlemen give a shit about eradicating sexist violence, because if it were, it would be a political priority, you have been approved on many occasions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gold.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u11	...questions that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u13	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Urrea, I think I remember that this was the first time that I had the opportunity to answer your question about Emakunde, about violence against women, that you used the same tone and speech, exactly as you did today. At that time, I answered him in an acidic way, I'm not going to do it today. I think you disqualify yourself, and the worst of all is that you disqualify that feminist movement that you say you set as an example. Of course, in what may be the action against violence against women, neither you nor your parliamentary group will do more than the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group, nor this Government, nor the rest of the parliamentary groups present in the House. We will continue to make every effort to provide answers. Programmes and investments are in progress and have an improvement path, have an improvement path. I told him in my first intervention what our conception of "structural violence" has been: that there are no more cases, but that there are more cases. This is not just a matter of investment, it is also a matter of education, culture, respect, security, justice, and in all that this government is acting according to the initiatives to which I have referred before. And as long as there is only one woman who suffers from sexist violence, neither institutions nor society can be satisfied. VI Equality Plan for Women. I attend all Emakunde's boards of directors, as well as the interdepartmental committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Joseph Antonio Pastor, a member of the Basque Socialists, a member of the United States of the United States, as to the standards in which the interest of the American people is defended by the public courts." Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u15	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, we know that there is no Basque oasis, neither in the matter of corruption, illegal plots, commissioners or lack of control of everyone's money. This Parliament knows this, where we have investigated these issues politically, we have established responsibilities, we have adopted recommendations to prevent such conduct from being repeated and we have left to the judges the determination of criminal, commercial or administrative responsibilities. We know that even though his group has never wanted to understand it, clearing all cases exclusively to the court. Well, there is an open procedure, where the investigating judge has seen sufficient grounds to charge 26 people with conspiracy, illegal association, money laundering and influence trafficking. The previous Government, the Government of Patxi López, was characterized as a particular accusation because it was the autonomous administration party damaged by these criminal machinations. His Government maintained that character. On the verge of opening the oral trial, the Public Prosecutor's Office, which represents the public interest, requests for the 26 accused 458 years'imprisonment. The Government's legal services, for their part, have avoided doing so, arguing that "given the exhaustive nature of the provisional qualification carried out by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the high level of the penalties requested by it, we believe that any contribution on our part in relation to the criminal classification of the acts prosecuted would be redundant". The question I ask you is very simple, lehendakari: Do we have to understand that the legal representation of the Government assumes in its entirety the penalty requested by the Prosecutor's Office?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u16	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u17	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Mr Pastor, the criteria with which the Basque Government acts before the courts are always those that mark its legal services, of proven solvency and professionalism. In the case to which the question relates, these criteria have remained unchanged from the very first moment that this Government intervened in the judicial process until today, and have focused on redressing the possible harm that the alleged criminal acts to which the case relates could have irrogated to the General Finance of the Basque Country. That has been and continues to be the public interest to be defended by the Basque Government in this case: the recovery of public funds that a sentence says have been misused. The personage of the Basque Government in this procedure took place as an injured party – and I quote from the letter of personage dated 13 July 2010 – "to the possibility that it could have earmarked own funds of the Autonomous Community for purposes other than those legally provided for". It must be acknowledged that at this point the legal services of the Basque Government act in line with the concern that has always prevailed in this House when resolutions on this matter have been debated and adopted. I would like to recall in this regard that the first recommendation of which this House approved in 2012 to put an end to the commission of inquiry on the matter called De Miguel literally spoke of "immediately applying, in order to mitigate the economic failure caused to the public coffers, the relevant legal procedures to recover the public funds paid". This and not another is still the criterion guiding the performance of the legal services of the Basque Government in the case to which the question relates: to use the legal procedures that are necessary to repair the economic failure that may have caused in the General Finance of the Basque Country the facts that may be considered criminal by the courts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u18	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u19	Good. I am very sorry that the Lehendakari preferred this time to parapet after the Councillor of Justice, rather than answering this question about a case in which he, being president of the EBB, took the initiative to ask the defendants to hand over the notebook – with little success, by the way, because it took almost a year to produce such a fact at the request, by the way, of the spokesman Mr Egibar and not his own. In any case, it is true that the particular prosecution does not have to fully support the prosecution's request for sentences, but it will recognize that between applying for 458 years in prison and not asking for one, there is too much distance, too much distance. That, more than redundant with the prosecution's request, is at least contradictory, but directly opposite, and does not seem very belligerent when it comes to defending the interests he has pointed out to us. Even today it seems to forget that the facts were known because there was a particular complaint; that while Mr Urkullu distanced himself from the defendants from the EBB, his spokesman hugged them; that while Mr Urkullu sought to demarcate himself, the party chairing this Parliament charged against those who wanted to investigate the facts of this case so that it would not be repeated, and that now the legal services of the government he directs avoid defining the scope of criminal responsibility that might arise from their prosecution. And it's quite strange to be accused in a trial if you don't then accuse yourself, unless you want to look like you're doing what you don't actually do. I believe that you have lost, Mr Lehendakari, a new opportunity to clear up doubts and truly dissociate yourself from any unlawful action. I have come up to this rostrum on the suspicion that the actions of this Government might have something to do with the political affiliation of the defendants. And frankly, I have to say, I'm off this rostrum with the absolute certainty that the political affiliation of the defendants has a lot to do with the position that the Basque Government maintains.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u20	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Pastor, I can see that the prosecution's statement has not been carefully read. The press headlines do, but the indictment's writing doesn't. But, I insist, in this regard, it is the legal services that set the criteria of the Basque Government when it acts before the courts in the cases in which it is a person, in all cases. I fully trust your technical capacity and hope that no one will question your professionalism or your good work. The political instructions are irrelevant when it comes to acting before the courts of justice and the stridences are always bad counselors. Neither the removal of more breasts is better breathed nor the loading of inks on the accusation is better and more effectively defended and guaranteed the public interest of repairing the damage that could possibly have caused to the General Finance of the Basque Country the expenses that a court may consider illegal at the end of a procedure processed with all guarantees. The characterization of the Basque Government in the procedure referred to in the question is a finalistic personification which is aimed at the recovery of public funds which the competent court declares to have been improperly paid. That has been the case from the outset and remains so now, and that is, on the other hand, the main idea that has guided the debates and speeches that this House has adopted in this kind of matter. In a resolution adopted on 16 April 2015, for example, it urged the Government to act as an injured person in a given criminal procedure, inviting it to undertake – and the quote is literal – "how many measures are necessary to recover the public funds granted by that Government in respect of which a judgement determines that an unauthorized use has been made of them". The sentence I have just read textually reflected the content of an amendment, precisely from the Socialist Group, which was in line with this approach. That is why I have maintained, and now I repeat, that there will not be a single cent of euro, of which a court ruling claims that it was improperly paid, that it will not be claimed by the Basque Government. The criteria of the Basque Government are therefore clear, consistent, effective and fully in line with the mandates of this Parliament. This does not mean that there are other public interests that can be defended. That is precisely what the prosecutor is for, in the exercise of the powers of 124 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u22	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Gasmper Basque Groups of Populacals, made to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policy, concerning the disturbing management of the Port of Pasadena." Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u23	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Egun where you're going. Mr. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, counselors. We have a very serious problem in Pasaia, we have a very serious problem in the port of Pasaia, in relation, in particular, to the construction of the fish loon. A fish loaf that was budgeted in its day for 15 million euros, that would already be debatable and questionable that budget, a fish loaf of 15 million euros, but today the most optimistic voices say that the gap in the work exceeds 20 million euros. Almost two years later, almost two years after the start of these works, we do not know the state of these works, we do not know how and what those 20 million euros have been spent, and no one has justified this deviation of almost 6 million euros, and we do not know when the works will be completed and when the fishloaf will be inaugurated. Among the rare things we know, among the rare things we know, one of them is that the president of the Harbour Authority knew this gap since mid-2014 and that it was not until December 2015 when he informed the Board of Directors of the Harbour Authority. Among the worrying things we also know that the Prosecutor's Office has already acted and that it has warned in a letter to the court about possible irregularities in the execution of this work, among which the Prosecutor's Office quotes: cohecho, traffic in influence, unfair administration, misappropriation of public revenues, among others. The question is, counselor, what you're going to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u25	Yes, ma'am. President, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. First of all, Mr Semper, I must point out to you, and to record this, that the Port of Pasaia is a port of general interest and, therefore, is a port of competence of the General Administration of the State, and that under the Law of Ports of the State it operates under autonomy and it is to Ports of the State to which the coordination and control of the efficiency of the port system belongs. As an autonomous, public body, it has full capacity to operate and depends on the Ministry of Development, through State Ports, in accordance with the general principles of functional autonomy and management. Once I have clarified this, I will briefly report on the actions carried out by the Harbour Authority, by the chairman of the board of directors, in order to be able to assess whether the management carried out in the aspect you point out is possible. In this regard, it should be noted that the procedure of the property liability file has been activated so that with specialized technical support it is possible to clarify and respond to all aspects of the report of the State intervenor, counting on the express pronouncement of the supervisory body of Ports del Estado, which has been responsible for verifying the aspects that are being studied in this property liability file. But not only has the authorization of the Harbour Authority of Pasaia remained here, since the board of directors, unanimously, I repeat, unanimously, at the session of 10 March, adopts a series of agreements in which - I read an extract, I read in a textual way - in which "the public agency Ports of the State is requested, on the one hand, to carry out an integral audit from the economic-financial, technical and legal point of view in relation to the works of the new installations in the fishing area of Pasaia". And I stop at the sixth point in the second subparagraph of that agreement unanimously in the Council, which points out, precisely, that "depending on the outcome of the audit, and if there are reasons, the facts will be brought to the attention of the judicial authority". Under this agreement, the president of Ports of the State is transferred with a certification of the agreement of the council signed by the president of the Harbour Authority and by the lawyer of the State. From there, after this agreement by unanimity of the board of directors, the initiative is taken to, without yet having the audit of Ports of the requested State, and contrary to that agreement by unanimity of the board, re-submit it to the council's vote at the request of the same person and take it to the Prosecutor's Office, even though it is also agreed in that vote to continue with the agreements they had reached in the initial agreement by unanimity. Therefore, in the light of what has been done, which is not yet concluded, by the governing bodies of the Harbour Authority, I believe that work is being done with prudence and responsibility and that the agreements reached within that Council are being implemented unanimously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u26	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u27	That the lawyer of the State has had to resign because he claims and because he denounces pressures that have prevented him from doing his job, the lawyer of the State resign because he denounces pressures; that Izaskun Iriarte – who will sound to him, counselor, who is his vice-advisor – say in relation to the audit, what you call "specialized technical support", say in relation to the audit, that the president of the Harbour Authority, in relation to that authorship, independent and that he has to ensure and that he has to monitor how the work has been done and what the money has been dedicated to, say, through an email, it is written, "We are currently working on the elaboration of a work of great importance and they are doing it very well. We are very happy with your work." The investigators, the ones analyzed by that audit, say that this audit arouses much sympathy in the Government itself. It is surprising that technical assistance such as Idom, contracted to ensure the proper development of the works, has collected at the date of the 600,000 euros, and another 200,000 outside the contract, and that either denounced or identified that the works had a worrying deviation and someone did nothing, or did not denounce it and his work, of course, deserves censorship. And of course it is an infrastructure owned by the State, of course, given in its management to the Basque Government that appoints the president to the Harbour Authority, as everyone knows. But I will tell you an example, if you give me time, of what happens on the board of directors. Do you know who the mayor of Urretxu is? He's from the Basque Nationalist Party. He was a senior port manager. He asks for a two-year period to complete a master's degree in maritime transport. After that, he says that he has taken out the First, or that an English title has been taken out, he is expelled, he is kicked out of the work of the Harbour Authority. He rejects that expulsion. Do you know why he's been admitted again? Why has the port lost that agreement? Because the board of directors couldn't get together because another manager was skiing outside. Do you know who told that manager to go skiing outside? The president of the port of the Harbour Authority. What happens in the port of Pasaia when you play the management?What happens? Is this the management capacity of the Basque Nationalist Party?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u29	Yeah. Mr. Semper, I thought we were talking about the fishloaf, and not that you were coming here to tell us I don't know how many stories and how many novels taken from context and told in a run-down and absolutely incorrect and inaccurate way. Because, well, we could talk long and stretched out. I have replied to you in writing some of the things you have said, so I am not going to entertain myself, because you have all the answers, you know them and you know them in this House. With regard to the writing of the Prosecutor's Office, it also seems that you have more information than the Harbour Authority itself and that the information that this Government has, because, as you say, it is mentioned in an indicative way that various crimes can be contemplated. We do not know the letter from the Prosecutor's Office to which you refer. The references are by press and so you are telling us, and I do not think it is good for the public administration, much less for the administration of justice, the use of this kind of information and these issues as you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Five point in theme list: "I'm asking you, Gorka Maniero Labayen Misto-UPyD members of the club to the president, about his attitude after the prosecutions of the City prosecutor." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u31	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselors, Mr. Lehendakari. It has just been known that the Álava Prosecutor's Office has asked the Commercial Court for the declaration of fraudulent bankruptcy of the company Afypaida, promoter of the Hiriko electric car, and requests for its main promoters 10 years of disqualification and the participating companies to return 15.7 million euros received as subsidies from different public institutions. In the same vein, the position of the State lawyer, who is trying to recover the important subsidies granted by the Government of Spain to Afypaida, at the request and at the request of the Basque Nationalist Party, is also recorded. The Competition Authority also requests the declaration of fraudulent bankruptcy. Throughout this process, the Basque Government has not wanted to act and has continued to maintain that it was without more than a corporate failure. Both the committee of inquiry that took place in this Parliament and now the investigation carried out in court make clear the huge fiasco of the Hiriko project, a fiasco similar to that of Epsilon, the other great automotive dream of the Basque Nationalist Party, which only served to enrich certain friends of the Basque Nationalist Party. Both projects have cost the public coffers more than €60 million. I would like to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, whether you continue to maintain that the Hiriko project, in short, simply failed for business reasons or if there is something else behind it. I want to ask you if the Basque Government is going to apologize, I want to ask you if the Basque Government is going to assume its political responsibilities, I want to ask you if you want to apologize also to the political groups that for many months we have tried to clarify this whole matter and that you have, in the end, attacked with virulence simply by trying to know the truth of the events that have taken place. While the prosecutor, the state attorney and the competition administrators consider that this was a fraudulent bankruptcy and claim disqualification for the promoters, in addition to recovering the grants granted, almost 16 million euros, we do not know whether the Basque Government is going to take any initiative. We can remember that the main payer of such aid was the State – the Government of Spain – but that it was at the request of the Basque Nationalist Party in those absolutely embarrassing budgetary negotiations with the Socialist Party of Zapatero. And also that the Basque Government granted 2 million euros and that, in the opinion of the Basque Court of Public Accounts, they were given without guarantees. These are the facts that have occurred. We would therefore like to know what the Government is going to do, if it is going to apologize, if it is going to acknowledge that we are indeed facing a monumental fraud and if it is going to acknowledge that the Basque Government has used more energy to protect its friends than to clarify the events that have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Legs. Mr Maneiro, the Basque Government has said that this was a failed project and I have personally recognised it. It is up to you to say whether it is a fraud or not to the courts, and I remind you, Mr Maneiro, that the case is pending and it is up to the judge to give a judgment. It is not up to the Government, neither to you nor to us, to judge or prejudge the facts. The important thing is the facts. And the fact is that the Government is a person in this case, a person in the investigative proceedings initiated by the Vitoria-Gasteiz 3rd Court, a person also in the commercial channel in defense of economic interests. The Government has done and will continue to do so until its final clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u35	Mr Lehendakari, the Basque Government has acted insufficiently and when it has, it has done so reluctantly. It had to be this Parliament that urged him to appear in this case, after what the Tapia adviser at a monitoring session said, finally and reluctantly, that they were going to characterise themselves and to claim the damage caused by this fiasco. But for many months the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government denied that there was fraud. You have described it as a failed project. It is much more than that, it is the defence by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government of the particular interests of certain persons related to the Basque Nationalist Party. This is the reality of the facts, you defend yours and harm the general interest. You also voted against the establishment of the committee of inquiry. It's the PNV friendship of all life.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, it's less bad that we're moving forward, little by little, but we're moving forward. You have gone from saying that the Basque Government has done nothing, that it has not wanted to act in this whole process, to saying that it has acted insufficiently. Well, I think it hides the evidence that denies it, because the government has acted and is in person before the court, as I told you. Look, you in the justification claim that the Epsilon case served only for the enrichment of certain characters that are all closely linked to nationalism and hides the judgment that denies this claim. The Epsilon case has been tried by the Álava Court and in 2014 sentenced his ex-responsible to three years in prison and a fine of €899,000. The Court holds this person responsible for the bankruptcy of the company. You claim that the Hiriko project, like Epsilon, is the other great automotive dream of the PNV, and hides the evidence that denies it, Mr. Maneiro. It says that the companies that participated received 15.7 million grants. He hides – although he has said something about what the Spanish Government's subsidies are – he hides that 14.7 million come from the Spanish Government's Ministry of Science and Innovation, in the years 2010 and 2011. And as you will understand, despite your accusation, Mr Maneiro, the Spanish ministry has rigorous and professional administrative procedures for granting this type of aid. Of course, I don't think you make your decisions and grant your grants to respond to any dream of anyone. Look, I will tell you with absolute clarity: this government's commitment to corruption is firm, complete and permanent. And I will also say this to you with absolute roundness: the commitment of this Government is also firm, complete and permanent in respect of judicial proceedings and procedures. So I'm going to tell you straight and clear: The whole thing is just about fun, the whole commitment, the firm and the constant thing is against corruption. All commitment, firm and constant to trial and decision in courts. I don't know if all of us in this Chamber are like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interpelation by Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members made to the president, to destroy the state of the forup." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u39	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, we insist on a matter which, in our opinion, is important and relevant. It is a matter that we have dealt with in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies on several occasions in recent years and it is something that, in the end, has also been strongly rejected by the rest of the parliamentary groups. There have therefore been several occasions on which UPyD has called, both in the Basque Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies and in other institutions, for the abolition of the suffocation, the abolition of the institution of suffocation. For example, on 12 June 2014, that is, almost two years ago, UPyD defended in the plenary of the Basque Parliament a parliamentary initiative that proposed exactly the following: We proposed that this Parliament urge "the Government of Spain to eliminate in the next process of constitutional reform the cases of apprehension provided for in the Constitution, subjecting to review as a whole all parliamentary prerogatives". We also urged, through this initiative, the Government of Spain to "without prejudice to the above, and as long as this constitutional review process takes place, within a maximum of six months, it will push forward all the necessary legal reforms in order to remove, in the area of its competences, each and every one of the cases of hazing that has proliferated in different laws". We also proposed to urge the Basque Government. In particular, we proposed to urge the Basque Government to "promote in the field of its competences all the legal reforms that are necessary with the aim of eliminating all the cases of hazing that currently exist in Euskadi, subjecting all parliamentary prerogatives to a review as a whole". We also proposed that this Parliament should urge the general councils of the historic territories and the outlaws to "promote all regulatory reforms to achieve that goal". The aim is, was, and still is and will be in the future, to abolish the institution of suffocation, because it is considered to be an absolutely anachronistic figure, which breaks the equality between citizens: some people are treated in one way and the rest of the citizens are treated in another. We think this is an anachronism that must be suppressed. We brought it to the Congress of Deputies a few years ago, we have maintained it over time and we have seen that the rest of the groups have always voted against it, although it is also true that in recent months it seems to be that this opinion is changing in most political parties, which come to recognize that this institution is indeed anachronistic, has no meaning, breaks equality and therefore has to be abolished. This proposal which I mentioned to you, which was defended in this Parliament two years ago, did not receive the support of any other parliamentary group and therefore fell. In the same way that similar initiatives have previously fallen in other parliaments and in particular also in the Congress of Deputies. On that occasion, when we defended in the Congress of Deputies the suppression of the elections, all the groups strongly criticized the proposal of UPyD and considered unnecessary the idea of suppressing the elections in Spain, which are more than 10,000, more than 10,000 elections in Spain. On 12 June 2014, an amendment was adopted by the Socialist Group, voted in favour by the proposing group and by a servant, which said: "The Basque Parliament considers it appropriate to open a process of examination, reflection and adequacy of the system of guarantees of public office and its limits". A clearly insufficient amendment, in the view of our group, although the commitment to examine and reflect on the issue is more than nothing. At the time the then Minister of Justice of the Government of Spain, supported by the parliamentary group that vilified the UPyD proposal put forward at the time in Congress, stated in an interview the following: "We propose to move from 17,621 outposts in Spain to 22", thus admitting, at least, part of the approaches put forward by our political party a few months earlier and which he harshly criticized. In recent times, Mr Erkoreka, Mr Lehendakari, it seems that things are changing or at least there are some political parties that want to give the feeling that some things can be changing, beyond the fact that there have not yet been effective facts to assert it in a forceful way. If when UPyD proposed the suppression of the outbursts the rest of the political parties called the proposal demagogy, populism or anti-political, it now looks good. If at the time the rest of the political parties repeatedly voted against, they now include this proposal in their electoral programmes as a measure of democratic regeneration. There are a number of political parties that have insulted us to put this which they have now included in their political programmes, the necessary suppression of the institution of forging. Anyway, they're things that happen. The last time the matter was discussed was a few weeks ago in the Spanish Senate, with nothing effective finally approved. At a time when things seem to be changing, we consider it appropriate to bring the matter back to debate and ask for it the Basque Government's lehendakari himself. Here, too, we have the power to carry out a series of legal reforms that are in line with suppressing the outbursts that some of us or all of us enjoy. That is why he asked the lehendakari about the purposes of this government to also push from Euskadi the suppression of the anachronistic institution of drilling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, indeed, as you have rightly pointed out, this is not the first time that the debate on drilling in this House is being addressed. This is, at least, the fourth time in this Parliament that this debate takes place. The first time, you made reference to it, was June 6, 2014, almost two years ago. On that occasion, not only did he not succeed in taking forward his initiative, which was only supported by his vote, but a different resolution was drawn up alternately, starting from an amendment recorded by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which was aimed at opening a process of examination, reflection and adequacy of the system of guarantees of public office and its limits. A few days later, you were asking in a control session like the current one a question to the lehendakari in the same direction, and the lehendakari gave you his opinion regarding the figure of the hanging, nothing favorable to it and nothing committed to its defense either. What he did say concluding his speech was that he was in favour, indeed, of opening as soon as possible in this House that process of examination, reflection and adequacy which the House itself approved for itself. Then, after the summer, in September, he recorded an inquiry that was debated in November, on 17 November, in this House, on identical conceptual bases and from the same political approaches. I had the honour of giving an answer to that question, then I will refer to the idea that I have left of what it was, of what the debate gave of itself. Immediately after the inquiry, you register a motion, which you withdrew without subjecting to the House's debate and vote. In February of this year, 2016 – during the year 2015 there have been no initiatives on this particular one – in February of 2016 he presented a new initiative, which he once again withdrew, and now again presents an inquiry that, as I see it, rests on the same political approaches and on identical conceptual bases to which the initiatives of the year 2014 have inspired or inspired. With this background, of course, I am prepared to acknowledge to you the merit of being the person who has promoted the debate on drilling in this House. It is clear that if you had not done so, most probably the House would not have attended that debate, it would probably not have taken place the debate on drilling in this House, if it had not been on its own initiative. Now, immediately after that, let me put a but to what I have just said. It is true that you have brought the debate to the House and it is also true that you have done so, albeit intermittently, with praiseworthy insistence and tenacity; but it is no less true that you have done so more as a chronicler than as a parliamentarian. Allow me to use the expression, and I will clarify it immediately. Because you have promoted a debate here, and a critical debate, in relation to the institution of forging, you have done so; you have sought the opinion of all the parliamentary groups; you have forced the positions of the parliamentary groups, because you have put to the vote perfectly formulated initiatives; you have also sought the opinion of the Basque Government, but yet you have not done something that you may not have done, which is to present an initiative directly aimed at promoting, to promote the legislative reforms that are necessary to remove the figure of forging. This could have been done by presenting proposals for legislation, legislative initiatives, legislative initiatives aimed at amending the Constitution, amending statutes of autonomy, amending the Organic Law of the Judiciary and the other rules that enshrine the institution of the execution, and yet it has not done so. It has been limited to observing, encouraging the debate, promoting the debate, seeking the views of the parliamentary groups and the Government, but this initiative that it lacked to truly implement, using its powers as a parliamentarian, the initiative recorded as such to promote such legislative reforms, has not presented it. He has therefore acted more as a chronicler than as a parliamentarian. I have reviewed the debate that took place in 2014, the November debate, and I have found that we then pooled virtually everything that gives rise to the debate on suffocation in the times ahead. And besides, it has given me the feeling that we had a high degree of coincidence. I didn't stand up for strangulation at any time, no. I have tried, not only to refer to the origins of the suffering, to its legal treatment, to its political and legal meaning, to which it has historically been attributed, but also, as I have seen, to the position that the Constitutional Court has been maintaining in relation to this figure. I have tried to highlight what is positive and how much it is disturbing, pathological and negative, not only from the point of view of consecrating inequalities, but also from the point of view of how negative the fact that the double instance in the criminal field is not at all clear or, at times, simply eliminated. We made reference to all that. I have seen that their approaches from now on are basically coincident with those of then. I hope that... I welcome your magnanimity to excuse me from repeating now everything I said then. I refer in full to what I said on that occasion, because the reflections that I formulated at the time are basically the same as I would defend now, and since they are said and collected in the sitting paper, for I am not going to insist now on repeating them, a repetition that would surely be tedious and would not contribute anything to the debate. But, however, there are four questions I said then, which I then pronounced and which I do not want to stop repeating now at this time, four. First, the settlement, as recognized in the Spanish legal system, is embodied in rules, whose reform, whose derogation is not within the reach of this Government. The inquiry is addressed to the Government, but, of course, those rules that enshrine the legal status of the settlement are not government decrees that the council can modify any Tuesday, when it meets in Lehendakaritza, no. These rules are the Constitution, the statutes of autonomy, are the Organic Law on the Judiciary, the Law on State Security Bodies and Forces, and other laws enacted by the General Courts, the amendment of which is not in the hands of the Government. Secondly, in order to promote and promote the modification or denial of these rules, which enshrine the legal status or institution of settlement, no competition is required, not even the participation of the Basque Government. This House can do it itself, a parliamentary group can do it, you can do it yourself, presenting – as I have mentioned before – an initiative to put in place the mechanisms for amending these legal rules, which can be promoted by this Parliament itself. You can do so, without going any further, and in this regard, because it does not make much sense that the Basque Government's competition is inevitably required. Thirdly, the Basque Government is not in any way in favour of maintaining this legal status. I believe that the lehendakari in the question that you asked him in June 2014 was clear in that regard and I am even clearer if it fits in the inquiry. The government does not defend this figure too much, it is in favour of the opening of this reflection by which this House voted in the agreement it adopted in June 2014. It is in favour of that debate taking place in this House and in other forums, but, of course, it does not in any way defend the figure of afforestation, it has not been held at any time and it has not at any time opposed, moreover, to the processing of a single initiative aimed at achieving that objective. I recall that in the inquiry he was aware of a draft draft reform of the Organic Law of the Judiciary that had circulated at that time among the Autonomous Communities, a draft to which we as the Basque Government made a great deal of allegations, we put a great deal of objection, but at no time did we object to the fact that the draft proposed the elimination of a large part of the embargoes recognized in our legal system. And fourthly and lastly, the Basque Government, the lehendakari and the councillors that we make up the cabinet, we do not enjoy a particularly privileged regime of restraint. It's not like you said it. I mean, I don't want the idea that we're defending something that special privileges us. The civil service of the Autonomous Community is covered by articles 26.6 and 32.2 of the Statute; 26.6 refers to parliamentarians, 75 sitting in the House, and 32.2 refers to lehendakari and members of the Government. And both rules, they're a calc of each other, they're set in exactly the same terms. Therefore, the drilling is exactly the same. That said, well, since this House approved in June 2014 its willingness to initiate a process of reflection, study and adequacy of this legal figure, the Government in this regard is waiting for the House to reach some conclusion. Since the House decided that it would address this reflection, the Basque Government listens carefully, waits attentively and, as soon as the House is delivered, will act in the terms required by the House. Otherwise, you know what our position is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u42	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u43	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Erkoreka, I am a politician rather than a chronicler. Do you know what is the greatest success of all the people involved in politics? That, with arguments maintained over time and strongly defended, it will be able to change the political position of the rest of the political groups. That's an extraordinary success. Because I remember perfectly here, how the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, who is no longer here, and who is on the General Councils of Bizkaia, strongly and clearly defended the figure of the hanging. That was the case, the parliamentary group of the Nationalist Party in this House advocated in a first debate with clear force the suffocation. And the success of this humble public servant is that there may have been some groups that have changed their minds over the past few years. And this is a success of UPyD that you have to recognize, therefore, this is political. I'm not a chronicler. I get wet, I raise debates, I repeat... Indeed. You tell me that the lehendakari at the time gave his opinion and that you are waiting for what legal reforms we are proposing. You can also raise them, so much so that you talk about reforming the Statute of Gernika. Look, the reform of the Gernika Statute can be considered, for example, in order to suppress suffocation, because they only talk about reforming the Statute in order to move towards nationalism and independence. The reform can also be aimed at eliminating the form of suffocation. What I want to know is whether you are actually willing to undertake all the legal reforms that are necessary to suppress the outbursts. I'm not content with you saying to me, "We're not in favor of strangulation. We only say or summarize the things that have happened in recent years." No, no, I would like to know whether the Basque Government would be prepared to push through all the legal reforms that are necessary to suppress the outburst. I think it's an important matter. I say, in any case, that the Basque Nationalist Party in this House, like the rest of the groups, voted against that initiative put forward by UPyD and, in addition, I was accused of demagogy and anti-politics. This is the reality of the facts. The truth is that we have nothing more and nothing less than 10,000 people in Spain. In other countries around us there are 10, 2, 1 or none, in Spain 10,000. Almost all of us are caught up, or rather privileged: parliamentarians and senators, autonomous parliamentarians, autonomous presidents, members of the Basque Government, juntas, the members of the judiciary, the judges of the Supreme Court and the National Court, the President of the High Court of Justice, the district prosecutors of the Supreme Court and the National Court, the Ombudsman, his deputies, the advisers of the Court of Auditors, the Council of State, the army generals, the admirals, the Togado prosecutor, the defenders of the Autonomous People and the members of the National Police, the Civil Guard, the Autonomous Police and even the local police. Some went to the Supreme Court, others to the higher courts of justice and others to provincial hearings. Of course, those who cause the most shambles in public opinion are the shambles that belong to public representatives, this must be deleted, because it is a privilege and because it breaks equality. It is a measure of regeneration of democracy. This is what I propose, this is my political activity: trying to put forward arguments to try to convince the rest of the groups and try to direct this Government or the Government of Spain to take a number of measures. Obviously, a single parliamentarian cannot put forward all the legal reforms that would be necessary to change this institution, but he does have an obligation to open that debate and, above all, to win that debate with arguments. We are going to put forward a motion to urge the Basque Government and the Government of Spain to push for all the legal reforms that are necessary to suppress the institution of drilling. Let us see if some of the groups have actually changed their minds in recent years and these steps can be taken. I think so, but, in any case, you say, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Erkoreka, whether you would be in favour of furthering those reforms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u45	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, I have had the impression from the outset that what you wanted with your initiatives in relation to drilling was not so much to suppress drilling as to leave public record and, above all, to convey to the media, the image that you are against drilling. Yes, yes, because when I opposed the columnist to the MP, I didn't do it with the politician. My words are slightly touched, I have opposed it to the Member of Parliament. Parliament is like this: Parliament is about to generate debates, but it is also about presenting initiatives. You have a number of powers that recognize you in the Rules of Procedure of the House to present initiatives for regulatory reform. You tell us "I am in favour of amending these rules, of removing these institutions that appear in the legal order", and yet you have at your hand an effective instrument to make that possible – you can present regulatory reform initiatives here in the House, and subject them to debate and consideration by the House – you can do so, however, you do not. Why? Because what you want, simply, is to convey the image to the public, to the media, the idea that you are against stifling. But in reality, do not act firmly and use all the mechanisms within its power to work for the suppression of suffocation. That is the curious disjunctive that I wanted to highlight in my first speech. That is what draws attention, on the other hand, to your attitude in the House, which is true of the fact that it is repetitive in the approach of the debate here in the House. But once again it tells us that what it is going to propose in an initiative that urges the central Government and the Basque Government to undertake all the legislative reforms or all the actions that are necessary to carry out those reforms. But that is the same one that submitted to the House in June 2014. I mean, two years later it comes with exactly the same thing. He then tells me that here the parliamentary groups have evolved according to their influence or their ability to persuade. Well, I am not going to give an account and reason for what the parliamentary groups are doing, but what I can tell you is that the position of this Basque Government in relation to suffocation, every time we have had the opportunity to pronounce on it at the request of itself or of third parties, both when the lehendakari has been pronounced and when I or any of the other advisers who make up the Cabinet – if any one has had the opportunity to pronounce on these issues, which I do not know – we have always been clearly critical of the figure and at no time have we defended it and have been in favour of supporting the reflection processes that may arise in all the forums that have been held and because they are in view of proposing its reform, revision or suppression. That is what this House promised to do in June 2014. You will understand that, having agreed in this House on the commitment to initiate a process of reflection around this figure, the Government now reminds you that the House has committed itself to initiating a process of these characteristics, and that it is now telling you that it is waiting for the House to reach a conclusion, so it has its logic. You will understand that it has its logic, especially when it comes to an initiative that has to be taken from this House. It is this House that should, in its case, put in place the regulatory reform procedures that can lead to the abolition of the form of afforestation in all the legal rules in which it appears. From here it can be done perfectly. You, without going any further, and without the support of the competition or the support of the Government, can do so without further consideration. Do so, act as a parliamentarian, activate the mechanisms that the Rules of Procedure make available to you, do not hide once again in that generic debate that you pose and the influence you exert on the opinions of the rest of the parliamentary groups. All right, we recognize him, we applaud him. You are tenacious in your approaches, but you act as a parliamentarian, act on the mechanisms of the regulation, which you can do. Then we will see whether this is really possible and then you will be able to see what the attitude of the Basque Government is in this respect, because a proposal for a law submitted by a parliamentary group always has a criterion, that is, the favourable or unfavourable approach of the Government is envisaged in the procedure. The government will decide – have no doubt – on that initiative that you will present, which I have no doubt that you will do as a parliamentarian and not as a columnist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u46	Thank you, Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpolation, made by the members of the President Barbadillo EH Collectors, on the measures of reversing the reforming strategy of the State." Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u47	Good morning, everyone. In the first place, my last session is here in the legislature, and I would like to ask the lady-at-arms to greet the parliamentary and the members of the law. You know recently that I was judged, and I don't ask anybody to agree with me or accept me, but at least to try to understand. I want to remember, nine years ago, when they arrested me, that we were in a different situation in the Basque Country, that we were on another political stage, and that political scene, I'd say, was totally fucked up. In theory, and this was the case with violence, and politics were reduced to a total limits, and civil and political rights were likewise exposed to danger. We, me and other members, saw our political project as well as our political independent and left-on-hand project in the danger of Theban, and the civil and political rights of all the citizens. That's why we decided to continue our political activities, knowing what he was doing, knowing that we'd go to jail. Luckily, we're on another political stage and I want to believe that we've done something, that we've helped to build this political stage, this political stage that's better for all of us. The circumstances have changed, the political scenario has changed, and we want, at least, to help consolidate a scenario of peace and coexistence that I believe we are helping, which we are helping to create those who have recently been judged. In that regard, I believe that peace and democratic coexistence, in order for them to be truly, must be for all and for all, and I deeply regret that this can no longer be a reality, because I know that many, too many people are missing, as a result of the different violence we have suffered, and I am very clear that we owe all those people our memory, recognition and reparation. And I believe that our political attitude has to serve as much as possible, in order to try to alleviate the suffering that has caused them, which produces them, the absence of their loved ones. The worst thing about that political scenario in which we live is that we dehumanize the adversary, we take away the category of person, their human rights are no longer essential, and so we dehumanize ourselves too. I believe that this is precisely what must never happen again, and on that basis, on the basis of respect for the human rights of all people, it is on which we want to build a country for all and for all. We and we, who are on that bench, want to build a Basque state, because we understand that it is an instrument, certainly the best we know, to meet the economic, social and cultural needs of our citizens. That Basque state can only be built on those pillars. For the last few days, I must say, I have been partly the victim of an injustice, but on the other hand, I am very glad that I have acquired great solidarity and protection. And I want to thank you for all those support and solidarity. In the first place, I want to thank you, and on the other hand, I want to give you the support I have received, as a basis, to create new political relations, even in the parliament. I am happy, I am satisfied with all the solidarity that I have received, some of which has been more explicit, some of which has been more implicit, all of which I thank, and I would like to place that solidarity, to give it as a basis for creating new political relations in this very Parliament. And to be more explicit, I think it's time to create a new political relationship between the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu. We are different, of course, we have opposing approaches on many issues, but these two political forces are called to make important country agreements. And not doing so would be completely irresponsible. I also believe that we have spoken and agreed on health, education, housing, fracking... But I think it is time to bring that relationship to another level, to a more political level, in the sense that what is already happening on the street, between those who sympathize with each other, here too, between us, we have to start doing so, because we must not only cover it, but also push it forward. We must normalize political relations, we must normalize politics in Euskal Herria in every sense. In that sense, I used to say that peace and democratic coexistence must be for all and for all. I would like that, in order for it to be for all and for all, there would also have to be those who are missing, the prisoners and the Basque prisoners. Only peace will be true, we can only close this chapter when all of us are; and I would like to think that the step that some of us have taken in the courts can also serve to open the prison doors some day, sooner than later. Amaitzeko, amaitzeko Bakarrik gogoratu nahi dut gaur hemen ez dagoen personona bat: Arantza Quiroga andrea. Some will think it was a hypertactic play, thinking that we weren't going to get in, and that in the end they went wrong. I want to think that Arantza Quiroga's attitude, and I am not saying it with intent to harm anyone, was a sincere and honest attitude – I want to believe – to try the dialogue between the farthest parts of this House, understanding that this would finally be possible for the political dialogue between all of us. I'm staying with that too, and I'm taking that with me too, I think it's a good thing. I just want to say hello. I want to think and I want to believe that what we haven't done for the last four years or that we didn't get, maybe you'll get it for the next four years and that's what I want you to do. So everyone who loves you, who loves you, who we love, until soon. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u48	Thank you, Mr. Ray. You're not here, but, well, I'll even say hello to you from here and in your new career so you'll be lucky. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to answer some things he said, or at least I'd like to explain my judgment too. Mr Arraiz spoke about civil and political rights, in relation to the different scenarios that have existed before and the current scenario. He has talked about helping to consolidate a scenario of peace and coexistence, and I also want to finish this intervention, in his absence, but also dedicated to him, and also to the parliamentary group EH Bildu, with a reference to peace and coexistence. And it is that despite the fact that at the time you rejected it head-on, years later you came to recognize the usefulness of the Ajuria Enea Agreement and even tried to rescue it; this very legislature has invoked it in this House. The passage of time really has an inexorable power, also in terms of peace and coexistence, and I say this to you because we are in time to seize opportunities that are in our hands, in time not to let more trains pass to those mentioned by Mr Arraiz. He referred to the dehumanization of the adversary as a strategy that has been followed, to the necessary respect for the human rights of all people at all times. And one of the trains I want to refer to is the ethical floor. The value of the ethical soil content is not the same at the beginning or at the end of the legislature. The passage of time and the perspective of reality have demonstrated the usefulness of that agreement. I invite all of you to read the text of the ethical soil, and you will see that your political reading varies in the context of 2012 or 2016, in the light of everything that has happened and what has not happened, in the light of what is happening and is not happening, in the light of your agreements of conformity at the National Audience and the social changes that are taking place. And if you read it, you will see that ethical soil is a good starting point for getting out of paralysis and immobilism. And the text of the ethical soil, which says "peace and future coexistence require the recognition of the injustice of violence, the recognition of the damage caused and the dignity of all victims, all of whom deserve the right to truth, justice and recovery", is a basic principle. And I reaffirm that we are in time to prevent in a few years' time from seeing this ethical soil as the umpteenth lost train, we are in time in this legislature to reach an agreement on the parliamentary presentation of peace and coexistence. It is never too late for a consensus to lay the foundations for a multi-party dialogue and agreement on future coexistence in Euskadi. And that is why I intend to take advantage of the opportunity that has not yet been lost; I propose to expressly ratify the literality and spirit of the quoted text of the ethical soil, to leave open to our society a certain hope of the shared construction of a country and coexistence. The lord Arry has formed a scheme for building an euscal State, and has spoken of the alliances of the country or country for this purpose. I think we have a chance that the auto-organity team has built a path to so many agreements, and there's a chance in your hands, too, if it's also in the hands of the Basque People, in the document where the Euskal Rascal Autogé is based on the contract. Here we propose a nine-point statement: The common principles, the establishment of auto-generacy, the realization of the principle of democracy and legality, the historical rights and the Basque people, the power fund and economy, the European Union and the relationship system, the political institutional relationship between the Spanish State and the Basques, and the right to decide. And when all these things are brought together, there is a compact composed of sum-makers and multiplicitys for the attainment of them. There's our chance. I would tell the gentleman personally what I had said to him yesterday: he has mentioned his condition, and we wish him to wish him the best at the beginning of this new stage, and wish him to wish him good. With this, I would like to say: I admit that his condition is pitiful, but I must confess that I think the agreement he has made seems appropriate to me. A new strategy has been decided on the patriotic left, positive to admit self-critic, and to confess the pain it caused, I think it's indispensable and proper to move forward in our co-operation and to build a new future. And that is why, although he is not present at this time in the Chamber, but I am sure he will be listening to me, and if you and yourself can, you will be able to convey to him what I want to say, as I had the opportunity to express to him personally yesterday, and that is that I regret your personal situation, I understand your reflections and I want to acknowledge the significance of the agreement of conformity that you have reached. You have opened a new stage and I want to put it in value. It is positive to assume self-criticism, accept individual prison benefits and acknowledge the unfair damage caused. It is necessary and positive. Mr. Arraiz is starting a new stage. I wish you the best in this situation that you must face. And I am convinced that we will again agree in the work on the values and principles of normalization of coexistence in Euskadi. I hope so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Yeah? Mr. Sémper.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u51	President, by allusions. This parliamentary group wants to show you our disconformity, our anger and our concern for the constant and continuous alteration of the Rules of Procedure of this House. We understand, because it is not new, and we also understand that it is a good practice, that parliamentarians who will no longer be able to say goodbye to the House. That seems reasonable to us. What seems to us to be an authentic shame, a democratic shame, is that item seven on the agenda, which was supposed to deal with the re-centralizing strategy, has become a sort of panegyric about Together for the Basque Yes. This is not reasonable, Madam President. We think it's a democratic shame this round the wheel. We believe that the future of Euskadi must be built, of course, with effort, generosity, but with memory, and what cannot be, what is unacceptable from a democratic point of view, is that this House has attended a political rally of Together for the Basque Yes, has attended a applause to which Justice has condemned for belonging to a terrorist gang. We will hardly be able to build a future in this society of understanding and coexistence when both the criteria are altered and for those who have recognized belonging to a terrorist gang to come out with applause in the end. One thing is that we make efforts to live together and look to the future with hope and illusion, and another is that we are taken as idiots. And that is where this parliamentary group is not going to happen, Madam President. And it's not the first time it's happened. I ask for rigour in the application of the Rules of Procedure, and I ask this House, too, and all Members of Parliament, not to applaud and not to exalt themselves as heroes to those who have recognized belonging to a terrorist gang. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u52	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. I apply my command as much as I can. You said, the congressmen here, when they're their last plone, have a word. Each one leaves himself as he pleases, and to-day, well, he is dismissed as Mr. Arriz thought. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question of Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the member of the U.UPyD team to the president, the Child and First Education Member in UUPV/EHU, to demand a support in his Spanish degree." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u53	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I wanted to ask him for a political favor or make a demand, rather. I would like to ask you, Madam President of the House, to strictly comply with and enforce the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, which you have been rejecting since the beginning of this parliamentary term, which I find absolutely unacceptable. It does not comply with the House's Rules of Procedure in virtually no conflict that could have occurred. That on the one hand. Madam President, I would also like to say that I find it unacceptable that you have allowed an ex-member of a terrorist gang to give a political rally with impunity, and I find it regrettable – and this is already addressed directly to the parliamentarians who applauded you – that I find it regrettable that you applauded a person who was a member of a terrorist gang, who still does not ask for forgiveness and who still does not condemn ETA's terrorist activities. This, of course, Madam President, has become absolutely regrettable again. It is repeated over time, and you, rather than holding debates or directing them, are making yourself available to certain nationalist groups in this House. And having said that, I give the question as to whether it has been done.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u54	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In the end, Mrs. Uriart, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u55	Mr. President, Mr. President, boarders, members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Maniro, the condition of the language you speak of is not something invented by UPV/EHU, but the request imposed by the Ministry of Education. This activity, not only in Eukadin, but in the rest of the autonomys which contain two official languages. It's not even a new thing. This theme almost occurs every year. In 2011, for instance, he lived in a very similar state. In any case, students know (or at least should know) what learning plan is, and what languages they have chosen. The public is perfectly public that in this degree it is taught in Spanish, eucalyptic, and English. That information is precisely mentioned on the website. Mr Maneiro, plurilingualism is today a necessity in the grades of Magisterium. A necessity not only because this is required by the above-mentioned order, but also because a teaching person must have knowledge of the languages, just as he must have knowledge of the new technologies. It is a current and future social need. It cannot be that we are advocating a multilingual model and that the preparation of future teaching professionals is not adapted to the requirements of that model. I therefore sincerely believe that this is not about linguistic discrimination, but about the necessary and logical adaptation to the demands of today's society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u57	Yes, thank you. Well, I think it's just the opposite. It seems to me that we are faced with linguistic discrimination that makes no sense. There are already lines to obtain the title of Early Childhood and Primary Education in Basque, so what is the point of offering a so-called Spanish degree, when they then force these students to have minimal knowledge in Basque, to overcome subjects with a certain number of credits in Basque. If, in fact, those people who are studying there may later not be going to give classes in Euskadi, therefore, they will not need the Basque at all. We therefore understand that we are dealing with a case of linguistic discrimination and linguistic imposition. The only sense is to discriminate against those who have not wanted or been able to study in Basque. There is no other justification. They do not want teachers who study in Spanish, they do not want free people who choose freely in which language they want to study, they do not want students who do not follow their exclusive dictates to pointy feet. It is the sectarianism of nationalism of all life, and before that sectarianism I claim freedom and universality. Freedom and universality, so that everyone can study freely in the language he or she considers, and from there seek his or her own professional and vital future. Although I already understand that nationalism is contrary to any kind of freedom ultimately and, of course, contrary to linguistic freedom. You who defend so much the right of the Basques to be able to relate in Basque and to develop their life in that language, which we obviously share, have no packaging when it comes to restricting the linguistic freedom of the Spanish-speaking people, or to justify it for high reasons. They do not care that there are hundreds of Basque students who have to leave Euskadi in order to study in their native language. It is no excuse that future teachers who go to work in Euskadi will have to teach in Basque. Who are you to decide this? Many of them will teach outside the Basque Country and therefore will not need the Basque language. They must also be given the possibility that they can study perfectly in Spanish. What is the problem with guaranteeing language freedom, people's freedom? It is, in our view, an absolutely undemocratic attitude, anchored in the past, that has no justification whatsoever. I show my solidarity with all those students of the Magisterium who see their freedom being curtailed at this time, and my support for the demand they have submitted to the UPV, my solidarity with those who have already had to leave to study in their language, my solidarity, too, with all the public employees who face the same obstacles as these students and with all the health personnel who have difficulty in choosing a place for not knowing Basque. Our solidarity with all those who are in one way or another being harmed, discriminated against and excluded by not knowing Basque, with all the citizens who have not doubled to the linguistic imposition of this Government. Madam Counsellor, before anything else is freedom, the freedom of citizens. We can't stop her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u58	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u59	Mr. Maneiro, collecting your last words, first of all freedom, the students have been free to choose their studies and where they have studied. They knew perfectly well what the curriculum was, as I told you before, and what languages are; therefore, they have made the decision, it is not a decision imposed. I don't think that when you're talking, it's just, like, a distraction. It would be a disseminator if we didn't know who wants to go into the Baby or First Education, if we left him outside. That would be a designer, but it doesn't happen at the Basque Country University. EHU accepts all the students who are under the required conditions, and the level of the eucalyptus is not an exception, but the university has a great deal of difficulty in the level of language required for all the students to succeed. At the beginning of the course an evaluation is carried out in order to offer each student a personalized diagnosis of their linguistic competence. In addition, it is offered the support of an academic mentorship and consultancy that can guide you on how to improve it. At the same time, an intensive training system is organised which offers the possibility of giving a significant boost to the communicative competence of pupils in Basque. All this is not in the spirit of discriminating against those who do not know Basque, but in the spirit of helping them to learn it and that they may be more likely to join the teaching field in the Basque Autonomous Community. Mr. Maneiro, we live in Basque, and we have two official languages. That's our clear, round-eyed reality. Considering this fact, UPV-EHU must take the responsibility of preparing future teachers in our education system according to our wants and reality. I mean, they have to agree with the offer and petitions of teachers, and, as you know as well as I do, most of the students in Child and First Education are now studying in a D model. Hence it is that the professors of the future have a right to control themselves and to acquire a good degree in a foreign language.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The tenth point in the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-UPyD members of the staff have been made to the president about drinking alcoholics in the San Mames stadium." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u61	Thank you, President. I ask this question so that the Government can clarify how the situation is with regard to compliance with the Addictions Act in San Mamés. Surely the counselor will answer and will be able to clarify whether in fact there, too, in San Mamés, on the vip stage of San Mamés, is fulfilled the legality in force. It is not another my purpose, I can even remind you that I myself abstained from amending that Act of Additions for different reasons. But having said that, I understand that a law, once it comes into force, must apply to all citizens and there cannot be any kind of exclusion. And according to the news we have known, the truth is that on the vip stage of San Mamés alcoholic beverages are still being distributed before and after the official competition parties. That is to say, the current legality would be being violated, and I think I remember that the adviser himself recognized it a few days ago. We wanted to know, therefore, whether this is still the case and whether any action has been taken against Athletic for the clear violation of the Addictions Act that would have occurred in the last football matches. I say that I do not have any particular intention or intention or wish for the Athletic of Bilbao to be sanctioned, but I do want to see that, in the end, the lawfulness in force can be complied with in all areas and applicable to all, so that it can be shown that there are no first-class citizens in front of second-class citizens. How's the situation? Is the law already enforced in San Mamés? Do you get a big look? What steps are you going to take in case you're not doing it? And so on. These are the questions I wanted to ask you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u62	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mr. President, good morning to all of you. First, to state that the name of the law is not the Addictions Act, which was the one proposed by the Government, but that the name of the law, like many aspects of the law you know, was amended and approved by this Parliament and the name is the Integral Law on Addictions and Drugs. Secondly, with regard to your question, on the measures that have been taken or are going to be taken against one of the sports clubs, I would like to remind you that the objective of the law, of the preliminary draft that we have sent to this House and I understand that the objective of the law from which it came out of this House is not punitive. That is, he does not intend to act against anyone. In spite of this, letters have been sent to the various sports entities, both professional and municipal, recalling the aspects of the law that directly affect them. The Basque Medical Department sent several letters to the club to remind her of what the law means about alcohol drinking around sports lessons. Mr. Maniro, this is not about being privileged or not being. And I'm sure you know, too. Having said that, as you know, in the last full monitoring session last May, I answered two questions in the same direction. I will repeat what I said then: The prohibition on the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages in the facilities where sporting competitions are held is the same for everyone and all those attending the sporting event, regardless of the location of their locality. And this isn't against anyone. It's for everyone. In the facilities where sports contests are performed, the prohibition to separate and sell alcoholic beverages is the same for everyone who goes to that sporting event. For this reason, our will is firm. The Basque Parliament has passed this new law, like any law, so that it can be enforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u65	Yes, thank you, counselor. The title of the law I already know. Thank you. And the content too. We do not support the amendment of the law, but I understand that when a law is passed, it has to apply. And then I ask you, if in fact also in San Mamés you are respecting the strict compliance of this law. That's the question. And in the event that it has not been met, as it seems, if some kind of sanction is to be imposed. You point out that the target is not punitive. Yes, but if there is any kind of non-compliance, I imagine the government will have to act. And therefore, the two questions are clear: Is the law in force, and specifically the Addictions Act, being violated in San Mamés? And in the event that this has been or continues to be the case, is the government going to do something? And in particular I ask you, what is he going to do or if he's going to sanction the football club? Here's the question. I already know that the laws they have as their objective are that they be complied with, that everyone comply with them and that no sanction should be imposed. But when there is, in this case, a football club that is not complying with the law, I understand that the government has to do something. And all this, I say, in defense above all of citizen equality, because I understand that there are thousands of Basque citizens who comply with laws that they do not like. As a result, and if anyone fails to comply with these laws, they are punished and punished. I hope this is the case for everyone. There can be no first-class citizens and second-class citizens, there can be no first-class organisations or second-class organisations. The law has to be the same for everyone. And so, those are the questions I ask you. If the law is already enforced in San Mamés, in particular on the vip stage; and if the law is not complied with or has not been complied with, the Government will do what and if it will impose some kind of sanction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u67	Mr. Maneiro. I think you have no doubt what the Basque Government is going to do and of course what the Department of Health is going to do. I think I've answered him before. But I repeat it again. You have the right to be interested in this subject, but you will also know that before the implementation of the Integral Law on Addictions and Drug Addictions, alcohol consumption in sports facilities was already expressly prohibited by the Law on Sport of the Basque Country, in its article 103, and by the Law against Violence, Racism, Xenophobia and Intolerance in Sport, in its article 4.1. I repeat: We will take all measures to ensure that the law is complied with. The aim of the Act is to protect the health of all persons, in particular by ensuring the health of minors and the most vulnerable groups. And I also said, in the last full of control, that at the beginning of the course of this new law it is normal that there is a period of adaptation since it affects deep-rooted customs and customs. It has already happened with the Anti-Tobacco Law in 2011 and fortunately the situation today is frankly good in meeting the objectives of the law. We are not going to cleave at what is the most opportune and least time to seek punitive punishment, but we are going to seek the purpose of the law. And that's where we're at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u68	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The eleventh subject on the subject list: "Eternation, Maria del Carmen lópez de Ocariz lópez de Muntaine, the member of the Popula team, made for the development of Economics and the chief department of competition, the strategy to promote the production and commercialization of the Eukacean cow. " Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u69	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Lehendakari, counselors. Madam Counsellor, I would like to ask you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party concerning the strategy for the production and marketing of beef produced in Euskadi, which you presented yourself on 2 May, that is, 18 days ago. We could say in the last minutes of the party's extension, because it is as public as it is if there were no general elections on 26 June, because this House would be dissolved by now, but still the People's Group believes that a strategy for the meat sector in Euskadi is needed. We also consider from the People's Group that this strategy was urgent a long time ago. Still, the People's Group before this announcement, and thinking that it is better late than never, we try to look at it objectively and see what it proposes. The first thing you see is the picture. The picture: Basque government and three deputies with their leadership positions. I mean, the bell ring of the Euzkadi Buru Batzar, we could say. It is HAZI in the photo and, indeed, it is in the photo, but I doubt very much that HAZI has contributed something to this document, which is the strategy we have, because, frankly, knowing the professions that are in HAZI in the meat sector, I do not see them doing this strategy. I think your model is another one. There are also trade unions, the sector and a slaughterhouse. Everyone in the photo has a specific item in the budget of the Basque Government. This is an objective fact. But we're moving forward. What is the aim of the strategy? The aim of the strategy is to advance the competitiveness of the Euskadi primary sector, linked to a strong food industry and sustainable marketing. Let us look at the objective of making progress in the competitiveness of the beef and veal sector. When we face a sector that, as the strategy itself says, is low productivity, that there is a structural deficit, that the price is stagnant. The strategy does not say so, but it is a reality, that the volume of non-payments to producers is rising, that there are more and more unorthodox practices in buying from the producer. If it is not a competitive sector, as the strategy itself says, what does progress in competitiveness mean? Does it mean that we ignore much of the livestock sector and bet on, as the first point of the great actions that this strategy marks, to encourage the activity of the weeds? Is that it? Facilitate the financing of the circulation, especially for the activation of barley. Another major action: Investment aid to encourage the production of meat on large farms. Measures to alleviate the lack of competitiveness of broilers. Yes, it is a strategy, but it is a strategy of measures to support the production of barley. The strategy says more: "The evolution of the slaughterhouse sector in the last ten years in the Basque Autonomous Community constitutes a weakness after the closure of Vitoria, Bilbao and Durango". To say that the slaughterhouse of Vitoria was closed more than ten years ago, quite more; in the last ten years Bilbao and Durango have been closed. I am not going to talk about Vitoria and Bilbao, because in them it coincides some negative element that coincides and that always wins, it is of those that always wins in the meat sector. If we talk about Durango, I have to say that it was a successful management model, against wind and tide, in spite of everything was successful, and there are the data, working with the traditional meat production model of Euskadi, paying competitive prices to the producer and serving the butcheries, promoting the meat of local origin. This model of success closed it to those who could not bear not knowing how to do it. In the photo only one slaughterhouse appears, and the question raised is where are the other five slaughterhouses in the Basque Autonomous Community. Why haven't you been consulted or informed? They say they will set up a working group to analyse the problem of slaughter infrastructures. If you've only consulted a slaughterhouse, I suppose this is the problem of a slaughterhouse. Is this strategy to solve the problem of a slaughterhouse? Is this the same one that was returned a few months ago by a cold meat truck to Holland, which was confiscated at the origin because the meat was unfit for consumption, that some Eusko Label technicians had already reported certain irregularities and that those complaints are probably in a drawer?, counselor. The strategy says that local meat is sold in butcheries and that they are in adjustment period. In addition, meat consumption is decreasing, they are in a phase of weakness, but they propose to create a new brand, to make the brand evolve, to expand the number of meat shops committed to the brand and can only sell meat from Basque slaughterhouses, regardless of the consumer's demand. It is not valued at all, and for this either we have the consumer's demand or we hire a magician to make these butcheries viable, because otherwise, they don't give the numbers. Madam Counsellor, this strategy is a project against the traditional meat sector of Euskadi. The farmers are outraged, the butchers are outraged, the slaughterhouses... I'd say they're yours, the ones you haven't been consulted. This strategy is a project to serve the large area meat produced in barley and sacrificed in a concrete slaughterhouse, counselor. This strategy, we consider from the People's Group, is an unfair competition for the traditional beef sector in Euskadi. The traditional sector, the small sector, which has to exist, which is essential, Madam Counsellor. Counselor, why hasn't the butchers been talked to? Why haven't you talked to the producers? It has not been spoken, but they would not be outraged, it has not been spoken, counselor. You don't know anything about what you're counting here. Counselor, you can't do lab strategies. Strategies need to be made thinking about reality. That's the important thing. The traditional beef sector in Euskadi has to exist, because it fulfils essential functions, that if it does not do so the meat sector will not be able to do so. Madam Councilwoman, they agreed on the meat sector at the end of the parliamentary term and they agreed only on some exclusive project, not on the traditional sector. And the traditional sector, I repeat, is essential.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u70	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. In reply, Mrs. Tapia is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u71	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mrs López de Ocariz, as you say, last May, day 2, in particular, we presented the main bases of the strategy to boost the production and marketing of beef in Euskadi. A work that has been carried out for a long time and that we have managed to set in motion now, agree now. Close work between the Basque Government, the outlaws, the sectoral organizations, such as Harakai-Urkaiko and Gitxegi, the Enba, EHNE and UAGA unions, and the meat producers themselves, which to have against and outraged as you say, are quite in agreement with everything that has been done. And if we have just been slow to bring the strategy, it is in the search for that agreement. But I do not say it, last May 15th, the day of St. Isidro, in Respaldiza had the opportunity, the lehendakari is not at the moment, but it had the opportunity to meet first hand some producers who were there and who, of course, if they said something was that this strategy was needed and that it had to be put into effect. In order not to know it and to be against it, it seems that they were quite in favour. However, this strategy aims to revitalize and strengthen the entire value chain in this sector, which we believe has an important role in sustaining the rural world as a contribution to the Basque economy. This initiative is part of the policy that we have been developing in this Parliament, linked to the food industry, its strengthening and growth. You said that from the point of view of diagnosis it has not been sufficiently analysed; however, it is something that has been done, not only from the point of view of the sector, but from the demand of all those who come to different establishments. At the moment these people manage 85% of what is the territory of the Autonomous Community, as you well know, in all that is conservation of the environment, treatment of the landscape, as well as generation of wealth. The farms have a small size, they are not large, but they support this territory. And we have to consider that for two years now we have been witnessing a phenomenon in relation to the positioning of the local product in all the strategies of prioritization that we are carrying out, in the differentiation of distribution channels. And, analyzing where all this originates, we can observe that there is an increase in the sensitivity of society towards the local product, for how that local product is put into operation, what is the characteristic of production, if it is economically sustainable, but also environmentally sustainable. And we note, moreover, that the situation of beef cows, in the specific case we are dealing with, the consumer positively values the local origin of beef and is willing to pay a little more and consume meat that has grown here. Yes, ma'am, yes. That is an analysis, by the way, by HAZI, by the way, that has actively collaborated, as it could not be otherwise. Local production is also insufficient to meet the demand that is currently being produced. The producers themselves say so. There is a structural deficit due to the small number of cows we have and, in addition, to the low productivity of existing farms at the moment. The price of cattle sales is stagnant and the margin is negative at the moment, apart from the subsidies we are putting on the table. Local meat is sold mainly in butcher shops and these establishments need to be updated. The opportunity of sale through supermarkets and hypermarkets is also subject, in some way, to greater conditioning, to a very concrete control system that can be carried out on the local product. And the prices the consumer is willing to pay make it possible to obtain better margins than are currently being achieved. Taking all this into account, a much deeper analysis than what I have read to you, of course, and to correct the weaknesses detected, the HAZI foundation is the one who leads the strategy according to the government, yes, outlaws as well as the sector itself, starting with the butcheries and ending with the producers. With all of them, with all of them. Obviously, when any strategy is put in place, 100% of the producers and 100% of the distributors will not agree, as it is likely that when something is adopted in this House, it is usually strange that 100% of the parliamentarians agree, but that does not mean that there is not a sufficiently important consensus, as I have read it. And you tell me what other strategy the three unions, the merchants and the distributors agree on, you tell me what other strategy. Well, in this one, of course, they are. And they are willing to make a bet because this is a reality, to strengthen, moreover, the brand Euskal Okela, with the aim of having an effective tool in the defense of the producing and marketing sector of local meat, of Basque meat. We said that this is in addition to a multi-channel marketing strategy. Why do we say that? Because it segmentes the traditional market, the large distribution and the fourth and fifth range initiatives, that is, those that bring greater value, and it attacks each and every one of these aspects. But going back in some way to what you were saying, the main lines of work on which it has been agreed to develop concrete policies are four. On the one hand, encourage the production of beef, including the activation of barley; including, not as a priority objective. The creation of a working group to analyse the management of slaughter infrastructures, yes, slaughterhouses, some of which are municipal and others private, but which all have to contribute and it is necessary to analyse very well whether they are sufficient, if they are well located, under what conditions they are governed and so on. Thirdly, it would be a review of the slaughter canal scheme and the portion that goes to the consumer in the break-up room. And finally, to boost the traditional butcheries, as I said, with the launch of a co-branding of the canal. Each of these lines of work has different performances, which have already been agreed upon and which at this time it is up to implement. I dig deeper into each of them. In the first one, that is, in the one that deepens in the production of local meat, in some way it is advocated to adopt measures that allow the deseasonalization of production in order, on the one hand, to alleviate the losses and compensate for the lack of competitiveness that exist in many of our small farms, and that at that time allow us to fry beef – at certain times of the year, I insist – in order to adjust the production cycles to the demand, that the demand is exactly the same or very similar throughout the year. The determined support, moreover, for genetic improvement in farms with the aim that the results that are being obtained in farms improve, that meat fitness is better in our cabins and that we support ourselves for this in the testing centers that we already have. That measures be taken within the very concrete Rural Development Plan to support meat production and that they be encouraged. That measures be taken, as you said, to finance the circulation. Obviously, how are we not going to do it, with people who are making a bet to continue in those productions, in those farms that are not operational today and much less economically sustainable. We have to help them to do so. As for the slaughterhouse aspect, the second of the lines of action, we have observed that the evolution of slaughterhouses in the last 10 years has clearly been characterized by many closures – as you said, first Vitoria, then Bilbao and Durango – and they constitute an important weakness in the sector and we need to analyse what we have to do and how we are going to do it. But obviously not only as a government, but with all those involved. As far as certification systems are concerned, it is proposed to modify that certification system, which is currently used, based on weighing, above all, and to try to carry it out in a much stricter way through a genetic analysis that is already developed and that we can implement it. The technological evolution we have experienced in recent decades allows us to carry out DNA tests that guarantee the traceability of local meat and that allow us to guarantee that local meat is actually being sold. And finally, the new value project in what are the butcheries under the motto or under the Basque Label Harategiak brand. The traditional butcheries need modernization, of course, and they need us to help them and that the brand image, in some way, makes them feel much more comfortable and much more proud of what they are doing, to them and to the people who are going to buy it. Anyway, in the second round I'll go deeper on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u73	Madam Counsellor, for starters, tell me about the evolution of slaughterhouses. If only one slaughterhouse has been involved in this strategy, how do you know what the evolution of slaughterhouses is? The rest? You do not know it because you have not been consulted, nor what you think, nor what your future projection is, nor what your future strategy is. They haven't consulted with the rest. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, it is an evolution that you have deduced. But this strategy is made exclusively for a slaughterhouse, for a slaughterhouse that does not know how to do things or make the activity of sacrifice profitable. Because I have already told you before that there have been models of slaughterhouses that have been successful, because they have yielded positive results in management. But there are those who do not, do not give him the positive result, despite counting support from the budget of the nominative Basque Government every year, and he is unable to survive. And you can't make a strategy for a slaughterhouse to succeed because it's already proven you don't know how to do it. And you have to count on the others, counselor. I would therefore be grateful if you would look at the whole sector, not save a slaughterhouse and drown the rest, which is what you have always wanted. This type of project is something very old, so old that it is from the last century. So, Counsellor, let us let the primary sector work, let us work together, but let us not destroy what we have in the traditional sector. And you know that this strategy nullifies the traditional sector, because it's not a strategy for them, it's not a strategy for the little one. Because the little one has too much autonomy and bothers me, doesn't obey me. And you want a soft meat sector, submissive. That's what they want, but it's not like that, and look how they're trying and they fail once again, and they fail again, and now it's the third time, and that's how we keep going. And with public money, which then disappears, and in the end the one that goes uncollected is the farmer. Again and again a strategy for the meat sector. He's talking about HAZI, who's been involved. Look, I've known HAZI technicians for quite a few years, quite a few HAZI technicians in the meat sector for quite a few years. And I know what your model is, I know what you think, I know you wouldn't put anglicism in the text, because that's not common in the meat sector. That's not usual. Who made that text? Is that common in the meat sector? No, it's not usual. Therefore, counselor, that text distills many things that show that it is a strategy carried out in a laboratory, that the same does a strategy for meat as for the car. That is, so clearly, a short and stick to make a model for a concrete strategy: The barleys that produce me bring me to kill the meat and I put it in the line of the great surface. That's the strategy, you're not thinking about the little producer, counselor. And he said, "Look, they're in the picture." But how come they're not going to be in the picture! I also wonder what someone does in the photo when they are then against the production of barley. But they live on the budget of the Basque Government, they remain on the budget of the Basque Government. And of course, the Basque government has touched the horn and they're going to the picture. Of course! Sure! If this is all perfectly connected. This is very old, counselor, but very old. The truth is that you have returned to practice that we already thought you were forgotten, but you continue with that certain smell of naphthaline and recreate yourselves in the old, in the classic. No, ma'am, counselor. The truth is that after three and a half years in the department, with a meat sector in a critical situation, and that this document is sold as a success is very sad, counselor, very sad.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u75	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. What is very sad, Mrs López de Ocariz, is that as "it has always been done this way" and "it has always been done this way", you do not think that the meat sector, the people who work there are able to modernize, evolve, make different proposals and work differently. Because like "it's always been like this"... No, really, the sad thing is that, the old thing is that. We are going to look to the front, and indeed the whole sector, with the three main unions in this country, which are usually agreed on a few occasions and in this case they have agreed to implement this strategy, with four specific lines, with four specific lines of action. For what? Not to surrender or be submissive to the Basque Government. Please, we're a little older! The production sector is a little bigger and knows what it wants. Let's not underestimate it. To structure the sector and make it competitive. Just as it was done at the time in milk, and it has turned out very well, at the moment the meat needs it, demands it and has agreed to do so. You only talk to me about slaughterhouses. What about the rest of the stuff? The aspect of slaughterhouses is so important that the sector has asked to set up a specific table to analyse it. They have asked for it, and of course we will look into it. But you are not going to tell me that, because at a certain point someone consults for a specific thing, they know perfectly well what is happening in that sector, or on the contrary. We have a HAZI foundation, which you apparently know each and every one of the technicians, each and every one of them, and you know how they think perfectly; they are certainly qualified technicians, who know how to do analysis and who know what is going on in the sector. Don't despise them either. They know how to do this strategy perfectly and any other strategy we put on. And it's neither lab nor anything like that. It seems that what really hurts you is that there is a sector that has agreed. A sector that is made up of those people who produce various characteristics, with smaller farms, from the smallest to the largest, who want to highlight their sector, who want to value the marketing of that meat, who want to deseasonalize the situation, who want the butcheries also small, the traditional ones, to have product all year round; that those that we are going to buy, let us buy local meat. And that is done through a strategy of these characteristics, which has cost us a great deal, obviously not only the government, but also the HAZI Foundation and all those who have participated, the whole sector, because obviously, in order to bring the whole sector into line, we have to take into account many aspects, as you well know. And this does not come out of nothing, it comes out of the absolute agreement of these people, of all those people, with very different interests, because the producer is not the same as the marketer, and that of the small butchery is not the same interest as that of the distributor. And everyone is cared for and taken into account absolutely the entire value chain. And really, what makes me sad is that you're upset that there's a sector that's agreed. That's what's really sad right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 12th point in the theme list: "Interpology, members of the Basque Barrius Barrojka Group, made to the Chief of Economics and Companations of Economics, about the trial in the Eucomator's "The City Case." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u77	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Counsellor, advisers, ladies and gentlemen. Well, after the show this morning here, it gives the feeling of sterility trying to fix the country's problems. But well, let's try and talk about corporate failures, like Hiriko, fraudulent – presumed – bankruptcies, lost public money, ways to recover the damage caused, the responsibility of the Administration to recover what was wrongly granted, etc. I know it has to be hard that the things you conceive of, that you try to organize, and especially the things you get excited about, I know it's hard that when you collapse and fail, they hurt and you don't know very well how to react. And it may seem that this happens to the PNV and the Basque Government in relation to what was part of their projects and which came down. But one thing must be said, Mrs Tapia, that disappointment of the Basque Nationalist Party cannot be the disappointment of Basque society. And that is why action must be taken. This disappointment of the Basque Nationalist Party with its Epsilon and Hiriko projects cannot be left without real institutional response and in line with what is required. The Prosecutor's Office of Vitoria has just requested before the Commercial Court that the bankruptcy of Afypaida, Association for the Promotion and Promotion of Industrial and Sports Activities for Automotive, be declared fraudulent, as everyone knows, promoter of the Hiriko project. There are also the allegations of the State Attorney's Office regarding the qualification of the guilty competition. We're not going to talk about them. In order to recover the public money granted to the association – we already know the amounts – the prosecutor asks that appropriate measures be taken. In addition, he seeks disqualification, etc. The return of all the money granted... In this respect, we see it logical that the Basque Government should follow closely, as a particular accusation in a matter of mismanagement of public money, and that it should respond to the recommendations that have been made from different areas and that they required action to recover the lost money, all the lost money, all the money lost, received and mismanaged. Public money, everything that was part of that failed, failed business project. We must remember that the recommendations made to the Government in the Committee of Inquiry into Epsilon and Hiriko in this Parliament were clear and conclusive. The Basque Parliament was to urge the Basque Government to "formify the request for the repayment of the aid and subsidies granted to the Hiriko project". It was clear: there was talk of aid and subsidies granted to Afypaida, which were aid and subsidies that failed, which were not used. We also have to refer to the January 2016 audit report, where the Court of Auditors made an analysis of what was also granted by the Basque administration. And in the analysis it is very clear what the Court of Auditors of the State said in relation to the support from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. It begins at point 27, where it analyses the subsidies granted by the Basque Autonomous Community Administration and its dependent trading companies between 2010 and 2012 to the consortium led by Afypaida. It states: "In the 2010, 2011 and 2012 calls of the autonomous Etorgai programme to support the implementation of integrated industrial research and experimental development projects, the evaluation of the proposal submitted by the consortium, by the managing bodies, offers certain conclusions that significantly question the granting of the aid and exceed the maximum subsidy percentage provided for in Article 7.4 of the regulatory order". The Court of Auditors states: "With regard to the supporting documentation of the grant, the shortcomings identified in the analysis of the grants received by Epsilon Euskadi, SL of the Intek Berri initiative, can be extended without having been credited that the Department of Industry, Innovation, Trade and Tourism requires additional documentation and information, as was possible under the regulatory order. In addition, staff costs were based on declarations by the beneficiaries themselves, without adequate proof of their reality, and various partial charges of expenditure were made without determining the criterion or calculation for obtaining such a result, without the performance of the managing body in this respect". The monitoring report follows: "In the course of the evaluation process of the application submitted by the consortium to the Etorgai 2010 call for aid, seven of its members (with a 45 per cent share in the budget) left, despite this circumstance, the proposal of the evaluating body was favourable, which is not considered to be adequately substantiated. In particular, Article 4.6 of the order of 6 August 2008 was not complied with, indicating that the final assessment would take particular account of projects that were developed 'by balanced business consortia', this being aggravated by the absence' – once again "the absence" – of "request for documentation on the economic solvency of the participating entities to implement the projects". It continues: "The beneficiary company Microelectronica Máser did not proceed to the creation of the required guarantees". "From the documentation contained in the file, at least EUR 204 thousand is not properly justified." "In the 2011 call for Etorgai aid, Afypaida did not constitute the guarantees set out in Article 3.2 of Decree 698/1991 of 17 December. In addition, expenditure for 69 thousand euros was not adequately justified." We continue: "Basque Robot Wheels SL has not been documented to be aware of its tax obligations prior to the first payment of the 2011 annuality. On the other hand, in the absence of accreditation of the fulfilment of their obligations to Social Security...". It follows: "In the 2012 call for aid to Etorgai, neither Afypaida nor Basque Robot Wheels SL constituted the guarantees set out in Article 3.2 of Decree 698" mentioned above. "In addition, there is no – one more – presentation of justification for the overall implementation of the project, which is required on the regulatory basis prior to the last payment of the aid. On the other hand, expenditure amounting to EUR 9 thousand would not be eligible." It follows: "Afypaida and Basque Robot Wheels SL received 30 thousand euros each for support grants from the Ekintzaile programme, without the documentation in the file being deduced that the Hiriko project met the necessary conditions for obtaining aid established by the Board of Directors of SPRI SA... "On the other hand, the files did not include all the supporting documentation referred to in the previous agreement, or did not do so in the necessary detail. In addition, travel expenses amounting to 10 thousand euros were not accompanied by the essential explanation for their relationship to the project. In addition, expenditure amounting to EUR 38 thousand, carried out within the period granted by the executive committee of the programme, would have been incurred outside the period of support envisaged, if they had considered the beginning of the period to incur in this type of expenditure the date on which the whole of the project was made known to the Basque Administration, presenting itself to the Etorgai Programme". Counselor, a cluster of irregularities from the very beginning. To these must be added all the others, logically, this is the one that details the accounting or analysis aspects of the grants, but many more. In relation to solidity, the conclusions of certain analyses were already said, as are other official writings in relation to the proceedings opened in this case, alleged guilty contest... There is a need for action by the administrations, of all. In this case, we need to talk. We see that other administrations affected and involved in the public looting of resources are acting, but you have responsibility, you have responsibility to act and to see the responsibility of the administrators, to identify it, and of course, that responsibility makes it necessary to know how it is going to be achieved and what steps are being taken before the Justice, which has open procedures, and in relation to the return of all the public money delivered to what is allegedly a guilty bankruptcy, but in any case it has been a corporate failure based on public action. Let us see, in the part concerning the Basque Government, we have already seen some actions by other governments, but in the part concerning the Basque Government, what is the criterion or purpose in relation to the recovery of public money granted and lost. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u78	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Tapia, it's yours to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u79	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Barrio, we keep talking about the same things, even though we've explained them a thousand times. And thank you for reading the whole Court of Auditors report, which we already have and have read, but thank you very much. In any case, I do want to point out a couple of things because I say it, I repeat it and every time I come here talking about Hiriko I have to say it, and I repeat it again. The Hiriko project, in particular, is a non-business project; it is a project, as you well know, for the development of R & D & i, with very different conditions than the aid given in the case of an industrial development project, as you also know, because they are defined in a way that defines Europe and we apply them strictly. Having said that, we have also analysed, and I have analysed it in this forum on more than one occasion, and I believe that, on one occasion in detail, the grants for the years 2010, 11 and 12, what was requested, how it was assessed, what were the analyses of that evaluation, how the aid was implemented, how much was implemented in relation to what was originally envisaged in the concession, what was granted... By the way, what was requested for return in 2012 because it had not been fulfilled. That is detailed and you know it perfectly well, and it was also detailed in the committee of inquiry. Therefore, I will not repeat it, but I will remember it. You tell me you do us especially harm. I think the one who does the same especially harm is the one who was photographed with that car and was very proud of that project, and I don't think anyone failed. Because it was a research project that could have success stories, a research project that was developed. It is true that it failed, as its translation into a possible industrial development project into the future has certainly not had the expected success, and that is true. But the initial project, and that's why he got the Etorgai grants he got, was an R+D+i project, otherwise he wouldn't have got them. From there, too, as the conclusions of the committee of inquiry to which you referred, a series of actions were established which we had to carry out as a Government and which we have of course carried out. And I repeat them, I think 15 days ago I also commented on them in this rostrum, but I repeat them again. In the SPRI body where the programmes are managed, where analyses are made of the different rules for the management of R & D & i aid, in the so-called body for the evaluation of applications, where they are determined how to act on these applications, what we have done is to improve this unit, so that the work being done to study and evaluate the proposals in this evaluation body has been endowed with more people and is carried out in a more strict way, according to the latest regulations that come from Europe, or the latest recommendations, than not regulations. The evaluation procedure has therefore been improved. It has been strengthened with people and with monitoring and monitoring of all R & D & i support programmes, where they are technologically applied and industrially applied, giving the system an absolutely comprehensive nature, in line with European recommendations, an integrated monitoring and evaluation system. I said it here, too, and I repeat it. A system that allows a strict evaluation at the time of application of the project, that monitors the monitoring of the various phases of the project, that evaluates the end of the project and that after three years, that is, an ex post evaluation, evaluates the results, both in creating employment and in creating products or processes of added value, and that allows us, on the one hand, to have a complete X-ray of what has been done and, on the other hand, to be able to improve both the evaluation and the programmes themselves. Therefore, it is a truly new system and has been recognized. In addition, we have modified – as you well know – the decree of reorganization of the Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation, so that the way in which the fulfilment of all tasks entrusted to them is assessed is also more modern. And each and every R & D+i programme has been modified to adapt to the recommendations of the monitoring and evaluation system and monitoring is even stricter, more transparent and more objective. That is what the Committee of Inquiry's recommendations refer to. You tell me "apart from, what are you doing about the recovery of aid." Firstly, I would like to point out that, as early as 2012, in the face of a certain failure to comply with what should be such aid, a specific return of an economic item was already requested, because it did not comply with what had been achieved. But from the point of view of our characterization in different areas, I will tell you that the leadership of the contentious of the Basque Government is personified in three different procedures. First, in the pre-trial proceedings before the Court of Instruction No. 3 of Vitoria-Gasteiz, the criminal jurisdiction, following a motion adopted in this Parliament on 16 April 2015. In accordance with that motion, the Governing Council of 12 May 2015 agreed to intervene in the above-mentioned case. In compliance with that agreement, with the agreement of the Governing Council, the lawyer of the central legal services requests on 22 May 2015 to the court mentioned the characterization as injured by the General Administration of the Autonomous Community in the previous proceedings that had just been opened in the court we were talking about. Following the procedural processing of this request, the Basque Government has been present, has been personified and has taken part in the various proceedings that have taken place in the investigation, which are currently in progress. Secondly, we are also in the competition of creditors in the Court of Mercantile No. 1 of Vitoria-Gasteiz, in an instruction, in this case, civil and commercial. In accordance with the usual procedure, it was transmitted to the Directorate for Heritage and Procurement on 17 April 2015 that there was a tender for creditors opened before the Court of Trade No. 1 of Gasteiz in relation to the Afypaida association, and in addition, it was carried out to transfer the claims that according to the Accounting Service of the General Administration of the Autonomous Community the Basque Government had in that procedure. The lawyer of the central legal services was personified in the case and, on 21 April 2015, communicated to the administrator the claims outlined above, which I mentioned to him, which had been requested for repayment, amounting to about 37,000 euros, and which they have also found reflected in the list of creditors approved by that administrator on 13 June last year. In addition, by order received on 18 November 2015, the liquidation plan submitted by the competition manager is approved and a deadline is opened for, where appropriate, qualifying as guilty, as you said, such competition. Therefore, considering the financial amount of the credits we have submitted and following our usual procedure, the Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has never applied in a competition for which it is found guilty, we have not applied. In view of the Community's usual practice, the legal services consider this to be the case and, on the other hand, the amount for which we are in that competition, of course the claim, we do not consider it sufficient to make the request for a guilty tender. In any case, we will observe what is happening and of course we will attend to everything that happens. And there are also preliminary proceedings before the Court of Auditors, for a number of actions they consider important, and we will be there in person and we will analyse everything that is said. That is the action that the Basque Government has taken in accordance with the Hiriko project to which you referred. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u81	Thank you, President, thank you, Mrs Tapia. Let's see, we all knew, everyone knows that it is a business project and that it was sold as a business project and that in the current qualifications before the judges it appears as a business project, beyond the considerations of research and development and innovation that it could have. Of course, somehow you had to grab the funds you were going to feed on, but it was a business project for making, developing and building electric cars. It was a business project, and in that sense it has been a business failure, carried out with public money, right? Let's see, but what are you guys really gonna do in court proceedings? What are you going to claim from Hiriko's promoters? That has to tell us, really. 37,000 euros? And the rest of hundreds of thousands of euros that have been lost, what are they going to do? In other words, do you disagree with the actions of the Central Administration, which also granted money at the request of parliamentary negotiations with the Basque Nationalist Party? Are you disputing the allegations, the claims of the state's attorney, the central government, in relation to recovery, responsibilities and fraudulent bankruptcy? That sounds amazing, you've never asked for fraudulent bankruptcy, we don't have a habit, because one day you'll probably have to do it. In other words, there is no custom in the legal services of the house to request fraudulent bankruptcies. I don't know, is that a legal criterion, the one without custom? I don't know. Counselor, that has to support you a lot better. 37,000 euros, which we are talking about millions of euros. How do you rate those irregular, ill-founded trips, those useless purchases that were made, those salaries? How do you value relationships with companies like Denokinn, who has not justified anything of what he did? Does it not deserve an active presence in the courts, does it not deserve an attitude of truth, of achieving more, what we have asked you to achieve on other occasions, which is the return of what has been a failure in relation to the aid that was granted and that society is waiting for them to be claimed and achieved? And it's also that, we're not in a sort of "The process is over, the Hiriko case is over, and it seems that we have to conclude, we have to qualify a series of actions...". No, no. We are working to make it really clear what has happened and to return the money that has been wrongly delivered and that has not worked. Because we have to act clearly, we have to act clearly, and the Administration has to do so. And we have seen, in the relationship I read before, that I worked for the Court of Auditors. It was that there were no justifications, it was that everything was based on irregularity, on the lack of solidity, on the non-justifications, on the bad justifications. Well, that's where you have to clear up. And that is not the end, either, because new judicial investigations are already known, linked to the companies that have participated in the Hiriko case. We are now aware of the existence of other alleged irregularities, which affect other institutions, such as the Foral de Álava, in relations with companies closely linked to the Hiriko project, such as Denokinn. We're meeting him. There we need an attitude, Mrs Tapia, much more active. And of course, to think that the legal services of the Basque Government are capable of that and much more. That is to say, not to remain in the legal tradition in relation to the processes that are being instructed and not to ask for 37,000 euros of return, when what the Basque Government delivered are hundreds of thousands of euros. And also before, and Mr Erkoreka has done very well, to a parliamentary response from Mr Pastor, he has said, in relation to a case that is also in the courts and that he will soon have his trial, that "the public breach", that is what has guided his action, as the Basque Government. Well, that, Mrs Tapia, is what we demand of you, that that broken public guide your performance from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u82	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u83	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, starting at the beginning, Mr. Barrio. I do not disagree with the state attorney, and the central administration will know what it has to do, how it has assessed the aid it has granted and what follow-up it has done. We, as the government of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, from the SPRI unit were evaluated every year. And I insist, I'm not going to repeat what appeared in the evaluation. And the Court of Auditors assesses and makes a number of allegations. We maintain that the evaluations carried out in 2010, 2011 and 2012 with respect to the investigation to be carried out in that case, which was said to be being investigated, what was investigated and the results achieved were consistent with what was requested. 2.2 million euros. That was the help. Hundreds of thousands. EUR 2.2 million, exactly what this government has granted to this project. It has been requested to return what we consider to be misexecuted, according to the technical assessments. Now, you have no doubt that if the criminal procedure that is open demonstrates some other action that, of course, we have not been able to detect with the reports made, but if it does, we will have no doubt of requesting full return. To this day, it is not demonstrated and we do not observe it. Therefore, I do not disagree or cease to disagree with the General Administration of the State. They will know what they have to do with the around 15 million euros they requested, and they will know how they have done the follow-up. I can confirm what has been done in this Community, and specifically what has been done since SPRI. Fraudulent bankruptcy. I am not, of course, an expert in competition administration, but I was told by my fellow member of the Governing Council, who knows a little more about this subject than I do, which is precisely the competition administration and the prosecutor who applies for the designation of fraudulent bankruptcy. It is never, it has never been in any case, of course, from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, the creditor or any of the creditors. And it's neither tradition nor anything like that. It is done by the competition manager and, in his case, the prosecutor, because the competition manager is the one who attends to the interest of the creditor. But, well, you can discuss with the expert later on some other occasion. It is not by tradition or by style, but it is done by those who have to do it and have never done it, it is a procedure, it is valued and it is regulated in a certain way. I insist, clarity, clarity, transparency..., all that exists in the evaluation of the Hiriko project, which is an R & D project, which has not been translated into a business project, right. And that's where he failed. That's the failed project, not R & D. The failed project is to move R & D, make the translation to a business project. There's the bug. And it's true, that's where he failed. And where we need to get the system improved to do that follow-up, and that's what we've improved. But, I insist, clarity, clarity, transparency. Each and every report exists and is available, and has been made and made available, for all procedures. And let us not confuse the competition procedure with the criminal procedure, as has been done previously in the case of Epsilon, because the competition procedure is one thing, and the criminal procedure establishes the responsibilities and has established them in the case of Epsilon. Let us see and wait for what is going to happen in the open criminal procedure right now. And there we are, and we will follow up, obviously, as it cannot be otherwise. And if it is shown that there has been a breakdown, beyond what is assessed and defined by this government, you have no doubt, as Mr Erkoreka has said, that we will ask for the return to the last cent. But that is not what is currently assessed and assessed. We're going to wait for what criminal procedure is, and we're in character and we're going to be in both criminal proceedings and the competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The thirteenth point in the subject list is "to ask the question of the law enforcement of Economics in Natalia Rojo Sociala Sociaria Sociatalists for Economics, and the chief department of competitive Econsistence, not to explore the frackinga outside Euscadin and Euskade." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u85	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Counselors, Mrs. Tapia. The question raised by the Socialist Group today is a clear and concrete question, which should perhaps not even take place. You would probably have believed a few weeks ago that this subject was settled. I believe that we have discussed on countless occasions, in every possible format for Members of Parliament, but it seems that we have never finished being certain on this issue. On the one hand, we are faced with a law passed by the Basque Parliament, appealed by the central Government and suspended provisionally by the courts for at least five months. On the other hand, we have some statements of your own, Madam Counsellor, in which the impossibility of fracking which guaranteed the law, or which we wanted it to guarantee the law, has neither compromised nor compelled you. Studies have continued on a technique already discarded in Euskadi. It is not something we say, but it is something that you yourself uttered in a forum, in which, to a question raised by someone there, you said that, in fact, the studies had continued to be part of your department. But, on the other hand, which is the reason for this question, there is a parliamentary agreement signed by the party that supports the government, by the PNV, in which the no to fracking is finished, although, in fact, there was a disassociation between what was signed and what was then defended. Faced with this scenario of contradictions between speeches and facts, between spokesmen of the same party, we would like to raise the question that you already know. Are you going to fulfill the parliamentary mandate, that mandate that also speaks of the studies that you yourself recognized you have continued to do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u86	Thank you, Miss Rojo. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u87	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As you rightly say, Mrs Red, we have discussed it in all possible formats, but if we need to clarify it further... Obviously, as always, the Government to which I belong has duly responded to the obligation to fulfil the mandates emanating from this House. It has done so at the time of defending the law that came out of this House, at this time suspended in some terms as a result of the State's appeal. But you have no doubt that we will continue to defend that law, as it has emanated from this House, which is absolutely sovereign of deciding on those aspects that fall within its competence. Therefore, on the one hand, we will continue to defend that law that has emanated from this House until the last moment, and on the specific reference that you make, to what was adopted a few weeks ago, I do not know whether it was a week or two, of course you have no doubt that, as we have always done, this Executive will comply with what is required of you in this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u89	But, then, Mrs Tapia, once again we are faced with the contradiction. If you say that you are going to defend that law that this Parliament passed, although you initially did not agree, and you also say that because of your position, how can you not!, the Basque Executive is going to fulfil the parliamentary mandate, why do you continue to study the fracking technique, if the law passed by Parliament completely ruled out that technique? It is true that the Socialist Parliamentary Group also had doubts when, at the time of the presentation of the draft budget for the Basque Autonomous Community, you had indeed put in some budget line, through which you could continue to carry out research and which affected projects, not only in Euskadi, but a project specifically in Burgos, the Angosto project. Therefore, we would have no choice but to have blind faith in you, but it is that again and again we are led to doubt the word of the Government, because if you say that you are going to defend the law, but then you, with the law already passed, that has not yet been appealed, and therefore you were not suspended either cautiously or definitively any article, you have continued to study, when already the majority of this Basque House, I mean, that the majority of those we represent in this Parliament had said that this technique we do not want for Euskadi. If we do not want it for Euskadi, why do you continue to spend public money on something that we have already discarded all of you and that you undertake to accept even if you do not fully share it? It doesn't make any sense, it's continuing to invest money from the public coffers for something you're theoretically going to fulfill and you're never going to put into practice. And maybe that money, which is a lot, the money that goes into that is a lot, maybe it could go into R & D+i, research, other things that this Parliament would probably give you full support. But we cannot believe that the signature in an amendment is real, when the speech was totally the opposite, because Mr Carro defended the need to investigate the technique of fracking, at the same time saying that he would comply with the law. So, I don't know if we have any more formats left, but we must not be clear what the PNV is certainties. So, I'm asking you, are you going to continue your department doing studies? Exploitation and exploration not, because it does not allow, but studies, will they continue to do with public money?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u90	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u91	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I hope to clarify enough in this second speech what you were asking me, Mrs Red. I believe that I have commented on more than one occasion, within the 3E2020 strategy, which was adopted and which we are currently modifying, one of the parameters or one of the axes on which we are working and we continue to work from the Basque Energy Agency, is the transition to renewable energies, using, to move from fossil fuels absolutely to those renewable energies, the exploitation of gas. And you know it and you know it perfectly. Therefore, various studies have been carried out in various fields since the Euskadi Hydrocarbon Society. This does not mean that these studies refer to the use of fracking technique. Other techniques can be used and analysed if they are viable or not viable in certain areas and in certain places. Not using the fracking technique! It is clear, of course, that in this House it was also approved by, not an absolute majority, it was unanimously approved that the fracking technique will not be used either in the permissions of the Autonomous Community or in those of the Autonomous Community. Of course and meridian we have it. However, as defined in the 3E2020 Strategy, we will continue to explore whether there are other options, whether there are places where, as has been done on other occasions, using non-fracking techniques, we can have gas that can be used as a means of making that energy transition. And these studies without any kind of exploration or exploitation can continue to be done without major investments. It's those studies I was referring to. But you have no doubt that it is clear to this department and to this government what this House has approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "Interpelation, made of the members of the EHGG of the Belsen Rocks, to the chief physician of the Society, as to the measures of the state of the EAE's intercourse." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u93	Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, chief of departments. I don't think I'm going to have to remind the chief physician of business. I'm sure he realizes the importance of it. We may say that something has been moved in this kind of legislation or in some matters or other; but, unfortunately, after four years of intercourse, there is nothing but looking back at reality. The state of hired laborers, solitaries, minority wages, labor agreements, social interviews, or collective negotiations, is simply to assert this. As we say, the days are not good for Araba, Bizkai, and Gipuzah. The measures which have been taken in the latter years from the Spanish state, which has its fundamental rights in the social area, have produced severe consequences, and are being brought into our circle. In 2011, the government of Zapopter did the work-reforms, among many other things, the possibility of negotiation in the Basque Country, or of preventing them from deciding in the negotiation of Madrid. In 2012 the work-form prescribed by PP gave the ultra-adactivity of the contract and gave priority to the corporate agreements over the professional agreements. That's among other things. These reforms, as has been said, have been constrained, are reforms made to answer the neoligary logicians, and have brought in a complete indifference for the sake of workers. But not only to the prejudice of the workers, to have a disorganised model, or to weaken the public sector, does not contribute to the development of the economy. The immediate profit which the Neoliberian seeketh produces future misery. These reforms are based on producing and social patterns in our own country, and have been created to solve problems we don't have. To gain wages in competition, not only is unjust to those who have least, but is not useful in our frame, has produced general poverty, and the rights obtained by workers for many years are being lost from one day to another. Thus, while it is said that we are involved in the economy cycle, the purchase power of one of the Arcadians, Bizkais, and Gipus has fallen for the last five years more than in the state. And the concentration of work is growing terribly. Another data. Of the 550 thousand workers who worked under the contract, 350 thousand have no renewed contract. The workers who work with the contract in the day are only 200,000. That's why we say that in the past few years the reforms which have been imposed from Madrid and the acquired measures are being opposed to the majority of the Basque Country. This law has also been opposed to the forms of work, the most convincing majority, and, what is most important, it brings us to impoverish our people, and gives no answer to the wants we have here. And what's going on with the collective negotiation? Well, a collective negotiation is of striking examples, and the situation at this moment is not at all tender. Apart from being a general block, the centralization of compacts is taking place. The circle of our relationships is losing, and, as has been said, the conditions of labor are becoming dulled and impoverished. Hitzarmenen zentralizazizio edo stataziziazia aipatu due éta horretarako azken hilabeteetako titular Batzuk irakurtzea besterik ez dago. "The collective negotiation at the state level continues to advance in Euskadi." Hau CRLtik esandakoa says: "The CRL warns that in March the agreements signed in Madrid affected more Basque workers than those negotiated in the Basque Autonomous Community". This is not circumstantial, last year the tonic was the same. Edo: "The year starts with two thirds of Basque workers without agreement" or "Euskadi gives prominence to Madrid in the negotiation of collective agreements". And so we have a whole list of agreements and agreements at the state level, which in some cases prevent negotiations in other areas without the prior authorization of the signatories in the state and, in other cases, prevent some issues from being negotiated in lower areas, for example here, and which, in general, involve putting the state negotiating framework above the Basque collective negotiating framework. Some examples of this are the gardening agreements, the hairdressing agreements, the conservatory agreements, we can also talk about the State Framework Agreement for the Care of Dependent Persons, or the first agreement signed in the entire history of metal in the State. This is what we're talking about, Mr. Toña. Besides, as I have already mentioned, the conditions of labour are, in consequence of all this, to be diminished, and to impoverished. There is also a collective negotiation, or at least a means of dividing wealth through the salaries. Today, I think reality is having another reality for years. If we look at the sector in which the labor agreements we've mentioned, that is to say, those who are signed and affected in the state, are here i.e. those who are on the level of state, educulusquerías, hosteles, conservas, personals dependentes... So the conditions of work, and so on, have a direct and peculiar influence on women in Aban, Usca, and Gipuzia. And if we say that the crack between women and men is bigger than ever, and that the difference from 2008 has somehow been related to three points in a collective negotiation. In front of this panorama, we must say that Confebask is comfortable with the patriarchal, and that, using the situation, the Exodan forms, the collective negotiation is essentially being released by the new proposals which are being penetrated into the effects of the work-form. This is the new pattern of all the work-making, or the proposal called by Adegik, which was originally introduced, and which Confebas has now done. He who has received all the unions, the discords, and the censure of all the unions, and the purposes of his labor. That was during the ceremony with the presence of the head of Tapia Group, from Confebask, and if you don't tell me the opposite, at least, with the fundamental affection of fun. We think it's absolutely necessary to take action from public institutions, from fun. And the new measures and proposals, bold, which demand our model of production and social reality. We cannot forget that what is at stake is a great deal, and that the political, social, and unional majority is strongly favorable to the discussion and decision of the work. That's why we've made this interpetion, because we don't think that everything that's going on around the mediums and the model of work-acts should be placed only between the unions and the patriarchal, we think there's more care, and that by this interpelation we've found out how you see it, Mr. Chief, ready to take this situation and what measures you're going to take, or how you see what'll do, and what'll do, to encourage the relationships that'll answer our somomical reality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u95	Good morning, Congressmen. Dear Lady of the rice, as you have said well, workers are not living their best time. The government of Madrid has left a panomama of work-relations which have been repeatedly applied to it. Right here, as you've said, I've said more than once, but I'm just saying that the party that protects the government has also turned up against this reform. We don't agree with the form of work in 2012, but it's the law we've got today, and we're still working to face what this reality brings. Indeed, these are not good times for labour relations in the Basque Autonomous Community, in Euskadi. The 2012 labour reform marked a drastic change in labour regulations. As far as collective bargaining is concerned, he introduced into the law, in the Workers' Statute, two aspects which broke what had been the current paradigm in this field until then, putting, on the one hand, a limit on the ultra-activity of collective agreements and significantly modifying the aspects of competition between collective agreements, imposing on all company agreements and facilitating the attraction of statehood, of State agreements. It is nothing more than a finding of what has happened. I am also aware that the trade unions are holding a round of consultations with the parliamentary groups in this House on this matter. These extremes, coupled with a deep economic and employment crisis, therefore, together with other political and trade union factors, which I also do not want to mention, have clearly weakened the collective bargaining processes. As a result, both the new regulatory framework and the absence of collective agreements in force, deduces, and from it, an alarming increase in contractual dualization and entails the emergence of groups with very poor working conditions, and a situation of clear paralysis of collective bargaining, from which neither are foreign, let us not forget, not only the legislation, but also the remoteness in the negotiation between the social partners. Collective bargaining, by pure definition, is the result of the collective autonomy of workers and employers. It is up to them, not others, to carry it out. Few governments can do if they are not invited. But, in spite of this, from our institutions, and from the Labour Relations Council, there is, I believe, a remarkable effort of intermediation and support for the negotiation and resolution of conflicts. The unsolicited intervention of third parties outside the labour relations between employers and workers distorts the systems of collective autonomy, which for this are of autonomy, being exceptional and undoubtedly answered by the social agents, except, I repeat, that they request it, which is quite frequent and very frequent, even though it is silent work. Our Labour Directorate, the Inspection and the Labour Relations Council are constantly willing to promote and support negotiating agreements, always at the request of some of the parties, of course. Like any negotiation, its beginning and development implies assuming and recognizing for its protagonists a previous situation of, let us call it, counterposition of interests, which is what the Workers' Statute says, of conflict of interests, and its finalization through an agreement, in this case, through a collective pact or agreement, reflects the balance that is reached between the opposing interests, in a mutual interest. I don't know why some sectors recognize conflict as an inherent element in labour relations – I don't mean you, Mrs Arrondo – seem to walk the devil, when it's nothing more than a mere affirmation of reality, which is also recognized in legal texts and in our past and present history. A deep inequality of forces, of arms, says the Constitutional Court, can prevent such a balance or make it extremely difficult to meet interests, even the very beginning of contacts to exchange starting positions with each other. You know I like these things. First, to resolve a conflict we have to start by recognizing it; secondly, to try to manage it, and to manage it we have to distinguish between our positions and focus on bringing interests closer together. Don't use power. It is not appropriate to use power in negotiation, not even law, if this leads to a worse situation. It is better always to have an agreement in equity. It is a fact that the changes introduced by the labour reform and the economic crisis in its facet of a serious employment crisis have blurred the presumptive balance that had previously been possible to initiate, and even to conclude, negotiating processes more easily. In this situation, in view of the interest that the Basque Government undoubtedly has in the success of the work concertation because of the enormous impact that it has, not only economic but also social, encourages and encourages the parties to negotiate. We have raised our interest in the unlocking of sectoral collective bargaining, as well as the desirability of introducing in the same mechanism of adaptability of companies, in order to promote both their competitiveness and the maintenance and creation of employment. Without political agreements, we don't build a country. No labor agreements either. We do not build confidence, which is the basis of growth, competitiveness, equity and the sharing of results. "Essupony, understanding the remarkable influence of social intercourse, has asked the social and negotiations to begin with, because we really believe that the improvements of the whole society will come to us from there. The advisability and strategies before collective bargaining, both of employers' and trade unions' organizations, which at times bet on negotiation at the enterprise level and reject sectoral negotiation, make it very difficult to develop sectoral collective bargaining, which is vitally important for the regulation of the labour relations of small and medium-sized enterprises, in which the majority are undoubtedly the workers, is our country. I am not saying that we do not have to negotiate at business level, but we do have to strive to promote sectoral negotiation. And, of course, about the stateization of collective bargaining, Arrondo anderea, teens esan duzunarekin, baina gure esku ez dago. On the other hand, the difficulty in reaching sufficient representative majorities in certain sectors to give overall effectiveness to agreements that could often be agreed disincentive both parties to deepen negotiations. And this also forces me to reflect aloud. It forces us to ask ourselves whether we should not accept, not without some resignation, agreements of limited effectiveness, because they often extend their effectiveness to non-signatory collectives and we end up favoring the general interest of workers, which is ultimately what it is about. Our presence – because you have alluded to me, Mrs Arrondo – in meetings organized by employers, by business organisations is, of course, an institutional presence, as in all those forums to which we are also invited by social actors, but that does not mean our explicit support for everything that is manifested there. It is true that in the photographs, in the aesthetics, entrepreneurs and business organizations organize more institutional acts and we are more present in them, but it will not be because of a lack of willingness to attend acts organized by trade union organizations. Some don't invite us. When we're invited, we're there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u96	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u97	Mr. Toña, it looks like we could be in some things at least with the X-ray of the situation. That is, the state of collective negotiation is not good, the process of stability, of collective negotiation or of centralization is not good for our country, and you don't mention, but I don't want to understand that it's not even possible to connect our country with a salary party. But maybe we don't know what he's doing, what you can do from institutions and from fun. I will tell you that there have been two different moments, and I believe it is so. Two different times. On the one hand, about the 7th of July, 2013, the initiation took place, the political initiation took place. What for? For deals. There was an active position at that moment, and I want to remember that Confebas turned back. And he drew back on a proposal made by the President, and when it was possible, the legal opportunity, because when it is mentioned here, the legal opportunity is to deal with the form of work in some other way. But also legal. But he said no to that legal opportunity. He didn't say no to hair quality. Because sometimes it's said here to give legality, that everything you do is done, but kloo, you can't do any more because it's not legal. And that's not always the case. And that was just a moment of fun, but then, after that date and the failure, as if nothing had happened, over and over again, as I said before, we've always seen fun, the president, the chief physician... Right next to the patronal. And this is the image that is given in society, and the perception that is there: that some kind of protection and reconnaissance are given to the person who said no. And still more serious. A certain degree of dependence is required by the chief physician or the President to hire the patrician, and he asks him not to know what to do. And we think there's more to be done than that. And I won't mention the state of public function today. And that's what's all about fun, and the state of public function, even in collective negotiations, is quite pathetic and pathetic at the moment. And another theme, and the one that was in my hands and also the one that made it against me, the social clauses. And this, too, has something to do with collective negotiation, has something to do with the conditions of work, with poverty, etc., etc. As we said from our point of view, it ended in July 2013, with that active attitude, and then, well, I don't know if I'm interested in putting other attitudes and other proposals on the table in front of this situation and the status that's been lately being played. It's true, and I accept that Madrid has basic rights. "We don't agree," you say, "but it's legal." Well, it's just like that for us, but one more reason to still work for the independence, as far as we can. However, to be initiated, as it were, to exasperate powers, to work for worthy occupations, once and again to repeat this to the patrician, to make him explain certain states that are unjust, I think it is possible to do so. After all, we want to emphasize that a growing area needs to be reinforced. If the legislation is done and this has not been accomplished, and therefore we say that they are taking steps back, and that there must be other things to do. We think we need our own frame and we have to defend it over and over again. And in this way we must take steps, to ensure worthy conditions of work, to promote collective negotiations, to decide here, perhaps the minority pay to take us to 1200 euros, to set up for 35 hours of contract, although not too much to please a patrician, to abolish, as far as possible, the imposed labour forms.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u99	The lady's head. The Red MUDY has given a number of proposals to the social producers, and the person who brought these agents at the table of the Society Dialog is also sitting on the table. Our wish is to come to a half-way proposition that will be tried on all sides, and we are always ready to do so. We don't often see what we do and often we don't want to show it. From the Basque Government we have made a number of proposals to the social actors involved in labour relations, with unequal response, by both sides, as well as discreet but very serious efforts – and you have referred, Mrs Arrondo, to the proposal made by the lehendakari to maintain the ultraactivity of the agreements, which was effectively rejected by Confebask, also at the impulse of the territorial ones – but I am referring to discrete, very serious efforts which have tried to promote the signing of pacts and agreements. I also have to say that we have not only received rejections on occasions from Confebask and employers, on other occasions we have received them, on our proposals, from some trade unions. We've received them, too. I'm not saying it has to be... I wish they were otherwise, but things have to be put in place too. At the moment, there are proposals in the Social Dialogue Bureau that have been put forward by the parties on collective bargaining. What else would we like to see approved! And the representation of the Basque Government in this forum is working towards a rapprochement that we believe, I have to say, enormously difficult, in order to reach a minimum understanding between the proposals put forward by the business representatives and the trade union. It won't be easy and it won't be. If we believe that this is the standard for the normalization of the relations of labour, even if we allow it to be the means of exchange. Despite its difficulty, we continue with our work in the above-mentioned forum, although we assume the little impact that its existence can have on the world of labor relations given, in fact, the little union involvement in its formation, in the formation of the Social Dialogue Bureau, of two unions of undoubtedly representative weight of our country, as well as of a certain result precisely of that inhibition, which sometimes occurs in business representation. It's a shame. But in spite of this we continue with the work of seeking and fostering understanding – of course, we will not stop – both with the participants of the Social Dialogue Bureau who are willing to sit with us and with each other and with organizations that refuse their participation, for the important effect it has on our society. We know that's important. Of course, you, Mrs Arrondo, will maintain that these are not courageous measures, but in the competitive framework in which we move, where exclusive competence over labour legislation rests with the State, the margin of action of the Basque Government is frankly narrow to do something else. In conclusion, Mrs. Ardo, you reproach us with not being brave, but we must move in the rights of our countrymen. You know very well that some of the things I say are not agreeable to them, or at least I do, the patronala dislikes them. Sometimes the unions don't like to admit it, sometimes the patronials. I think that means that the government is all alone to play well, not so well, but quite well, it's in its place.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u100	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 15th point in the theme list: "Interregation, Ichaensus González, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the United States, and of the collectors of the Special Commercial Society, concerning the register of special employment centers." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u101	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor. You know that there have been several, quite a few, I would say, agreements that have been adopted in this House concerning the creation of registers of special employment centres, which have also been systematically ignored by the Government. And in an inquiry that took place in the last full of control, you admitted the criticism, without further comment, I suppose you have more information to know what to say about the non-compliance with these agreements, or in any case, this delay that is already of the entire legislature. We are going to ask you, well you already know the question, about the social economy report made by the OVES. I know you will tell me that this is not a report that the Government makes, but the Basque Observatory for Social Economy has its agreements with the Government and in principle its reports enjoy some credibility. In that report, which reviews the situation of the social economy as a whole, as far as the family of special employment centres is concerned, it drew attention, as we say in the justification, to the fact that there has been an increase in Bizkaia: in 2011 there were four special employment centres; in 2012, five; in 2013, seven, and in 2014, eight. Of course, you will understand that an opposition group draws attention to the fact that there has not been a register of special employment centres, which is an enabling requirement for operation, that there may have been an increase in special employment centres. It does not cease to be striking, and a group of the opposition to this fact, logically, can only ask the Government what it owes it to. I say that the Government can hide itself in the fact that, well, that report has not been done by the Government, it has been done by the OVES, but here when it has been dealt with it has been taken for granted that the data it provided and the information it provided, finally, faithfully captures the state of the situation. I, counselor, will help you with the answer, because I know the explanation. The explanation I know because in the previous days I was called by a representative of Elhabe, to tell me that I casually knew that this was coming here today and that therefore, in the end, he assumes responsibility for the data contained in that report, because it comes to say that the OVES actually does what it does is to collect the information that Elhabe provides him. Therefore, I am already telling you that this may be an explanation that would exempt you from any other explanation or justification. What happens is that far from being an acceptable answer, what it does – at least in my case – is to increase the doubt, because, indeed, the more difficult it becomes to achieve a goal, usually tending to increase my obstinacy, and at this point, since the information really is of such a contradictory nature, is it because I ask you: Does Elhabe, then constitute as the association of special employment centres and outside it there is no other possibility? Because, of course, I want to remind you – as you remember if I put it – in September 2015 there was a appearance at the request of the Bildu group on contract reservations, and well, I asked the Director of Services, because I thought I understood some explanation that there was a register of special employment centres, so, in a somewhat confusing explanation to me, I've been trying in the session log to see, in short, if I understood anything else, I said no, that they were records in Lanbide's internal order. Well, anyway, they're not official records, but if Lanbide has that information, how come he doesn't agree with the one the OVES provides or the one Elhabe raises in this case? But of course, I say that far from clearing my doubts, I have been increasing, because I am going to page 32 of the report and says: "As for the number of entities, we see a positive trend during the periods presented and in 2014 a new special employment centre has been added compared to 2013. Taking into account the distribution of special employment centres according to historical territory and legal form, we note that the good assessment is determined by the increase in the number of entities in Bizkaia, which are also mainly constituted as limited companies. On the other hand, it should be noted that the new entity created has been constituted as an association". Of course, to me the explanation given to me by this person speaking on behalf of Elhabe, is that in fact, he did understand that the data could give rise to confusion, but that in the end, he should understand that what Elhabe had actually done was to collect in this field the special employment centres that had been operating and that they had hosted the association figure of Elhabe, but that they were not ex novo special centres. Of course, when I see this, I think that the information given to me by the interlocutor, in short, would squeal somewhere, because if Elhabe is the one who supplies this data to the OVES, then I do not understand that it is spoken in terms of "new created entities", "increase in the number of entities"... That's why I'm asking you, Counselor. I don't know if you have the information about all this. If you don't have it, I don't care, we will re-formulate it in another field, but I do want to say that it really emphasizes, first of all, that this question, which is so simple, because in common territory, decrees have been made to formalize the registers of special employment centres without so much lark and without so many things. I'm looking at the answers the government has given, its predecessor too, and they were, in the end, somewhat deleterious answers: we want a framework, such... There is a draft decree to regulate this, which was also consulted to Elhabe, but it is October 2014, and then it was accompanied by that we will consult with entities... The usual. Anyway. But we're on a dead track one more time. I ask you why there is such a discrepancy between the entities that appear to have increased in Bizkaia, special employment centres, and the fact that no special employment centre can be established today, despite the insistence of this Parliament. I ask you for that, and by the way, if you cannot answer the question raised, if you can at least answer what is so late, what is it that you must accept the criticism without further comment, but, finally, there must be some explanation, some plausible explanation, because behind all this is not only our parliamentary group and other groups, but there are initiatives that are waiting for. And that is why I use the matter to raise this requirement again. If you cannot answer this question about the OVES report, since it does not belong to the Government, then at least what is the state of the situation and how can you give an account of this type of information which apparently also has a propaganda effect: it is that the special employment centres are increasing! Apparently not; they are the same, but they have been associated with Elhabe. I just don't know what to believe anymore, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u102	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u103	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmans, chief physician. Dear Mr Itxaso, surely we have not understood each other well in the questions and answers and, therefore, we are going to have a colloquium here..., I hope something substantial, but in part we are both diverted, because I do not know if we have really understood the object of this inquiry. I'm gonna try and do it. What I do understand is that it emphasizes the non-fulfilment of the mandates that are approved in this House. This is clear to me, at least as you put it. I believe that more than once we have said that adopting a decree is not a matter that takes little time precisely, because we have to do a process of elaboration that I will say later. No, I do not bring here Elhabe's information to which you refer, but I will answer you about the situation in which this record is currently being compiled, what is the status of the situation. Furthermore, in the justification of the reasons for this intervention, I understood that I did not get the answer I gave a few months ago in this House. Well, I'll give you again some of the information I have and then make it easier. In that inquiry, I transferred him that he had been working with the third sector to develop this normative framework mentioned. But I must remind you that the special employment centres are regulated by a royal decree of 1985, which approved the Regulation of the special employment centres defined in the Law of 82, in the LISMI. This is a state law enacted under article 149 of the Constitution and, in the absence of autonomous legislation, this royal decree, 1985, is directly applied. But as you indicate, this Government plans to draft its own legislation by means of a decree regulating the establishment and operation of a register of special employment centres. The function relating to the qualification of special employment centres and their registration was transferred to the Autonomous Community by agreement of the Joint Transfer Commission in 2010, in October, approved by the Royal Decree of 5 November, in an agreement on the implementation of labour legislation in the field of work, employment and the professional foundation for employment, which until then was carried out by SEPE, the State Public Employment Service. Lanbide assumed the exercise of this function from the beginning of his activity. Although not expressly mentioned, the function of managing employment programmes, which is provided for in Article 3b of Law 3/2011 of 13 October 2011 on Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, is understood to be included in Article 3b of the statutes of this body. Within the Lanbide structure, it is the Labour Activation Directorate that manages the register and steps have been taken to approve the decree to register special employment centres. On 30 October 2015, this Councillor for Employment and Social Policy initiated the procedure for drawing up the project establishing the Basque register of special employment centres and regulating their qualification and registration. Following the prior approval of the normative text and the preparation of the corresponding legal report by the Directorate of the General Services of Lanbide, of the legal direction of the services of Lanbide, in January 2016 this year, deadlines have been initiated for the hearing of trade union organizations, the most representative business organizations and all those associations that group the special employment centres, as main interested in the new regulation. Here I quote Ehlabe, and also Berezilan. In addition, a report was requested from those bodies and agencies of the Basque Government which must decide on a text, on any decree, in accordance with the terms of the order initiating the procedure. The reports and allegations received have now been reviewed, and the draft decree has been revised to bring it into line with accepted proposals, so that it will soon have to be referred to the Economic and Social Council for its opinion, and also subsequently to the Directorate for Legislative Development and Regulatory Control, requesting its legality report. And after these procedures, the ECO, the Economic Control Office of the Department of Finance, will have to be pronounced at last before its final approval by the Governing Council. We continue to believe that the development of this decree for the registration of special employment centres should be part of a more general framework for analysing employment needs, opportunities and challenges. I pointed out to him in his day, and I reiterate it today, that the intention of this Government is to work together with entities working on the employment of persons with disabilities, in the in-depth reflection and analysis of the employment of persons with disabilities, with the aim of developing this normative framework that offers comprehensive responses to the conclusions that will emerge from this global analysis. I leave some other considerations for the second part.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u105	So, with all this information you provide us, counselor, can we hope that we will know this in this legislature or...? I say this because there are many issues that are true, in the area of active employment policies there are different areas to intervene on, but this is a very clear demonstration of what has been the government's policy on active employment policies. If we look at everything, let's say, all the genesis of debates on this matter, a number of them at the impulse of the Socialist Group – questions and so on, written answers...–, the truth is that it is a throw out balloons, it is to give some explanations quite, in short, formal but very unconsistent, because we cannot understand, Mr Councillor, that the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country can cost so much, so much, to do something that in other autonomy is very easily ventilated. On the other hand, the draft that was supplied to us as early as October 2014, which was sent to this Parliament, raises a number of articles which, moreover, does not represent any novelty in the comparative regulation of other autonomy. I mean, it doesn't pose anything. Then he says that a legal framework... But if you have cited the legal framework, you have cited the LISMI and subsequent amendments that have repealed that and have been replaced by more recent legislation. So, the question about when all this is going to happen is not like a sarcasm, but because we really have the impression that it is going to end the legislature and this issue, which is an active employment policy, which would mobilize resources, initiatives, which could be registered and enabled, perhaps tomorrow could be associated with this representative entity, which is Ehlabe, who we know do a good role. But this associationism thing, it knows it's free and voluntary. There may be entities that may not be interested in being associated, for a thousand reasons, but have the right to be treated equally. Of course, as this is already beginning to be a very repeated request from some collectives, that is why we echo it and bring it back to you here. You have explained the iter, formally. Of course, when he has already quoted the Office of Economic Control, I said, "Puf, goodbye this legislature, who knows if the next one!" Because indeed in those remaining waters of the ECO, a lot of matters remain stagnant and the Government uses as its argument this purgatory of the ECO to say that it is there, that, therefore, things cannot come out. Finally, with all due respect, Mr. Counsellor, I believe that the Government must have some unrecognizable intention, because this really has no parallel in any other autonomy. There are initiatives that are awaiting. What I brought here today was a matter of very clear discrepancy, which in the end we do not ventilate, but I can quote from page 32 of that report where it clearly speaks of the creation of new centres. And it's that the mosque is still in effect, it's still dormant. Has the number of special employment centres increased? According to the report yes, although then that explanation, that seems to me somewhat preventive, that is, that the government's answer forwards it to me by phone at night someone representing Ehlabe... And I say, man, if it's true that this means only that there are special employment centres that have been associated with Ehlabe and Ehlabe has done that interpretation and says that they have increased the special employment centres and only increased their number of associates... Well, it may be, but what I've read is that it speaks of new creation. All these things are always very doubtful and the Government has an obligation to be diaphanous, to be transparent and to clear any shadow of doubt. If registration has not been enabled, there cannot be any increase in special employment centres. But believe it, enable that registration, pass that decree at once, which are showing us other autonomys that are much more diligent and less, let's say, faracious in a process like this. Because there are people you've made commitments to, or at least that's what they say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u106	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u107	Mr. Ichasus, I accept that it is our duty to comply with the agreements which this legislature accepts, and that is what we are about, with the choices and limits that reality and legality give us. Here's the agreement that was accepted that we were asked to develop a work-based tax record and that's what we're here. As I have mentioned on other occasions, we believe that it is our duty – it would be good, it would be more necessary – to respond to the requests of this Parliament and to develop its own rules governing the establishment and operation of an official register of special employment centres. And we're not going to stop in a process that's going on. I hope that it is not the ECO that, as you say, takes it to the elephant cemetery, but that it ends up giving it a way out. You know I accept the criticism, that I accepted it in your day, and I wonder if we could have done it faster. I leave the question in the air, I'm not very sure. He knows that I do not mind responding like this, that I have no objection to doing so and when I believe that something could have been done better and for one reason or another it has not been done, if that has been so, because I would have to say that the delay has been wrong, but I want to insist that the reality is that we have been managing that record. I think it is very important that we be aware that, whether we have registration or not, what we do have are very good special employment centres, which work, which are working well and which are giving the service that our society is demanding. I insist that the decree establishing and regulating the registration of persons with disabilities is in the process, which we are working with the third sector, which is essential for the special employment centres to function, in order to coordinate them with those working for the employment of persons with disabilities. The fact that there is no register should not automatically be assimilated to the fact that there are no more special employment centres, they will be formal or in fact informal, but there may be more special employment centres, even if they are not registered, or even if that register, in particular ours, has not yet been launched. But if there is no doubt, I find it necessary to clarify that special employment centres, in order for them to operate as such, are not necessarily registered in the register of special employment centres, and this is important. To add, Mr Itxaso, that we have been working on this whole procedure with the agents, with the people who work with disability, and we know that the most important entities that do this work in Euskadi are registered in the state register that is currently running Lanbide. And to finish, a point. The data to which you have made mention of the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy, simply asking at the source, and that means and says a lot of its rigour, but you would have to know that there has, as you know, been some special employment centre more in Bizkaia, as you indicate, but that the data that are collected in the report of the observatory that you mention are those that belong to the social economy, to the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy, which is what the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy is responsible for, and the data that you may be using are only those of the special employment centres that can be framed in the social economy. They are not all special employment centres. There are special employment centres which are not necessarily part of the Basque Observatory of Social Economy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u108	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask," he said to himself, "about the dignity and poverty of the law-makers of the Society, Arri Zulaika Portillo, a member of the Society." Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u109	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. Good morning to Mr. Toña chief. In recent days we often hear that employment is produced by corporations, and this assertion is half a truth, for it is not only that corporations produce employment, but even public administrations directly, through public employments, and indirectly, by public contract. In fact, when EH Collector thinks that the business field doesn't produce jobs, the Administration must be a refeficiary creating motor and high-quality employment. It doesn't mean that it is necessary to create employment by means of concrete investments that have no social income, and which are not necessary, but which actually contributes social income to the works. So public opposition is extremely important in the economic development of a people. However, in this area the situation is much changing for years, and we are passing to a very pretoric and unsistent position which has never been. In fact, the savage competition with neoliberal bases, which seeks to obtain the greatest advantage over everything as soon as possible, and the administration of this country is breaking all the balance of opposition which is applied to the use of money. The consequences are obvious: the conditions of labour, which are offered by public or sternized services, are more and more pre-operative; in different areas and areas there are conflicts of labour, and there are no will or means to respect the security rules of the work, but events which raise the dangers of the labor-stripe. In front of that we ask the Chief Tohaa: Will you end up with that design policy that brings nothing but appetite and poverty?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u111	The head of the table, the chief physician, the congressman, good day again. Mrs. Zulaika, a work-precation, and an instability are themes that must be cultivated in the country, which can only be solved by the public contract. In an interpelation of our position against the law of violence, Mrs. Arrido, I have explained and will not repeat it again. On April 7th, this legislature accepted the 3/2016 Law, the Public Contractation of certain Klausula Social Association. In this law the minimum conditions of the duties of public contracts are collected. The minimum conditions of work are marked both in direct and in subrogation cases. In June this law will be established, and on June, on the principles of public oppositions, which may proceed from the Basque institutions, those least conditions which the law receives are necessary. We therefore have a law passed in this Parliament, which I understand, Mrs Zulaika, that is not to your liking. I understand that well, but as a government we must enforce it, as you know, even if it is difficult for you to accept it. This law tests and we, like the government, start it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u112	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u113	Yes, thank you. We assume that the Administration has a direct responsibility for public money and to guarantee that in all public contracts which are made from its own domain there are worthy conditions of work. It's not only good that the Administration gives the lowest price of all the corporations who present public design after the departure, as is the case in recent times, and that's the case with Mari Anton! You have to guarantee the worthy status of workers working for work or services that work for you, you know, by continuing through the process through the inspection, for example. But the gravity of this problem is that the prerogative is fostering the public administration itself, that the prices of litigation which are inflicted on their appropriations are lower and lower, and that the drama becomes more and more dramatic. The firm here is seeing the blinds forced to go down to the streets, and we've had a chance to turn this thing around in this house, but PNV has turned the legal proposition that was for that, and turned it all round, just to follow it exactly the same. The Prefect, which is more and more extensive, to maintain himself even from public works, and from the services offered to public money.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u115	Thank you. The job is the priority of this government, clearly. We work in this government for high employment creation. And in the last few months, the government has made a special effort to maintain a public employment of quality. Employment is the Government's priority and we are making an effort to maintain the conditions of high-quality, never-sufficient public employment. Although I am aware of the various realities that can be found in the various areas of public procurement, because we see what we see, I do not think that we can speak lightly of the unfortunate working conditions of people working for the public administration. In any case, I also trust that the correct implementation of Law 3/2016 will be a real step forward in improving existing incorrect cases. On the other hand, I do not doubt that from the department that we run we will respond to how many complaints of non-compliance are brought with the relevant actions of the Labour Inspectorate, an action that since the adoption of the aforementioned law will become doubly more effective, since the administrative sanctions for social violations that may be imposed are added to the penalties in the field of public procurement. From the Government we will continue to work on creating employment opportunities to reduce as far as possible the level of unemployment we suffer, without forgetting at any time that we must guarantee quality employment. Also, of course, in the field of public procurement. We have a path of improvement. I know. We will do that, certainly not as quickly as you require, but with respect to the rules of application on public procurement and competition, which we have adopted from this Parliament and which are therefore inevitable. In order that it may be so also in the public contract, we shall have a law of duty in the following few weeks, and I am sure that this will suppose a remarkable progress. Not for you, but what this legislature has said, that's what it is.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u116	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, Ichaso González, a member of the Basque Socialists, a member of the United States, made to Enplegu and the commander of the Polic Society, upon the difficulties of making a decree on the subjective right of the housing." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u117	Thank you, President. Well, counselor, we're on the job. And at this point we have the following statement you made on behalf of the Government saying that it was the Government's will not to harden the conditions for access to housing rental aid by the law of the branch, by the Housing Act. So, your will is not to harden the conditions. However, on the Government's official website, a draft decree appeared that put tyrians and Trojans on the warpath, withdrew immediately, and it seems to be that the Government has a problem, and it is for this reason that we ask: what are the difficulties that make it impossible for this Government to draw up a decree that will prevent hard access to rental subsidies in the Basque Country?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u118	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u119	The head of the table, members of the legislature, chief physician, good day again. Dear Mr. Housingo, this Chamber of Housing Laws tested on the 18th of June, 2015. We may even say that this law is a pioneer, who accepts the subjective right. It was said in Basque, it is a pioneering law that recognizes the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of decent and adequate housing. My will, our will, the will of the Government, as it cannot be otherwise, is to comply with and enforce the law which this Parliament has been endowed with. This is a subjective right of access to rented housing, provided that certain annual income and a certain age of registration in the register of protected housing applicants are established. It is important to stress these aspects, so as not to generate false expectations. You know that the Department of Employment and Social Policy began the drafting of the development decree since the entry into force of the Housing Act with a draft, which, on the other hand, has withdrawn to start drafting it, in fact, in another way and with greater consensus. I must confess it's a complex transitional, but you will agree with me, if I say, for the development of so important a right, that the possibility of using a single article of the law doesn't make it easy. To this almost lack of regulation, with a single article in the whole law, we must add the difficulties to make a correct integration between the existing supplementary housing benefit, framed in the system of income guarantee and social inclusion, and the new subjective right to housing. And it is that you have intended to integrate two very different systems through a single additional provision. We have a transitional procedure, with a transitional provision, which allows us to maintain both benefits, but that cannot remain forever, that has to be resolved definitively. There can be no two benefits. There'll have to be only one. And you know this very well, Mr. Itxaso.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u120	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u121	Yes, of course there will have to be aid, but the nuclear issue was whether the formulation of the Housing Act was inexorably conducive to tightening access conditions. We have understood that no, in addition to the article to which you refer is a transitional provision, that is, as long as it is not regulated. Therefore, this has an expiry date and the Government can regulate perfectly considering the consolidation of the subjective right, in this case to the GIR with the PCV, and that the conditions of access do not have to worsen. But you will agree with me, Mr. Counselor, that this amber decree that was presented has created an important alarm. We understand that it was giving rise, precisely, to that interested reading that "in the end, of course, as the law is bad, it has a bad enough wording, because, in the end, it gives rise to these hopeless situations". We don't think so. In fact, the government itself, for example, approved – and we put it in justification as an example – the decree of compensation for the cohabiting party in three months. It's true we had to insist. When the government wants it, it gives itself out, waxes itself, and gets things going. I am not saying that this matter is easy, I am not saying that this matter is easy, but if it is not easy, that is all the more reason for not having acted with such a lightness of putting a document that clearly attacked previous conditions of access to these rental aids, more favourable than those laid down in the draft Decree. And that certainly creates an important alarm and, above all, I don't know if it was what he was pursuing, the end he was pursuing, I don't know if there was a response to the law and that he would raise, as was raised yesterday, nothing less than its modification. This is also something else that draws attention, because you said no to the modification, but, on the other hand, you say that we do have to change. It is really difficult to know where the Government is in this matter. We believe that the difficulties they claim to be encountering are due to a very strong reading of the law. The spirit that encourages it at no time attempts to suppress or restrict or harden or undermine rights that were present so far. And you know it. If that is their will, as reflected in their statements, we hope, both we, the Socialist Group, and I suppose that other groups that supported the Housing Act, and, above all, those individuals and collectives who operate in this area of access to housing, of the right to housing, that this alarm can actually be mitigated, that it is clear that the Government in no case...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ichaso. Your time is up. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u123	Mr Itxaso, publishing the draft was not fortunate, it was an exercise in transparency, but we could have avoided it. But what the decree is not going to do in any case when it is formulated is to amend the law, for that there are other mechanisms. The difficulty of the union of these two systems has not been discussed by us alone. Besides the Department of Police and Employments of Society, there is something in this Chamber, which all the parties and groups have acknowledged. Thus, at least, you have declared before the consent of the law, and in the disputes followed. Yesterday, and you said so, the admission of a proposal for a law to amend the second additional provision of the Housing Act, which establishes which body is the manager of the supplementary benefit, was discussed. And the argument of this proposal was nothing other than: "Since new and different conditions can be introduced (Law 3/2015 establishes them in the fourth transitional provision and also establishes them in the draft of the decree prepared by the Government to develop this law, some collectives who need special protection may remain outside the system of benefits that are necessary". In conclusion, the Housing Act has laid down certain requirements that tighten the access requirements for Euskadi's rental payments, which makes it necessary to amend this Act in order to allow for the proper integration of both systems and, nevertheless, I will tell you that the proposed amendment does not address the problem in its entirety. It would be necessary to amend at least three laws passed in this Parliament and this is a work that requires your time and on which this Parliament is competent to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u124	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary staff of the American Barrojia Barrius Barroja Popula team for the head physician of Education, Language politics, and Cultuate, about the "Bake-Bake" program in Donostia 2016. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again, counselor, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Within the framework of the European cultural capital San Sebastián 2016, the organization presented the keys to an exhibition project called "Treaty of Peace". The truth is that it is an interesting project, one of the key moments or important moments that the cultural capital is supposed to have, which will be inaugurated in a few weeks, and is described with an exhibition. It's interesting. And, in that sense, it is contacting European museums, and we understand that it has important issues. It is based on the emblematic figure of Francisco de Vitoria. What are we going to say, no, I myself, a Victorian who has legal training? One of the parents of international law. It seems that the initial axes may be correct, but... This question was asked on 14 April. Since then some questions have passed, also appeared to questions of Mr. Maneiro Mr. lehendakari... But it was surprising, it was surprising that in the presentation of the exhibition project "Treaty of Peace", when there were concrete references to ETA, it was called ETA, and it is not out of context or context, it was called ETA as "cultural exorcism of ETA", "military and cultural political phenomenon"... In other words, there was a series of reflections on ETA that left us all very surprised by the unfair. An exhibition called "Treaty of Peace", which spoke of ETA as a cultural phenomenon, was an insult to the victims, an insult to society itself and, in this sense, raised the assessment of the Department of Culture in relation to this issue, the counselor, or Mr.Muñoz, as members of the Patronate of San Sebastian 2016. The lehendakari has already made some assessments, but we want to know whether this so unfair issue of the "Treaty of Peace" exhibition project has been corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u127	Mrs. President of the Parliament. Mr. Barrio, and you're asking me about my rating on the text that happened to the terrorist organization. I think I gave my rating very clear on the 20th of April on this legislature, which you requested, in the episode of Donostia 2016. At that moment I showed my undoubted position and my ratings openly. In a great measure, according to what you then expressed, and according to what you have shown to-day: and the absolute condemnation of what it has brought to this country. Besides, all the institutions which we form the Patronate of the Capital agree with this attitude. The Director of Human Rights and the President themselves have spoken of it. We all agree, then, to reject the strong and undoubted violence of him. I don't think there's any doubt about it. The text of the presentation of the paragraph entitled "After the talks of Algiers" in the above-mentioned presentation did not, however, reflect such rejection in a forceful manner. It is clear that this text, taken from the specific context of the presentation, was unfortunate. Therefore, it was immediately acted upon by rectification by the capitality and modification of the text in question. This is the new curatorial approach, agreed with the General Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence of the Basque Government: "1989. After Algiers's conversations. Delirium and truce. "Away from illustrating violence with the ethical and political perspectives it has generated, this exhibition presents the effects of terrorism on the art produced in the historical interval from the Algiers talks to the definitive cessation of ETA's armed activity in 2011." This one I just read is the new text.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u129	It is important that what is wrong be rectified, and it seems to be, from what you have told us, that it has been rectified and that, of course, it has been recognized that that was a bad expression, an insulting expression within the context of cultural capital. We will check, you have read us a quote of what the new statement is going to be on this issue and, we will examine it, of course, you have read it quickly, but a correction was necessary. If the rectification has taken place decisively, San Sebastián 2016 will take a positive step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u131	Mr Barrio, the commitment of European cultural capital to peace is indisputable. Peace and coexistence are the backbone, heart and soul of capitalism, whose motto is precisely "Culture to live together". This idea of life through culture appears in the whole program, and of course in the "Peace treaty." It is a show offered to peace, and, proceeding from among them, speaks of the prospect of the world of law, of the peace which has followed after the violent wars or the violent historical moments. As I have already observed, the contents of Antoni Tàpies after the interviews of the member of the House of Police were not the proper texts in the commission of the House of Police. That's true, and that's why he changed immediately. In any case, I would like to conclude by stressing a number of ideas: absolute rejection of ETA terrorism. In any case, the original text cannot in any way be considered to be elevating ETA, except through an interested decontextualization of ETA. The path of the Antoni Tàpies Foundation in favour of peace, dialogue and solutions is well known, as is the unquestionable commitment of the capital and the institutions represented in the patronage for peace and coexistence. And under no circumstances should such a commitment be called into question by the unjust and interested use of words with the facts taken from their true context.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group, Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, the chief physician of the Popula Group, made for education, politics, and Cultural Division, about the trial of free access to Education." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u133	I left it on. Eskerrik asko, Madam President. For a few years now, Mrs Uriarte, a test has been carried out on access to vocational training courses in order to give people who are not in high school and cannot enter directly into these vocational education courses. However, on this occasion, last week, the test for free access to these cycles that was carried out in the three territories could not be completed in time and form because, it seems, the notebook with the exercises in Spanish and Basque that was given to the aspirants also included the sheets with the solutions. Which is not a plan, of course. In 2014 there was also a problem in this same test of free access to the FP, which was repeated after reporting leaks of some questions. That is why, Commissioner, I ask you for your assessment of what has happened with this test of free access to vocational training.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u135	The lady's head. Mrs Ruiz, the assessment of what has happened is very simple: a mistake has been made in the preparation of the test. A human mistake, like we can make any of the people here. It's important to know how to recognize it and accept it. As the great British poet Alexander Pope said, "Walking is human, forgiving is divine, and correcting is wise." In this case, the important thing is that it was possible to react immediately to the error, suspending the test and communicating in situ the holding of a new call three days later. That call has already taken place, Mrs Ruiz. It has been held this same Tuesday with all normality. He immediately reacted to the situation he had created. The new test was made on Tuesday itself with perfect regularity. So, in a few days, the situation has been solved, and that's what matters to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u137	Mrs Uriarte, I thank you for not going out on the defensive and for having, in your reply, assumed and acknowledged that a mistake was made. Nor would it have been too much that those 250 people in the 400 who presented themselves to take this test would have been apologized for, because these people, with more or less nerves, the very ones who accompany anyone who presents themselves to a test, have been hurt, because they have had to move to that place where they have done the test, because they have had to pay a transport to go there, because many will have had to organize in their homes and with their families the domestic logistics that affects everyone, because they will have had to ask for day or hours in their places of work... Anyway, it's a human mistake, you've recognized it, but we're not going to minimize the fact that what this means has been remedied, either, are we? And, well, just trust that it is not only wise because it has been rectified, but also that it is effective in successive tests, and that the necessary measures and supervision be put in place so that this does not happen again and other people are not affected by these human failures and mistakes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u139	To learn from mistakes and try to prevent these mistakes from happening again is very important. I assure you it is the principle which we apply our daily practice. As you indicate, there was a complaint during the phone call in 2014, perhaps one of the tests, in a more accurate degree of mathematics, that it might be leaked. As soon as he heard of the charge, the proceedings were put to work, and determined to examine the matter as quickly as possible. The examining investigators who had carried this investigation on had concluded that no proof of the fact of this leak had been found, neither deliberate nor explicit. In the end, the fun was done as fast and as fast as possible, not only to inquire into what had happened, but, looking at the future calls, to take care of the parcels of study, take them, and open them in a more precise manner. Thus, what had happened last week in the proper introductions of the week, is as follows: One of the persons who had taken care to prepare the test for the language added the answers with errors in the little notebook of the examination. These answers were addressed to the jury. As I said, no one is free to make a mistake. And there is a paradox that having very strict measures with regard to the custody, transfer and delivery of the exams also contributed to the fact that this error could not be detected in advance of the test, since the packages were opened only a few minutes before the test began. In this way, the exams were delivered immediately without anyone realizing that the 11-sheet test notebooks also included the answers. At the time the members of the court realized the error, the examination was immediately stopped and all persons who were conducting the test were informed there that the test would be repeated three days later, in the same places and at the same time. An immediate resolution was issued indicating what had happened, as well as the corrective process of the incident. This resolution was made public in the delegation of the three territories, in the centres where the test had been carried out, as well as on the website of the department. The important thing, as I said before, is to correct the mistake. In this case we have done as soon as possible in order to make the students as little trouble as possible. Thus the proof has been accomplished on Tuesday itself with complete regularity. And we know that failure is not very normal, but that it happens sometimes, and it is not the first, and I'm sure it won't be the last, but we take measures when it's time to correct and even look at the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The twentieth point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, María Isabel Celaa Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, a member of the Board of Education, of Language, of Cultural Society, about building a new Medical School and Medical School." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u141	Mila esker, andrea president. Mrs Uriarte, woe, Mrs Uriarte!, in your University Plan 2015-2018 you point out, you point out, you identify, the construction of the Faculty of Medicine and Nursing as a conditioned work, but as the main work to be undertaken, as was done in the previous plan, in the 2011-2014 plan. Unlike the previous plan, you place it as a conditioned work, that is, the Basque Government will only contribute 70% of the cost of the work, leaving the other 30% at the initiative of the University, so that the University can achieve these resources. How do you intend, Mrs Uriarte, to approach the construction of this infrastructure that we all point out as fundamental when the legislature is already over?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u143	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Celaá, you yourself have answered your question. You are asking me about the way in which it is intended to address the construction of the Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry and of the University School of Nursing in Leioa, as it appeared in the university plan, although, as you have said, currently Faculty of Medicine and Nursing, after the reorganization of centers that the University itself has done, when this issue is perfectly reflected in the University Plan 2015-2018. The plan makes it clear that the total cost of writing the project will be over 70% of the amount of construction expense. The University of the Basque Country, on the other hand, will have to do the tramits to bring that activity forward and find the necessary funding. This extra funding, as well as the contributions of other public or private institutions, must be sought through other operations which have to be done with its inheritance. This government has shown a firm and decided commitment to build a new fiction. You've accepted, too. In fact, the supply of the year for building a new UUPV/EHU medical Bureau Factultate has received plans for multiple years of investments in the 2015-2010 University of the Planets of the Planets of the Plan, co-operated with other institutions. Therefore, it is now up to the University to take the next step so that this faculty can become a near future in the reality that our University and our professors and students and university students deserve.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u145	Ma'am, I'm really stunned! Let us see, are we or do we not agree that health education and research is a country's priority? It is true that the facts do not often stand in contrast to this statement, given the scarcity of resources for research in this area. Just remember that only 1,200,000 have left the Department of Health this legislature. But by the way, let's go to the infrastructure. Look, the other day, the 43rd medical student promotion was presented. 43 plus 6 years of career are 49 years old. 49 years have gone by our teachers and our students in the classrooms of Lejona, without repair, because we had all decided to build an infrastructure, to build a building. 49 years! We have just one unit in Basurto, which, as you know, has five spaces – three classrooms and two additional spaces – and of course no structural work can be done there. And you put a conditioned work, – our era unconditional, the Basque government paid 100% – a conditioned work. Conditioned to what? Whether the University looks for 30% of the cost in the City Hall or in the City Council – good times to look for 30% of the cost – but it is that you also put in the 2016 budget, 0.5 million euros, there are no multi-annuals for 2017, nor for 2018, and you also put a university plan, in which already the clause that you add seems particularly worrying to me. And that's what the clause says. Well, in the event that the university fails to make that commitment, the 30% commitment, because look, you take those amounts off, you award them for something else, and of course the credits linked to the construction of that building will go ahead. This, ma'am, this is not a compromise, this is not a commitment of the Basque Government to the construction of the Faculty of Medicine as you well know, this is nothing more than mere nominalism, this is a compromise that is circumstantial, that is conditioned and that only remains on paper. This government, Mrs. – then we will look at the rankings of the universities of the world – has no commitment to Medicine, to the field of health, to the construction of the Faculty of Medicine and Nursing. And I'm sorry. But not only do I want to censure you, I want to boost your performance, because the legislature ends, the University Plan ends, ma'am, the University Plan ends, which means that we are going to take the commitment much further. Your engagement, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Cela. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u147	I'm sorry, Mrs. Celaá, you amaze me more and more every day. I am surprised that the 2015-2018 University Plan was debated in this Parliament on 25 February 2015 and a total of 46 resolutions were adopted. One of them: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to fulfil the commitment to the construction of the Faculty of Medicine of the UPV/EHU, in collaboration with the other institutions involved, given the peremptory need to have the Basurto health pole available as soon as possible". Let's see, it's been discussed. We discussed absolutely all the points that you have brought back here, and this was the agreement. Let me see, ma'am, I'm surprised!, because things have changed absolutely nothing, neither in leadership nor in commitment. They haven't changed anything at all. And you, as a previous advisor to this Government, would need to know perfectly how the University's multi-year investment plans are managed. I can tell you from the University's point of view and from the Government's point of view, because it was up to me to draw up the university plan that you led in your previous legislature, and I know how the multiannual investment plan was established, and I know how the conditions were put in place, and I know how you developed, and we now also know how it is put in place and what the conditions are. And these conditions are set from the beginning, there has been no change and, as I told you, the piece at the moment is not on this roof, it is not on this roof, it is on another roof. And another thing is that we, of course, have a very firm commitment and will accompany the University to the end. But a firm commitment. But don't you come to me here and dizzy the loser that what was said, what is not done...! No, no, ma'am, don't come here to play, we already know exactly what the University Plan says and how it's managed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Ask me, Igor Lopez de Muninuza EH Collector's parliamentary staff to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policies, about the management of the Lonja of the Port of Pasadena, and the thread of the top drawer of the topazing. " Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u149	Yes, good afternoon. I look like I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u150	Mrs. Oregi, it's your turn to answer the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u151	Yes, good morning again. Mr. lópez de Munin, this government, and I myself take all my care or care of the powers that concern my section. And to say this, to the thread of what I have answered to Mr. Sémper, I suppose you have heard, and, as you know, the care of the management of the Baiara harbour for us, unfortunately, but he is subject to the Spanish government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Łódź de Muniain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u153	Counselor, you will share with us too, that the crimes charged to you by the prosecutor are very serious crimes. We have already heard, and I have been fortunate enough to hear, for that matter, your previous statement on this subject. The problem is that you haven't said anything at all. And I see that on this occasion he does not answer me either and I refer to what he had already answered before. But I think the question we asked him was quite clear, and it is: Will he assume responsibility for the management of the port of Pasaia and its overrun? And it's just that the reason is very simple. The management, even if it is the competence of the State, is the Government's, it is its, it is its. So let's get on with it. The matter is quite clear. You have, like the president, a responsibility, the council will have those you have, but you and the president have one and they have it pretty clear. What's the problem that comes from all this? Well, the usual, and in the end things, at least here, start to smell pretty weird. If I am not mistaken, and if I am not corrected, the project was initially budgeted at around 18 million euros in Madrid. You, through a pact, the same pact with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party in Madrid to approve the budgets, in the negotiations, apart from Epsilon and Hiriko, put this too, with a budget of 18 million euros. What's going on? That when he goes to the tender he drops to 15 million euros, with which we already have the same problem that our partner Arri Zulaika used to say to the advisor: we are talking about tenders in which prices are dropped. But in this case, which is what usually happens to you with all your works, then start the overcosts, which are permanent. What's going on with all this? That of something that initially cost 18, then it cost 15, now it costs almost it seems to me that it is 23 million euros, and we don't know how much it will cost us, but we don't know when the works are going to end either. And I like to investigate and investigate a little bit, I've been looking at the companies that are behind the UTE and I've seen that they are Lurgoien and FCC. Lurgoien, I really had no idea who he was, but FCC, I'm sure I know who they are, and, above all, the People's Party will also know them, because they talk about bribes and donations to PP by that company, with what everything meant. But I'm going further. Lurgoien, who are they? For Lurgoien are the ones who have carried out the hospital of Eibar, the metro Donostia, the fire department of Ulia, the parking lot of Egia, the elevator of Aizkorri..., with an extra cost of more than two million euros, which has already been denounced by the previous government, the City of Donostia, that through the hiring documents you were forcing the citizen to pay those extra costs. And it seems that Lurgoien works this way, because in Eibar hospital also the delays in construction and opening are being considerable. Which means we have those two companies. But looking a little further, who is Lurgoien? For Lurgoien on the board of directors, it is quite a luck, as sole administrator is Constructions Balzola, which is one of the companies preferred by the PNV to build in Bizkaia. And it is that in the end the logic is very easy: you negotiate in Madrid, contracts, cost overruns, constructions. They give all the money to the same companies and then something will come out of it. But I'm telling you, are you going to do something to stop those extra costs? Are you going to assume your responsibility? Are you going to assume what you have to do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u154	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u155	Mr López de Munain, if you have something to report you already know where you have to do it. We are talking here about the administration, about a work in the field of an administration, by the way, the administration of the State, by the way, an autonomous agency of the administration of the State, and you start to ask me and start talking about boards of directors of companies and I don't know how many more things, with which I have absolutely nothing to do. So, if you have something to say, say it where you have to say it, and don't throw numbers here, "I believe," "I seem," "I understand," "I imagine." He said he likes to do research. He knows that research must also be done with great care about what sources one uses, care must be taken about the sources one uses and, of course, not to keep the first data that one finds. We have to contrast, we have to know, we have to contrast, we have to read and we have to analyze all the data. In any case, and as for the responsibility or my specific responsibility in the construction of the Passage Range and although I have already explained it before too. You have to know a little administration. You can also investigate, this can also be investigated and you can see what are the governing bodies of the port of Passages and what are the responsibilities that concern each one. We are talking about a port of competence of the General Administration of the State. We speak of a port of competence of the General Administration of the State that functions as an autonomous agency under autonomy, but controlled and coordinated by Ports of the State, in which there is a board of administration of 15 people, of which 4 are appointed by the Basque Government. Four out of 15. Four out of 15. The rest of the members of the board of directors, in case you are interested – you can look for it, but I help you in the investigation – there are 4 members of the General Administration of the State, the mayor of Pasaia, the mayor of Renteria, 3 members of the Chamber of Commerce, 1 of the Foral Diputación de Gipuzkoa and a union representative of LAB. As I said before – and not to repeat myself with all history – an agreement was reached on the board of directors of all these people unanimously, in which they reached an agreement unanimously to go along a series of steps to clarify all the issues that had been put on the table by a report from the state's agent, who controls the state's ports. In this report or in this unanimous agreement of the board of directors, it is decided to make the audits, ordering that they be supervised by Ports of the State, Ports of the Spanish State, and that if there are indications of crimes after all of these audits, which are still being carried out, will go to the Prosecutor's Office. That's what there is. And what I'm not going to do here, and I've said it many times with other issues too, is to stand up as a judge, to dictate. It's what you do, but I really don't like it. We are going to let the organs of the State administration and also the justice system work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Daniel Maezz Perez, the parliamentary of the People of the People of Environments and Regional Policians, about the pestilence plan on the Bridges." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u157	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. All day and good day, good noon, in this case, to the chief of the Oregis. This year's 11th of April, the Environmental Department, in this case, had given the Consistration, the adaptation or modification of the consecration of the consecration of the Jewish ruins, GHK, which he had requested. That's how he got his license to start the settlement. The first reflection we have to do is a comparison. It was a similar request, at least in forms, and it was 2010. the adaptation of the conciliatory environmental permit given in the year, in this case not to make the radiator and only to make a TMB plant. In this case, first of all, the Environmental Department asked GHK for additional information, and finally, after the lapse of time, told him that this modification had to be made of substance and that it was a new union of environments. Not now, it's no substance. They continue to place a radiator and a TMB plant in it, and says it's not substantial, and support adaptation, in this case, in a three-week record period. Well, the comparisons are quite significant to us in this case, in what manner the series had, in order to exhaust the present period, and what they were at the present moment. But it's a second theme that means something to us too. And it is in this case, against what the law says, that he has not made this new arrangement in the Basque Autonomical magazine. So it's our question, why do you do that? Why isn't he published? Why does it take three weeks to give a similar resolution when it was months ago? Does the department have special interest in this subject, to place a radiator on the bridges?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u158	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Ms. Oregi, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u159	Yes, good noon again. And in answer to your question, no, the government has no special interest, and this department has no particular interest in enabling a creativity plan on the bridges.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Mazzu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u161	And if he has no particular interest, why do the like cases produce different effects? And if he has no particular interest, why, by destroying what the law says, he does not make public permission? It is granted, if you know, that the consent of the citizens is granted, as long as it is made public, as it has not been made in this case. Eta legea gave: "The modification of an installation subject to integrated environmental authorization may or may not be substantial". In this case you have estimated that it is not substantial. "If an amendment to the integrated environmental authorisation is necessary as a result of the non-substantial modification of the facility, the Autonomous Community shall publish it in its official journal." Can you bring me the publication here, please, when did it happen? And can you tell me when the date is? Because we found out through media. And the citizens have a great interest in refining it, because they don't want to throw away a plant that smokes ruins near their own house. And they don't know why, if there's nothing to hide, why it's not made public and why you're hiding it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u162	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u163	First, let me explain a subject to the project you have consulted, to the course of the environmental and local politics, the operation of the environmental impact and the union of the surrounding environment. In fact, we're talking about the wreck management center, which contains the following installations: a bioleto burial facility, an installation of narcotic waste, a package of bullets and a temporary storage facility, an installation of dry waste-riding mud and storage facility, a depot and a photobolt of depots. So they all form the center of management. As I said before, the Environmental and Regional Polic Department has no special interest in providing a crematorium on the bridges. This organ is interested in the fact that the historical regions, all of them, may have necessary infrastructure to ensure that the remains of it are managed properly. In the Gipuese, there is a rule-prediction given by this, and they are, on the one hand, the Councils of the Diets, December 17th, 2002, approved of by the Integla 2002-2016, which is supported by the 24/9 Decree of July 24/9 Decree, which is the Plane of the Underlying City of Gipuices; and lastly, in the 4th of March EE, supported by the 4th of 2015, to the Residents of the EE, and the Restunae of the EEducia EE. As to the above documents, it must also be remarked that at each moment the area of the waste was always taken in proportion to the principles which regulate the politics of the Union, as the hierarchy of the management of the waste. Thus, besides the attainment of the objects which the Government of the Union has defined, it is intended to go beyond them and overcome them. On the other hand, as to the procedure you asked me, and the publication of it, I must say that it is in its procedure, and that what the administrative procedure says is done will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-20.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has been exhausted, the whole meeting ends. It was two and fifteen in the afternoon.
