ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u0	Good morning. I give you to know that the eleventh point has been left for another, and that the points on the subject are seven, eight, twelve, and thirteen in the list, in succession to the sixth, seventh, eighth, and ninth. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the staff of Joseba Galrilla Ibañez, a member of the staff of the United States Administration and Justice, concerning the setting of the Laws on the Basque Offices." Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, members of the legislature, all good days. As you all know recently, this Chamber of Esuces, almost a month ago, has accepted the Basque Office Act. After 35 years he will form an institutional architecture, and secure the principle of the municipal euscal system. In this matter recently discussed in this House we would like to make three brief references which we consider relevant, one to the past, one to the present and finally another to the future, which will be where we will put our question. With regard to the past, it is fair to recall once again that the adoption of this law, which, as we will recall, establishes the widest possible jurisdictional framework for local Basque institutions, was possible thanks to the previous work of the Basque Nationalist Party during the processing of the Law on Rationalization and Sustainability of Local Administration in the General Courts, where it defended and asserted our historical rights and our extraneous singularity to exempt the application of this law in Basque. With regard to the present, the newly adopted Basque Local Institutions Act, together with the Gernika Autonomy Statute and the so-called Historical Territories Act, constitutes the rule of closure of the Basque institutional model, forming a model of its own and unique local regime, a Basque model of its own local autonomy and thus avoiding the restriction of municipal autonomy established by the basic state legislation through the Lersal. After its publication in the Official Gazette of the Basque Country, it entered into force on 15 April, i.e. three weeks ago, and this is where the future comes from. Once the difficult balance between the three levels of the Basque institutional system (the Basque Government, outlaws and municipalities) has been achieved and reflected in the law, with its satisfaction and, logically, with regard to the current legal framework, it is now necessary to put into practice and develop its entire structure, where, as you will recall, important mechanisms for inter-agency cooperation and coordination were established among other issues. A few days ago, at the Euskalduna Palace in Bilbao, on the day of the presentation of the law, the lehendakari said that the law now remains to be developed, a joint and intense work that corresponds to all institutional levels, especially at the local level, and also requested institutional loyalty in that work. Our question, therefore, is to direct our question to the Chief of Organization, Justice, and Public Administration, as follows: What's the initiative that RedMonka was planning to establish the law about the local housing institutions? "Qué actuciones piens a cabo el Gobierno Vasco para efectiva implantición de la Ley de Insticiones Locales de Euscadi?" That's all, thank you in advance for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u2	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. To answer, Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chiefs, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. Mr. Zorrill, as you have well observed, the law on the Basque Offices was published on the 7th of the month and a week later on in ivory, which has ceased to be a project, and is a law which opens all its legal influences. This has to change the codes for all of us, and more than now about the debate, we have to work around the app, and we have to place all our effort and effort there. Regardless, therefore, of the position that both of them have been able to maintain around the project while it was a project throughout their debate in this House, and even before it, I believe that we are all now called, at this time, to work in a coordinated way in a collaborative way to seek full and harmonious implementation, compliance with the rule. There are two lines of action on which we are already working: on the one hand, it is necessary to promote the widest possible dissemination of the law among the institutions to which it affects and among the people (fundamentally, public officials and public employees of local administrations) who are called to acquire a special role in the process of law enforcement and enforcement. To this end, a number of seminars and workshops have already been organized to disseminate, to carry out this dissemination work jointly with Eudel and with other outside and municipal administrations through the Basque Institute of Public Administration. You have indeed referred to an institutional day that took place in Bilbao, attended by more than 450 people, but we have also carried out other events, one in conjunction with the Gipuzkoa Diputation, on 29 April, and other events are scheduled during the months of May and June to promote this dissemination through the Basque Institute of Public Administration among the local government as a whole. But regardless of this effort to spread, which is bound and we are carrying out in a coordinated way, as I say, the law places duties on all the institutions that make up the institutional map of Euskadi. All, therefore, are called upon to carry out something in application of the provisions of the law and we must all act together. There are four specific provisions calling for the regulatory development of the law in articles 11, 15, 80 and additional provision 5. There are two specific mandates for municipalities to develop their transparency portals in two years and their letters of service in four years. There are mandates for Eudel to appoint its representatives to the Basque Finance Council in two months' time and to contribute jointly with the Government to the establishment of the joint commission that will attend, it will face the problem of the financing of the Basques. There is also a mandate for the Basque Public Finance Council to draw up, within one year, the analysis of competences and funding referred to in the seventh transitional provision. The outside bodies of the historical territories are entrusted with the task of implementing mechanisms for the participation of local governments in the process of drafting the outside rules provided for in article 92. There are, I insist, mandates addressed to all the institutions that make up the institutional map of the Basque Autonomous Community. We are committed, we are working in the most coordinated way possible to ensure that a law that has been passed by the House with a large majority still has greater support from all the institutions called to implement it and has full and absolute consensus in the field of local administration and the institutional whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u4	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, which is made by the members of the House of Golduzunos, to respect the President for the decisions of the citizen and institutions." Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u5	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, first of all, we must say that we asked for your special appearance because it seems very important to us for this matter, and we understand that the Poptular party has finally renounced this demand, because they are the principal cause of it, but on the other hand we can't understand why the Euquid Party rejected it. In the end, you yourself said that, you yourself said, in our days, there are more and more decisions that have been or are being attacked by the Spanish Government. There are, for instance, the housing and fracing laws, the system of educational scholarships, the question of 35-hour work, the business of the public calling of the Border, the education system, or Osacment, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. Finally, what we're looking at is that the autonomical construction itself is digging through, because they're emptying in hand from Madrid, and we're really worried about the situation. Finally, we think that our institutions and our institutions are the decisions that are being attacked from the government of Madrid. In front of this, on behalf of EH Collect, we believe that we should all agree to a strategy of defending these decisions and our institutions. We think that we should agree with each other. We don't know if there's any will for that or not from the President and I'm telling you about it, we don't feel like it. And on this side it seems to us that it may be difficult to say that we want a greater degree of independence, when we are unable to defend what we have. And we've just heard that in the press where we read it, you've just refused to join the ELA union. We read yesterday in press that the lehendakari refused to meet with ELA, with an attitude that in our opinion cannot be that of a lehendakari. A lehendakari has to be willing to sit down and listen to what he likes to hear and what he doesn't like to hear too. And in our case, what we are asking, what we are also asking the lehendakari is, without the need for any arrogance or arrogance or pride, but if it would not be necessary a little more firmness, of that firmness displayed with regard to, for example, the majority union of the Basque Autonomous Community, a little bit of that firmness with regard to which it does not allow us to materialise the decisions we make in our own institutions and with which day by day our competitive framework is emptying, thus preventing us from fully developing the social and economic policies that we would like for the good of our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u6	Thank you, Mr. Ray. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u7	Chief of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen of the department, all good days. Mr. Ray, if you like, we can talk about ELA another time. I see, on the other hand, that you mentioned the letter, but not the contents of the letter. I wish, if you have read the contents of the letter, we may talk of the contents of the letter at another time, if you like. But, yes, an effective association and strategy are indispensable today to defend the self-organization, Mr. Ariz. And also to ensure that the future and the agreement will be fulfilled, as you put it. It is true that the Government of Spain is developing a central strategy, and I shall not repeat so many cases as you have mentioned. In this law, however, we have been obliged to introduce 33 appeals, and to appeal to 33. And on the other hand, the reports we sent to this legislature on the 15th of September show central strategy. So, and in answer to yours, there's a Spanish government strategy, yes, and the Eusk0 is playing this strategy and he's facing it. In fact, this parliamentor claims to be in charge of the appeals to the laws of the Eucomune, our firm and firm attitude in the presence of the Constitutional Court, this parliamentor asks us for it. Therefore, in answer to yours, I should say that it would be very convenient for this law to agree with a strong strategy of self-gravity, and that I think it is there, in order to make up your mind to make another place for my exhibition of you, in order to make a decision which is not yet decided, as well as yours. This law ought to establish a solid strategy for the auto-generacy, and, together with other undertakings, the crew of self-generacy was also formed. It's never too late, Mr. Ariz, to share a diagnosis inside that band and plan a proposal. This option remains open, and it would be very convenient for us to undertake it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Ray, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u9	Thank you. Lehendakari jauna, to be more concrete and more direct perhaps, we would like to know – because in the self-government presentation we are with the Basque Nationalist Party, among other parties, and we are willing to carry that work and that dynamic of collaboration, of course – but we would like to know what is the pillar of this government's strategy to defend our institutions and its own decisions, whether there is going to be a strategy to define and agree with other political parties, with other political formations like ours, which would be willing to do it, or if its only strategy is to wait and sit and see if Spanish citizens decide to change government, and that would be our only strategy to defend our own institutions. Or if, on the contrary, we and we are going to do something for our own sake, to defend our own and even to extend our margins of decision to full sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u10	Thank you, Mr. Ray. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Arraiz, on 15 September we submitted the reports requested by the self-government presentation, in which we stated that the State is exercising – and I quote – "recentralizing policies of structural nature of unknown intensity so far". Faced with this situation, I stand for a response strategy, a shared strategy, a political and institutional strategy, and this House can do a lot. The opportunity we have in the context of the presentation, which has to agree on a shared diagnosis of self-government and lay the foundations for its updating, and on this basis it is necessary to agree on a new status that recognizes the uniqueness that the history recognizes, that allows the updating of self-government. An agreement that is ratified and respected, a pact that introduces guarantees of effective compliance. History offers us the formula of the historical rights of the foral territories, also the guarantee of bilaterality through the foral pass or overcard. I have raised, before you ask me, the appropriateness of updating the foral pass by legally articulating the postponement of the rules dictated by the State until their interpretation and effective application with the Basque institutions are negotiated. The foral pass is the way to update the past to share the future, to share the future, is the guarantee of a balanced coexistence and from mutual respect. I advocate, I insist, for updating the foral pass. Beraz, foru-baimenea was raised egin duet, eta lantalde horretan aukera dago hori adosteko. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: The question is, "Jo Azkue Manterola, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the President, of the economic and social proportions of the region affected by the crisis of steel." Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u13	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, two weeks ago, this legislature decided to advance a step more on the crisis of steel. On a socialist initiative, we decided that it was not enough to continue to demand that Europe act and that the Government of Spain act – which as well. We decided that we had to act from here, with all our powers, and it is no wonder that we have exclusive competence in industry, according to Article 10.30 of our Statute. This is what we decided, and unanimously, that is not a small thing. I think we did well to send a clear message to those who are currently threatened by their future, especially in certain regions, with settlements of large companies that threaten to dismantle their activities fully. We send that message to the direct workers and also to the indirect workers, and to all those populations, which is what the Socialists expressly wanted to take into account. Because do not forget that the ERE negotiations do not take into account the auxiliary industries, the transporters, the workers of the ports, the merchants and the hoteliers, who suffer from the zero minute the plant stops. Two days later, these workers went out on the street in Bilbao with this same claim, a real industrial policy that they miss. The Arcelor de Zumárraga committee transferred this anguish to us in committee and demanded our response. Lehendakari, you have a claim from thousands of people, you have a mandate and unanimous support from this Parliament. That is why I ask you, in the face of this cry, whether you have a real plan and whether that plan goes through the reorganization of budget lines in order to promote strategies for the viability of companies at risk, in order to guarantee the direct jobs, the indirect ones, the eventual ones; in short, the plants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u14	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. Mr. Azuke, as you have said, the steel crisis is global, unfortunately, not just Euskanatic, but this one, as I have mentioned here, has had several initiatives to face this crisis, not only because, now, we've begun to consider that the price of energy was a terrible evil. And just as yesterday we had the opportunity to analyse in a study carried out by the Orkestra itself, by the Energy Chair, really, the price of energy is a serious problem that we are working on, in addition to initiatives carried out in Europe that are really important in order to deal with the Chinese dumping that is taking place and where lehendakari has been present since January itself. That is true of initiatives that have taken place in two areas that are not directly within our competence, but where, in the absence of others, we have had to act directly and have been in each of the areas in which it has been possible. As for what it refers to our own tools, as you said, as regards the plants of ACB and the plant of Arcelor in Zumarraga, obviously, as it refers to the two plants our plan is that of always, that with which we have always acted in plants in difficulty, in companies in difficulty, by the hand of the workers and by the hand of the company. As a government, we can never replace private initiative. We have to work hand in hand, and we have proposed, as you know – and the last of the options was precisely after the Zumarraga works council here in this Parliament – that we have proposed to Arcelor to carry out at the hands of the Basque institutions a feasibility plan that allows us to jointly analyse investments to be carried out, training plans and all the actions necessary to reactivate the regions socially and economically. We have a meeting with the company's management in the near future and we hope to be able to work on this viability plan. I insist, by the hand of the company and by the hand of the workers, with a full agreement both on the steel table constituted and with each of the committees, on ACB in one case and on Zumarraga in the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u17	Well, indeed, you have us behind you in everything you need in the face of Arcelor Mittal's crises and in the face of all the attempts we should make with regard to trying not to close or shut down any plant; from time to time, even ahead. In any case, the question was to the lehendakari because we think that something is necessary that I know, counselor, that you do not like: whether we have industrial policy or not. I heard it a few days ago at the Forum Europe, and I understand you don't like it, but the industrial policies that are worth – at least in our country, which has always been industrial – are those that are able to prevent such situations, that are able to prevent independently crises, that also do not come by themselves, but that usually come with an analytical capacity, so we also have to take action. To that we Socialists come today, to say, "Look, we have budgets, we have a lot of programs, but they are not valid right now to solve this type of crisis. "Change." That's why we asked for the lehendakari to be involved. Why? Because we said, "Change whatever budgets there are, make it possible for a different response to the current crisis." There are no equal crises, and the answers have to be different. That is why, ma'am, I was telling you that there is no proper industrial policy, and we must have it. It cannot be bequeathed to this Government without it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u18	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u19	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Azkue jauna, what you were listening to me last Wednesday is that you were saying..., not that I don't like being told that there is no industrial policy, but that they accept that there really is an industrial policy; that it will be better, that we will like some measures or we won't like others, but that industrial policy in this country exists. And I accept the criticisms, obviously, as long as they are constructive. Therefore, accepted, but always during these years, of these three and a half years of legislature, with the lehendakari at the head – obviously I am responsible, but it is he who presides over the Governing Council, as it cannot be otherwise – we set in motion in each of the crises and in each of the individualised solutions companies, because, as you say, there are no equal solutions. In this case, I insist, being this global steel crisis, it is not something that has become us only because in Euskadi it has been done in one way or another, and you are aware of that, I think we are facing a few critical weeks at this time for the plants of Zumarraga and ACB. Prudence and daily work, by the hand of the workers and by the hand of the company. That is what we have to do: to analyse in detail the possibilities, to analyse in detail what we can do, under what conditions, and the necessary budget lines we will see later, but always with the involvement of companies in a discreet way and with an analysis, obviously, adapted to each of the needs, always with the utmost prudence and not generating false expectations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u20	Thank you, chief physician. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Basque Group to the president, after verifying the failure of the profession on the recovery of it." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. President. The president, the chief physician, the members of the legislature. We direct this question to the president, how a member of his government can reorganize the profession after he has accepted his defeat. Yes, Mr Lehendakari, it seems a lie that we have to ask you this question at the end of the parliamentary term and on a subject in which you have full and proper competence. Of course, there are no re-centralizing ghosts here. With a huge budget, with a system that has an entry door and no exit door, with a number of undue charges that reach the figure of EUR 128 million, of which barely 13 % has been recovered, with a brokerage rate of 3.13%, which is not going to meet the target that you set yourself of 5 %, with a system that no one recognises as seeking employment, as your vice-counsel, a member of your own government, has found, we therefore ask you what criteria will be adopted in the short, medium and long term to reorient Lanbide, once a member of your own government has found its failure and is thus useful to Basque society.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u22	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u23	The President, the President, the chief of departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. Garrido andere estimates, this government has not found Lanbide to have failed, I sincerely say. You are referring to statements that were not correct and for which the Deputy Councillor himself has publicly apologized. He had also apologized to the workers by letter, which had been welcomed. It was the intention of the deputy office to talk about the roots of the profession in the short future, if it is the object of the job being introduced into the world as a public service, in order to make this work possible in an effective manner. Today the profession has a strategic planning to achieve ends marked by the yearly management plan. Besides, this government has a job plan. Besides, at the moment, Profession is working for the ISO-9001 quality certificate, so this year we'll get that. The profession offers a great deal of service to the Basque People, so that we cannot admit that the profession is not useful. And to say that the profession has a way to improve it, yes, of course! Occupations as well as all institutions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u24	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u25	I respect the advisor absolutely, but we see once again that this lehendakari is unable to face the fundamental problem that Basques have, which is employment. Look, Mr Lehendakari, I am going to put today the thousands of Basque citizens who see how your Government, which you preside over, is wasting all of our money and is unable to put the fundamental instrument that we have, the active employment policies, at the service of the main problem that we have, which is employment. His ineffective management at Lanbide's head, of course, is a sign of his inaction as a government. They have been watching them come and have been unable to grab the bull by the horns, as we have seen here today, when you don't even come out to this rostrum. Absolute passivity and the lack of management and the lack of results in this area, when their slogan were people, was the slogan of your Government, in the main problem that the Basques have, Mr. lehendakari, is their personal failure. Now, surely, the counselor in your answer will take something out of the joke, some propaganda announcement to those who have us used to and in what you have become an expert. But you are no longer worth it, Mr Lehendakari, because the figures are so strong, the figures of your management, the figures of your management at the head of Lanbide, which are continually leaving you in evidence. And he is not worth it when there are members of his government saying out loud what everyone thinks, Lanbide's futility. Yes, Mr. Lehendakari, you're not fooling anyone. And what are you going to do, Mr Lehendakari, to turn this situation around and to put once and for all in the service of all Basques a service in which we have full competence, such as active employment policies, and to put them once and for all in the service of Basque citizenship? Let me tell you, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Councillor, that our confidence in what you are going to announce now is null and void. Nothing because they have listened deafly to all the proposals that this party has put on the table in positive form, all the proposals and things that we have had to hear and see. And secondly, because you're already on discount time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u27	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs Garrido, we are faced with some unfortunate statements that have already been apologized to, and you mention them alone to mess with our lehendakari. Do not use it to charge against a system, Lanbide, which has made significant progress during this legislature, significantly. I would like to stress that mediation is the last link in a chain that begins with knowledge of the skills and profile of the unemployed person. And here Lanbide's work begins, knowing the skills and needs he has, equipping him with the necessary training to develop new skills that will help him better position himself in the search for employment. Intermediation is the final winch, the final winch. The important thing is that unemployed people can offer businesses what they need and achieve the best possible employment. I'm just going to move a few examples. The number of personalized diagnoses by guidance services has increased by 180% since 2013, by 180%. The number of personalized itineraries has increased by 70%. More than 2,000 training actions have been carried out, involving more than 25,000 people, and this has led to a 25% increase in training plans. After this training – and this is an important fact – more than 40% of people have obtained work within six months. We have gone from 4,000 companies offering jobs in 2013 to almost 6,000, Mrs Garrido. Mrs Garrido, your party, she herself, in the last secret conference in Madrid, in an Eplegu and a report of the Ministry of Social Security, accepts a good job in the profession. You should take it, too. You should take it, too. And do you not think, Mrs Garrido, that you can look at all the communities of the People's Party or others ruled by other parties that are in Spain to see what their brokerage rates are, to see what are the achievements of their management? Do you not think, Mrs Garrido, that the time has also come for us to make comparisons and not to put Lanbide at the foot of horses when Lanbide has made very significant improvements throughout this legislature? We know we have things to do, we know we have things to do, but don't back off the achievements we've achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u28	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Five point in theme list: "To ask the question, Gorka Maniroy's Mistto-UPyD members made to the president for the utility of the profession." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u29	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Members of the Government, Mr Lehendakari, Employment Adviser, in fact, you have recently fully explained what your Government's achievements have been in terms of Lanbide and employment. His Deputy Employment Advisor said a few days ago: "My children don't even get through their heads to sign up for Lanbide to look for a job, because little is there." Summary of the work done by this Government in relation to Lanbide. But it's not just that, but you yourself months ago, not too many months ago, he said, "Companies don't go to Lanbide. They have their own recruitment mechanisms and pass from Lanbide." You said this yourself, responsible for Employment. His deputy counselor a few days ago said what he said, that his children couldn't even go to Lanbide to look for a job, and you said what you said a few months ago. Finally, it seems difficult to understand whether those who are most responsible for the operation of the Basque Employment Service question the usefulness of this body and reiterate that it is not an effective tool either for businesses or for workers or for people who want to seek employment. But this is what the members of the government themselves say. It is not that they arrived at these posts three days ago, that they recognize that there are many things to be done and, indeed, put themselves to it, but that they are people who should have done a job that they have not done. That is why the question, of course, is direct to the lehendakari: do you still trust your team? Do you still trust those responsible who have made these statements? Do you find these statements reasonable? And another thing, Counselor. You said recently that the vice-counsel has apologized. But why has the Vice-Counselor apologized: for saying what he should have kept quiet or for not doing his job correctly during these years? This is important, that is, one can apologize because, in fact, he acknowledges that he has failed to do his job or because, at one point, he said what he should not have said. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u31	Madame President, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning again. Dear Mr. Maneiro – also dearly esteemed – the department I run is able, satisfactorily, with responsibility, with illusion and with work, to meet the challenge to which we have been called. I have total confidence in every person and every one of them. Not only do I trust the charges, I also trust all the people who work in our department. I will recall again – and it will not be the last time in today's session – that the statements to which he refers were not correct; that the deputy councillor himself publicly apologized; that he also apologized to the workers through a letter, and I reiterate – and we know – that he was received with gratitude and closeness among the workers of Lanbide. We are people who work for a government that works for people, with the best of intentions and from the conviction that what we do serves to build a better Euskadi, the best Euskadi that we are capable of. This is not to be disconcerted, as you told me yesterday, is to make the principle of reality prevail over that of desire. The adults – at least the responsible adults – we work in this area. We do not leave our wishes behind, we maintain them and we long for them, but we know that they are not always possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u33	Thank you, President. Dear and dear Councillor, you have not answered one of the questions at least, why did the Vice-Councillor apologize, if for saying what he should have kept quiet or for not doing his job? He said his children would never go to Lanbide because little work is there. In other words, he is acknowledging that one of the work he had to have done during these months, during these years, has not done it, and he says so publicly. This person has to resign, Mr. lehendakari. It's obvious you have to resign! He acknowledges years ago that one of his main work that he had to have done has not done so. And that their children, as a result of that badly done job, would never actually point to Lanbide to look for a job. The logic is overwhelming: he has not performed his task. When a person does not perform his or her task on a government team, what he or she has to do is resign. What happens is that, in this particular case, of course, he says it publicly. He says so publicly. Is that the mistake, to say it publicly, Counselor? Did he have to shut up? Or is the error that you failed to perform your task correctly? Me, what I think is that you have to resign. By the way, all you do is ask for new skills. They have Lanbide's competition, and it works like it works, which is an absolute disaster. It is recognized by the councillor himself and the deputy councillor himself. Do not ask for so many skills and exercise correctly those you already have.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u35	Thank you, ma'am. Mr Maneiro, do not fall into the easy resource of using a human error to land on a system that protects, favors inclusion and works on people in Euskadi. Through Lanbide, benefits are managed that guarantee living conditions for many families; in particular, more than 65,000 living units that affect more than 120,000 people. Benefits, moreover, which have a positive impact; which also have a positive impact on society in general, and not only on its people; which contribute to the process that has fundamentally changed Euskadi's position in Spain in terms of indicators of access to employment. For these people, Lanbide does. In addition, Lanbide serves more than 250,000 people who are registered as job seekers. He can do it better; he can do it as he can, and he can do it better and better. As I have indicated above, it carries out training activities involving more than 25,000 people. Lanbide is in contact with 6,000 people or companies offering employment. And it's also good for these. It can always serve more, I do not deny it, and we continue to work on it and we will continue to do so. Local employment plans for the most needy unemployed are being developed, along with the municipalities, and cover municipal needs. The progress that has been made in Lanbide is significant. It would not have been possible without the involvement of the people who work in the service (almost one thousand), without the involvement of these people whom I have to thank as advisor for the effort and work they have done during this legislature. Mr Maneiro, I am going to ask you what I have asked Mrs Garrido: do not use it to charge against a system that has made significant progress during this parliamentary term. And I'm done. The statements you are making remind me of a saying that we have used this week in a campaign called: "ZAS! Usteak erdia ustel." Join the ZAS network too! (Zurrumuruen aurkako salt). Let's stop the rumors that come rotten. Do not want to stigmatize and discredit a young but progressing service that will progress continuously. Why did you apologize? Because he was wrong. And to be wrong is to be human. If you've never been wrong, don't apologize. They won't be needed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u36	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpology, the Mist of Gorka Maniroy, a member of the President's House ofUPyD, to face the attempt to justify the criminal history of Arnnaldo and the State of the United States." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u37	Thank you, President. Mr Lehendakari, last week the leader of Sortu and express for terrorist activities Arnaldo Otegi went to the European Parliament and participated in various acts of political propaganda, in order to whitewash his own history of continued relationship with ETA and the history of the whole Abertzale left and the terrorist gang itself. Basically, for this he went to Parliament, to whitewash the history of ETA, to tell a series of lies. During his propaganda tour, he made a number of statements which we understand are insulting and contempting the victims of terrorism and the whole of Basque society, which the Basque Parliament and yourself, Mr Lehendakari, as representatives of the Basque citizens, must not, we must not let go. Thus, the expression for terrorist activities came to say that "We have all been victims of the same conflict and we will not make distinctions between each other because suffering is measured on the same scale for all." He also criticized the Government of Spain and praised its own political parish, pointing out something that we believe is absolutely unacceptable: that all political prisoners must go out on the street, and the deportees and refugees must return home. "When a conflict is over, the person who has participated in it is not kept in prison." These statements are unacceptable, Mr Lehendakari, and we believe that they must be strongly rejected by yourself and by Parliament itself, so let us make it clear that there are no political prisoners in Spain and that the escapees from Spanish justice are not political refugees. On a lower floor where the express gave his talk in the Eurocamera, a group of democrats, worthy people, concentrated next to the hall of plenary to denounce the presence of Otegi and keep a minute of silence in memory of the victims of terrorism, an act organized by two Euro MPs, Maite Pagazaurtundúa and Teresa Jiménez-Becerril, who again gave an example of dignity in facing their truth to the lies of the express. This Basque Parliament and the Lehendakari itself must raise the voice in defence of the dignity of Basque society in the face of the purpose of some to whitewash their own history and the terrorist history of ETA. A character with his or her trajectory cannot go through the European institutions intending to teach democracy lessons, scorning or insulting the victims of terrorism, or calling political prisoners the prisoners of ETA, without the lehendakari and this Parliament clearly saying that he is lying. This is what we put forward in this inquiry, that you and all of us then, or almost all of us, make it clear that these statements made by Otegi are absolutely unacceptable. You have to say that, in fact, you are not willing to accept Otegi's claim to whitewash ETA's criminal history. I believe that you and all of us must once again say in this Parliament that neither Spain nor Euskadi have political prisoners, that ETA prisoners have been convicted of offences perfectly defined in the Criminal Code. He must say that people fleeing justice could not be described as Basque refugees because they had committed a number of crimes. You cannot, in short, allow yourself to remain silent as this character walks through Europe telling these lies that, in the end, I think humiliate us or try to humiliate the whole of Basque society. Basque society does not admit these approaches, Basque society does not admit these lies of Arnaldo Otegi, Basque society is a worthy society, it is a decent society, and this Parliament and this lehendakari have to say these things clearly and make themselves available to that worthy, decent and democratic Basque society. This is basically the objective of this inquiry: that you, in the end, do not say, not too many things perhaps, but yes those two or three things that I think you should not only but can say perfectly. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u38	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, Mr Arnaldo Otegi is the secretary general of a legal political party. He was invited to a closed session by a group of nine women parliamentarians from the Green Group, four from the European Left Group and one from the Romanian People's Party. This is a legal activity carried out within the individual visits provided for in the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament itself. He is a person, Mr Arnaldo Otegi, who has the right to travel abroad, who has the right to participate in this forum, who has the right to express his opinion. You have been invited in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. He has attended, he has had the opportunity to express his opinion and I imagine he will have heard others too. There is nothing institutionally reprehensible to the European Parliament. Following your inquiry, there are two issues that deserve special attention. Firstly, the dimension of the act: it was not the European Parliament that invited Mr Otegi to his seat. The European Parliament has 751 MEPs. In fact, the Secretary-General of Sortu received an individual invitation from 14 MEPs to attend a meeting in a closed room. This is the real dimension of the act to which you refer. I therefore do not have to comment on the activities carried out by these MEPs, nor on the operation and regulation of the Eurochamber. I do affirm that this meeting has been held without any problem. Therefore, the question is: who has actually acted as the resonance box of an intervention that was so limited in scope? The answer is that they are media and political actors, as well as you, who manage to amplify and increase the public impact of one of the thousands of meetings held in Parliament. Secondly, what I want to say is, what I mean is, what the great secretary of creation said is so serious, that it must be taken in hand by exception. Look, our society, as you say, is ripe. The gentleman of the bakers expresses and expresses what he thinks fit. Upon this foundation the citizens form a criterion, and give their opinion in the elections. This is the point in the sphere of a system of democracy founded on the respect of multiplicity. As you say, the prices of an exceptional answer must be arranged, and I think you're mistaken. Perhaps that noise suits you very well, though I doubt it seriously. Nevertheless, I am convinced that this society is not suited to exceptions, but to normality, that is, to normalize political discussion. The agreements and disagreements we have with the united EH are here expressed every week in the legislature, even in the Parliament of Europe. Even every day through media. Society and people are apt to appreciate what each one says or does. You are now asking us by exceptions, which we do with unusuality and propriety in our daily discussions. This is done every day by establishing our institutions, and defending our political proposals, Mr. Maniro. This is the foundation of political discussion, of discussions of ideas, and of democracy, which is the reality which we have always wished for in the Euskade, and which is precisely what we have just now. You, Mr Maneiro, come to say that we have to intervene exceptionally in the face of public statements. You suggest that exceptional replica measures should be articulated, and I sincerely believe that you are wrong. Our discrepancies with Sortu or with EH Bildu are obvious, they are common, they are known, and these discrepancies are expressed here, in this Basque Parliament, and also in the European Parliament. What you ask us to do in an exceptional, extraordinary, scandalized and strident way, we do with the normality of the daily debate. We do so by setting our institutional positions and defending our political proposals. We do so normally, habitually, in this very House. We do it in front of the media and we do it in front of society. This is the essence of the political debate and the reality that we have always wanted for Euskadi and with which we now count. It is clear, Mr Maneiro, that we have important differences with Sortu and EH Bildu in relation to the management of the past, the assessment that the history of ETA deserves or the decisions to be taken for its disarmament and final dissolution, also on the steps to be taken and not completed in prison policy. The position of the Basque Government is known and reiterated. Clearly, we do not share ethical principles, which are not the same. It's obvious. We have also achieved agreements and progress with the Abertzale Left. We have participated together in acts of recognition of victims of different signs and in actions of the Institute of Memory, Co-existence and Human Rights. In another order, we have taken forward, for example, the municipal law. By the way, you too, Mr Maneiro, are now being scandalized, but you have had no inconvenience in joining your votes to EH Bildu whenever you are interested, you have done so on many occasions in this House. All this is, in fact, the reflection of a country, a society and a policy that are passing from the abnormality to which ETA terrorism and violence towards political normality and the normalization of coexistence have subjected us for decades. Literally, Mr. Maneiro, I am asked – and I open quotes – "about the way I intend to deal with the lies told by Arnaldo Otegi during his propaganda tour, which represent a contempt and insult to the victims of ETA terrorism". And I answer you with several questions, Mr. Maneiro. Do you prefer an answer from exceptionality or from normality? An answer to remain anchored in the past or to move forward in the future? A response from the exclusion trenches or a response to an integrated society with inclusive coexistence? As lehendakari I assure you that I will not accept a construction of coexistence based on the oblivion of what ETA terrorism has meant or any other form of violence. To that end, we have guided the policies of clarifying the past, of memory and of recognizing the unjust damage done to the victims, and this is the basic premise. On that basis, the answer you ask me in your inquiry is based on democratic normality, the inclusion of pluralism and the future of coexistence. You know my ethical principles and my political position. You also know, although in your initial speech you did not want to acknowledge it, that I have already spoken on the questions you have raised, I have already spoken in this forum, I have already spoken publicly, even today in a radio interview on Radio Nacional for the Spanish State as a whole. I said it. Look, I leave you the democratic distortion of exceptionality, the trench of exclusion and the anchor of the past. Obviously, Mr Otegi's position on the past does not coincide at all with mine. However, this does not imply that he does not recognize his right to put his ideas into the political and parliamentary debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u41	Thank you. Lehendakari, as usual, is so common that it is daily that this Parliament positions itself on certain statements by other political actors or on certain actions by this Government or even by other governments. It's usual, it's daily, we always do. There are initiatives by the different groups on different issues, which are ultimately positioned in relation to the things that have been said by certain people or the things that have been done by certain political leaders when we consider these issues to be important. Therefore, here we ask the same thing, because we are talking about an issue that directly affects us, it is the essential issue, we are talking about freedom, democracy, respect for the victims of terrorism, of doing justice, of not allowing anyone to pretend to whitewash history. And, therefore, no, we do not ask for any exceptional measures, we do not ask for any response raised from the trenches. No, no, what we are seeking is for you and this Parliament to stand in relation to a series of statements which we consider to be indecent and entrepreneurship made by Mr Otegi, or, rather, by Otegi. That is what we propose, but with absolute normality. And it is normal for you to ask that in this Parliament, in addition to telling us everything you have told us about who Otegi is, how it was in the European Parliament, the Rules of Procedure of the European Parliament and everything else, not to focus on the substance, the importance, what I asked you about. In other words, it should be placed in relation to the statements made by Otegi when he claims that there are political prisoners. Do you agree with this statement by Otegi? Do you consider that there are Basque refugees abroad? This is what I am asking you about, and I believe that you and your Government and the Basque Parliament, by a vast majority, should say that there are no political prisoners and there are no Basque refugees. Basically, this, and something else, but from the most absolute democratic normality. We already know that there are political discrepancies or that you have political discrepancies with other political formations and with EH Bildu, but this is not the important thing. Don't tell me that I sometimes agree with the representatives of EH Bildu. What am I going to do: vote otherwise because they are going to vote one thing or abstain? No, it wouldn't make sense. This, in short, is outside the debate that I have put to you. We are talking about much more serious things, we are talking about a criminal, a criminal, a collaborator of ETA at the time who has walked through Europe trying to whitewash ETA's criminal history. ETA is a terrorist gang that mainly attacked Basque citizens, you are the lehendakari and therefore you have to go out to the public debate to say that these statements are entrepreneurship and indecent, but that's what any Democrat would do. Do not make electoral calculations, Mr Lehendakari, you are right now the lehendakari of all Basques; therefore, you have to behave first as a Democrat. And in the face of Otegi's shameful statements, what he has to say is that they are unacceptable and that he is not going to allow him to try to whitewash the history of ETA, that there are no political prisoners and that there are no Basque refugees. This is what you have to say, two or three things. You accuse, accuse or accuse certain people of doing resonance boxes. Mrs. Jiménez-Becerril has done Otegi's speaker, are you saying that? Because he told the face that "My brother didn't go to any war, he killed ETA. In Spain there was no war, there was democracy." Or when Maite Pagazaurtundua said that "Just as it is impossible to imagine this Parliament welcoming and giving the floor to a jihadist terrorist who had been convicted of the subway and airport attacks in Brussels, it is also difficult to imagine the voice of ETA speaking from the very heart of European democracy". But this is what all democrats have to say, and you have to say it, because you're referring to a terrorist gang that mainly attacked Basque citizens, and you, as a representative of Basque citizens, instead of putting yourself on the defensive every time I ask you something, what you have to do is act more naturally. Don't think about the elections, say clearly that these statements by Otegi are entrepreneurship. We are going to bring a motion for this Parliament to say what I believe a democratic society should say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u42	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, if I say what I think is that I think about elections and if you say what you think is that you don't think about elections? Look, Mr Maneiro, it is usual, it is daily, it is ordinary, you said, to put this Parliament in place. It's usual, it's everyday, it's ordinary for me as a lehendakari to stand in the face of the facts that you claim to stand in the face of. I told him in my first speech, I already did it on Friday last week, I did it publicly before the entire audience of the Spanish State that could follow the interview on Radio Nacional. I therefore have nothing more to say, unless I have listened to your speech, Mr Maneiro, I have taken a stand on the questions that you have asked here, I have taken a stand here, so much so that you can make up your mind at this moment so that I can say here what I have said on many occasions, in full monographs, in full monographs, in actions also in relation to the victims of terrorism. Mr Maneiro, when I hear your speech, I shall speak very clearly. I sincerely believe that there is a great deal of demagogy in your interventions. For you, the central concern is not the victims, your interest is in reality focused on expressing the possibilities of achieving media presence at the expense of victims and terrorism. This is what it has been doing in full for four years, without wanting to pay attention to what in this plenary the Lehendakari and the parliamentarians of the Basque Nationalist group are constantly saying on the basis of our ethical principles, on the basis of our political principles, on the basis of what is true history. You are shocked to see that the visit of the Secretary-General of Sortu is a change from what already existed in the European Parliament itself. Yes, Mr. Maneiro, you are also talking about this in the justification of your inquiry. I would remind you that the Abertzale left has its own MEP, who expresses similar opinions in that Chamber as Mr Otegi offered, only that instead of doing so in a closed room with 14 people, as Mr Otegi did, 14 people, the MEP does in the Chamber, before 751 MEPs, Mr Maneiro. Let's talk about it now. You said here, in this very rostrum, in your last speech today, "Mr. Otegi is a criminal." You said it and it'll have been recorded. Let's talk about the present and talk about the future. You know well, like me, that there were MEPs who tried to prevent Mr Otegi's visit, who tried to prevent his presence and his word. And the answer was strong and it was given by the President of the European Parliament himself, Mr Martin Schulz, who responded to those who proposed the ban: "I understand their feelings, but against this kind of individual invitations I cannot act". Look, you, Mr. Maneiro, are back on the table today, but over the last few years, when you've been interested – and it bothers you that I remind you in the first intervention – you've had no inconvenience in joining your votes to that political group to which you refer today as the one responsible for "blanking the criminal history of ETA". You said it again here in your speech. You have repeatedly joined UPyD's votes with EH Bildu's votes. And you have done so even if you want to hide it with stratagems of parliamentary technical procedure, Mr Maneiro. We all know it perfectly well in this House, Mr Maneiro. Look, the victory of peace, coexistence and democracy, also the victory of the victims, is that the response of society and politics is based on the democratic normality, the inclusion and the future of coexistence, all this on the premise of a critical memory of what happened, a memory that remembers and affirms that killing was wrong and that the damage to the victims was unjust. This is what I demand and this is the firm, clear and sustained road map from the first day by this Government and by the Peace and Co-existence Plan. The social encounter is the greater value to which we guide our action. We owe it to the victims, we owe it to the new generations and we owe it also to the generation of our elders. We need peace with memory, we need coexistence with memory, and this is the social encounter, this is the strategic project of country and society that defends this Government. Ask and ask as much as you wish, Mr Maneiro, but this is going to be the answer you receive from this Government: peace and coexistence with memory, normalization and social encounter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interlation, made by the members of the United States of Arri Zulaika Portillo, the President of the United States, in order to prevent the young members of the Basque Autonomy from going outside." Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u45	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Last week, Mr. Urkullu, at a meeting with the young men of PNV you sent them "pensara al extraerior como una portentidad," aunque el reto debe ser volver Euskidi" and "because thepres market is global and must be seen as an opportunity to go out in search of a job." These are serious expressions made of levity. The situation of the arabans, Biscay, and the young men of Gipulia is very difficult, and many of the young people have gone abroad, and are still seeking employment, because they are unable or very difficult to find a worthy employment here. In this situation, it is a serious matter to sell what the President has really become of need to young men. Ye try to crowd a false message: Everything's fine. Reality, on the other hand, is crude to a lot of people. He's mostly deaf, especially young people. And before that, I'm sure you won't make any effective measurements from public politics. In other words, he's almost out of measure. Since the crisis began, it is calculated that about 10,000 young people have gone abroad to look for a job, which is the reality of their daily lives. And what's behind the work-migration? EGK makes it very clear in the SOS report, and shows what kind of process the young people have in their lives and what influences our society. There are many who are determined to depart, and many have a higher form than many others. But, apart from the formation, everyone has a lot of things and things to be left behind: family, friends, culture, projects, social movements, associations, even those which are left without participation in the young men who are so necessary here. And the states which arise even when they are abroad are very different, some in comparison of others. Some of them find a fine professional opportunity, a worthy job that they cannot get here, with a salary sufficient to satisfy their needs. Some decide to develop their life project abroad. Others, however, have not had such luck, and are plunging into the presidency even when they are abroad. And lastly, there are those who do not find work, and they are gradually exhausted by their savings, and frequently violated by their rights. And it's often hard for them to come back. A great many young people escape from the Prefect here, and it is perhaps a greater prelude, which they meet with sometimes in a foreign country. If this were few, they met with a great many other difficulties to prevent the preparation, and the net of the community of their friends and family disappears abroad. In a foreign country also, to perform a great deal of right and need, money is indispensable. And what happens if those in the presidency have not enough money for worthy conditions of life? Well, if there's no medical agreement, they'll have to pay for health insurance. And if they fire them out of the house, they stay in the street. The obstacles which young men meet are different, both in Europe and other continents, but there are almost always obstacles. What about rights? Yes, there are a number of countries where the rights are better than the ones here, but unfortunately there are even worse people than the ones here: the rights of labor... , but not only the rights of labour: sexual and refractivative rights, affected multiplicity, etc. But not only when obstacles are abroad. Even when they return, they continue with difficulties or difficulties. The administrations here do not distinguish between the present forced emigrate and the other emigration functions. And to give them a census of their origin has severe consequences: they lose the right of obtaining a pension of unemployment, or they have no right to hire revenues to ensure their incomes. The opportunity to vote, for instance, loses. When they come back, after that career you sell as an opportunity, they go back to the raw prevarine. In order to form, to learn languages, to practice, they have, but they find the work of a prevaricative return home. That's how you welcome them, Mr. Urkullu, offering them the ticket. In this dreadful context, therefore, the President of a people may either encourage the young to go abroad, or ask them to see him as an opportunity, but only for two races: the first, ignorance, the serious hypothesis, because your office is important enough to know this context; or the second reason, to refuse to take responsibility, the temptation to leave the responsibility you have. And the conclusion is to throw out sentences that are very painful against a collective that is very vulnerable. You tell me, Mr. President, the way we're supposed to stay. Anyway, what you said is that you don't really know the situation of the Basque youth, you're in the Antipodes of reality. Or doesn't it seem to you that the situation for Basque youth is very complicated? I'm just going to give you some data. The unemployment rate is more than 30%. 60% of young people have no income. In Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, six out of 10 people living in poverty are under 35 years of age. In addition, young people entering employment do not have a much more favourable situation: 22% of young people with jobs do not arrive at the end of the month. 95% of contracts for young people are temporary and 42% are less than one year old. Young people are more likely than the rest to be fired, the ratio is one to six. And the last data I will give you: the wage gap is about 8,000 euros per year between young people and the rest of the working people, and much more so if they are young people and women. Above all, his Government did not give priority to an effective youth policy, but had also been absent. In view of this panorama, Mr Urkullu, do you have any empathy? Do you really want to pose as an opportunity to have to get out? Perhaps today, perhaps now that we are in pre-campaign, he promises us today a list of actions that they intend to carry out for the next four years, many of them the same ones they promised then to young people in their day, in the last elections. But, really, today I want to take advantage of it to ask you to make self-criticism too. We want to know, of course, the size of the funk, the Bukka and the Gipuzian youth, so they wouldn't have to go out.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Zulaika, clearly, you mentioned a meeting I had with a group of kids last Saturday. This meeting lasted an hour and a half, and you've forgotten everything you said there. You've made a brief summary of the media. And you've come with a single word, you've only got the word "good" in your hooks. In fact, he still said, "To the point of the young men who have been forced to go to work." We are used to what sort of heads the media reflect on when they are to be made a abstract from such meetings, which, perhaps, would not always be necessary or just. The object of this meeting was to listen to the younger, and I know the situation of the younger. I also live in the situation of young people, Mrs. Zulaika. And with all humility, to report the economic policy that's going on last year was the purpose of promotement of the job opportunities. I say it humbly, because, after all, I have made this plan very clear to the assembly of della Rebbia, the Government does not create jobs, unless there are public summonss. The jobs are made by corporations. It's up to us to take measures to rekindle the economy and promote new job options, and that's what I've been doing at that meeting. And that's what we're doing, we're taking measures, and we're ready to take new measures and we'll be there. That's how we showed the first day, when we agreed to the Eplegu Plan in the first year. We put six specific programs in motion from the first year to promote new jobs options. You have not mentioned one, I will tell you: local economy development, service, job training, job training, work programs and Renove programs. We accepted an investment of 775 million Euro to set up these jobs. These plans, after three years, have begun to produce results and have to be underlined. As you know, Eukadin is now creating employment, increasing a month's growth in all the sectors, and there are new employment opportunities. I know, however, that young men have great difficulties in finding work, and I know that the real conditions of work are difficult; I know, I live in my own house, Mrs. Zulaika. This also, in the meeting mentioned to me, I accepted clearly. Anyway, I'll give you an important piece of information. the euscal corporations will need 25,000 new jobs this year, and next year it will be the same. It is the companies themselves, Mrs Zulaika, that have defined the needs or their employment needs. Today, two out of three companies say they need new recruitment, and 45% of the needs are related to specialised vocational training. You say we have no measures. At that meeting, to which you refer, I explained that the Government's economic policy is to focus initiatives on the opportunity sectors related to the digitization needs of industry and advanced services, new technologies, care services for people and their quality, the trade, tourism and active leisure sector, or knowledge and applied innovation. It is also our responsibility to focus training on this. I'll give you a second measure, directed to the young, which is the First Option and Seeding Program. Thanks to these programs, 2,700 young people get a first job experience for each year, Mrs. Zulaika. By this means, young men can get the experience required by the trade of labour. A third measure is that of offering aid to the enterprises. We're all working together in this area. However, the aids are important, but the passion for action must be strengthened and extended. Only one of the four young Euskadin has the intention of conducting his own business. All public institutions work together in the Entrepreneurship Plan to offer training and advice, financial support and guarantees, aid for internationalization. At the meeting to which you refer I explained that we have taken action through the Gaztenpresa programme or support for Junior Cooperatives, and, of course, young entrepreneurs have all the public support when they decide to start an activity or business. That's what I said, too. The fourth scale is related to the internationalization of the economy. First of all, a data has to be underlined: I'm just trying to make sure you're helping the 1,750 small, erta companies out of the foreign markets in the last three years. All of the Basque organizations will always encourage a Basque activity and a job, but the scope of the companies is global market nowadays, and experience in this global markets is positive to have a job opportunity here. We are very aware of the need for employment that young people have: without employment there is no future for them, neither for them, nor for the country, there is no welfare state. There is a lot of work ahead, but we must also recognise that we are moving forward: jobs are created in Euskadi. For the first time, youth are part of this job recovery. The recruitment of young people under the age of 25 has increased by 14% in April compared to last year, Mrs Zulaika. We are aware – as I said at the above-mentioned meeting – that it is important that employment be of quality, and that is the objective: more duration, better conditions. Part of this objective will be achieved if the industry continues to be the engine of growth in Euskadi, and at the moment it is, because it grows two points above the average; it is also because it has begun to generate employment: last month, industry-related contracting has increased by 13%. Industry is the guarantee of the highest quality and stability in employment. At the meeting to which you refer, Mrs Zulaika, I was able to stress that our aim is for young people to have opportunities in Basque businesses. That's the priority. This does not mean giving up or denouncing anyone who wants to have an international work experience – let's get to the concepts well. The drama is that someone is forced out because they don't have opportunities here, yes. What is exciting is that they have the option, the opportunity to have an international experience, an experience in Basque companies abroad or in companies that bring value to them, an experience that will help them to expand their professional skills, which will allow them to develop at the international level. This is a value for a country and for Basque companies that are increasingly open to the world. But I insist, the goal is for young people to have opportunities in Basque companies, whether they are here or internationalised. As a country, the aim is for that experience to be returned to the Basque economy, and that is what we are working on, Mrs Zulaika. For this it is necessary to grow, create jobs and be of quality. The objective of the Basque Government and of all the institutions is to promote economic recovery in Euskadi and employment in Euskadi, but we need to know that the Basque economy is internationalised and that at more openness, more growth here; that is why we are pushing for the objective of 1,750 small and medium-sized enterprises to internationalize and open up to external markets. That's why the Global Lehian program to support the internationalization of the Basque company, that's why we offer 450 Global Training scholarships for Basque youth to train in Basque companies abroad. We are interested in the internationalization of Basque companies, which have a presence abroad, we are interested in having Basque youth to work, to help develop these projects. And in all my public interventions, Mrs Zulaika, to the business world I am insisting on the need for the company to incorporate youth, because it means incorporating knowledge, creativity, technological capacity and also a more open vision of the global market. Basque youth is our best raw material, our guarantee of the future. At this time of recovery, the world of the company has to be able to take advantage of this talent. And that's all I said at that conference or at that meeting you've appealed to; this and not other things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u49	Thanks again, ma'am. That's what I said he said, that is, they see it as a chance to get out. I think I said that, didn't I, Mr. Lehendakari? Not long ago the councilman was saying the opposite. The councillor, Mr Toña, said or invited young people to endure rather than emigrate for a job. He recognized that the situation here, "of course, things are not very well, the young people have started to leave here and we don't want to; our young people will do what they have to do, but I believe that if they endure a little, they will find a job." That is what the Councillor said, and on the contrary, just this week Mr Lehendakari urges or encourages young people to look for an opportunity outside as well. Please agree. I, at least, remain the same..., although I do not think those words were fortunate – and Basque youth understood it this way – I prefer to keep Toña's words, because at least I recognized that the situation was not good and that there was a lot to do. I am not going to talk about the last words today, I think that there has already been enough talk this morning about the Vice-Adviser regarding Lanbide, that Basque Employment Service which should be a reference in the search for employment mediation for all people, for young people as well. I repeat the idea again: I believe that with these messages..., of course, the business market, not just the business market, the market today is a global market at international level, but those messages, we understand that neither help the companies here to directly hire young people. Messages such as needing a first work experience, subsidizing these first work experiences, do not always invite companies here to hire directly young people who after their training have received the practical training and the necessary practices. Because, by that rule of three, as we are in a global market, we can encourage young people to go to Finland to study because "a levelling-up menu they are going to acquire in their training!", or we can encourage young people to go to China to learn Chinese, because the companies here are also in China, but working with the conditions there, with the days there and with the salaries there. Therefore, we understand the context perfectly and understand your words perfectly; what we do not understand is how in the current situation of Basque youth, Mr Lehendakari, say these things. He has commented on some of the programmes they have launched from the Government. Yes, we know them, we have also reviewed the different employment plans and we have also expressed our opinion on them, we have also shared them with young people and with those who represent young people and we know what they think. The errors of the first Lehen Aukera were recognized, the first errors that came out when they started, and were rectified in much of them. We recognized that, too, and we recognized it. We have asked and we have been interested in the Hazilan programme because we believe that it is one of the methods that should also be implemented, and that is the ikuspuntu that for EH Bildu we believe should be taken into account: working from the local level, from the regional level, also empowering young people at the local level, and in that sense we believe it could be a great programme. But so and so, with all these programmes, still – yesterday we said so too – in the face of this emergency, the measures have to be much more effective. For that, the budget must be much broader, and we must be brave and face the situation of youth. There are some of those programmes, but they show that the situation we are in has not been as effective as they would have to be. And, today, I am running out of time, but I would like to take this opportunity to ask Mr Lehendakari that, since he asks those young people to consider the opportunity to leave – then, with the challenge, of course, of returning to this country – I ask you to also put all the measures in place so that all those who want to return, the talented and those who are not so talented, can do so and can return with decent living conditions and can have a decent job here too.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Zulaika, I do not know whether we will be able to understand the concept of internationalisation, both of the Basque economy and of the Basque company. I do not know whether you will be able to understand what I have said twice in my first speech, and it is our goal that young people should have opportunities in Basque companies, be Basque companies here or be internationalised Basque companies. I am pleased, however, that you acknowledge that we have certain programmes with certain initiatives, when you said in your first speech that we have hardly any initiative. I see that you recognize what the Lehen Aukera program can be; however, it would be good if we continued to contrast what the Lehen Aukera or Hazilan program is, to which you have referred, as well as the true essence of the Global Lehian or Global Training. I see that you still have a confusion, however, in the Lehen Aukera programme when talking about subsidies. Look, our commitment to youth employment is firm and permanent, Mrs Zulaika. And you have appealed to the Budgets, and as I will show you, in the Budgets of this year 2016, there are €24.5 million in different actions and initiatives aimed at improving the employability of young people. And this amount is earmarked for youth entrepreneurship support programmes, dual training programmes in vocational training, the Hezibi programme, mobility programmes and international experience such as internationalization grants, labour market access programmes such as Lehen Aukera, relief contract promotion programmes, Berriz-Entreprise, to promote the incorporation of new generations into commercial activity; we also invest in agreements with Basque universities, vocational training and private foundations to encourage the employment of young people. And, as a result of these initiatives, we hope to facilitate the employability of 20,000 young people this year. This is the best example of our commitment to youth, our commitment to young people finding work in Euskadi. I'm sure you're gonna have to go on with what you're doing, young people's job options because it's a priority for us. The purpose is to obtain integration in the work world, and that is what we're working with the company world. We are aware of the characteristics of the formation, the attitudes, and the values required by companies, that is to say, the capacity for work, the ability to work in a group, and the commitment. We will also work with the university and the Educational Educational Educational Education, improve formation and approach the corporate world. This bridge is needed to facilitate work-integration. With this, it is also our responsibility to invest in the new possibilities which the economy offers: We've made our own intelligent RIS 3 specialization in Europe and we have to push our future sectors. We have to keep investing in Euscalic economics and internationals as well. Our priority is to promote the employment of quality, and by this means we must maintain the growth and increase of this increase, and be even obliged to bring in here the young men who are hired by the eucalyptuses outside. The employment studies in April have been good, but I know it's not enough; I've been doing my profession for months, and I know that Mrs. Zulaika, the young men of less than twenty-five years old, were in unemployment. Let us make it clear to these young 9,143 young men that to promote their needs is the privilege of the whole government; and there is no doubt that we will continue to create them in the Eukadin. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point in the theme list: "I'm asking you, members of the Basque Barloria Barrio Barroja Populacal team for the president of the Spanish Government, about Euskal Advocacy Advices. " Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u53	Thank you, President. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. This is a question that does not try to be contentious; it tries to seek information. In addition, the performance and presence of advisers in governments has always been a controversial issue, used in one way or another, often in relation to advisers for the work they do or not, or for their dedication to other diverse things, sometimes for their quantity in governments... But, well, in this case it has been very graphic: there has been journalistic information that the citizens of this country have read in relation to issues that, after some obligation to publish the relationship of advisors and salaries – and we, of course, are not going to go into names, much less – but were graphic the information that some media echoed, and they talked about that a number of advisors from the Basque Government are receiving salary from the rank of vice-advisor, and that, of course, means – and it is graphic, and people understand it this way – that some advisors from the Basque Government are receiving a salary higher than that of the president of the Spanish Government. So, to talk about this subject, I say again that I don't want it to be a contentious issue, I want it to be a question of reflection or information, don't I? What are the criteria defended by the Government that you preside over to understand as coming salaries higher than that of the President of the Government of Spain to advisory staff appointed with the rank of vice-advisor. I say again, it is a question that is in the press, that the citizens of this country have read it; it is graphic that in a time like this where these issues are sensitive, they need some explanation, and we ask you to give it to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, you refer to journalistic information. I believe that, in addition to journalistic information, the ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, also have answers to questions raised here by the parliamentary groups. In any case, I will start with a clarification, because you state in your justification of the question that the requirement of transparency has forced the Basque administration to publish the situation of the senior officials. He did not say so in his speech, but it is written in his justification of the question, and I want to state that the State Transparency Act is December 2013. It obliges the General Administration of the State to make public the career and functions of its senior officials, but this obligation in the Law on State Transparency does not include advisers in 2013. In Euskadi, information on senior officials, contingent personnel or advisers, is published on the data access portal of the Basque Government, Open Data, from 2011 –2011 – and has data from 2009 until today. This information is updated and systematized to ensure its full accessibility. As far as the Spanish Government is concerned, the salaries of the advisers have therefore been secret to the State, if that is the case, until 12 January 2015. In Euskadi, since 2009 they have been published. Look, as far as the pay criteria applied by the Basque Government are concerned, I can tell you that they are coherent, stable and transparent. Coherent because there is a progressive relationship of responsibility and functions with pay. Stable because I remind you that they are the same ones who have been in that progressive with those who were in the previous legislature, with the previous government, which you supported; with one single difference, Mr Barrio: that now the number of senior officials and advisers is 20% lower than in the previous legislature, in which you supported the previous government. And transparent because they are public and have been published clearly for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, lehendakari. I control this government. Mr Esteban will control the Government of Spain with regard to the need for transparency, but I have to control this Government and, I mean, do you agree that advisers from your Government cover more than the President of the Government of Spain? Is that okay with you? We are in a time when we have to make gestures to the citizenry. Citizenship requires constant gestures, sometimes we have to make critical reflections about how we do not know how to respond to citizenship with gestures on our part. And at this time of need for gestures and actions in relation to pulcritude issues, in relation to issues of proportionality, do you still feel well that there are people from your Government who work as an adviser and – I say again, I do not want to give names – and have governmental responsibilities or not, who work in political areas and who cover more than the President of the Government? I would like you to reflect on this: if it is proportional, if it is in the face of the citizenry the fact that there are advisers who pay more than the President of the Government of Spain. Please tell me what you are thinking about. Is that okay with you? Does that look like a polish to you? Do you think it's provided? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u58	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Man, Mr. Barrio, don't you come to me with the control of the President of the Government, the control of the Spanish Government... when you're asking me about the pay criteria compared to what is the salary of the President of the Spanish Government. Look, you're referring, even if you don't quote or want to name names, to eight advisors from the Basque Government, but you don't say that in the Spanish Government a large number of advisors and senior officials charge more than the President of the Spanish Government. And I am not going to tell you what I think of the Spanish President's salary, but the director of his Economic Office, the deputy director of his Cabinet, the secretary of presidency, the director of international affairs, the technical director of the Commission Delegate, the director of the Department of Security of the Spanish Government, among many others, charge much more than the Spanish President. And this is an example of coherence? Is this an example of coherence in the Spanish Government itself, Mr Barrio? You ask me about the comparison with the President of the Spanish Government; ask your own Government of the People's Party, of the Spanish Government, whether it is consistent the remuneration of your high offices in relation to what is the remuneration of the President of that Spanish Government itself. Look, I insist, it does not seem to me a model of reference, and therefore I defend the criteria of the Basque public administration, which are coherent, stable and transparent: consistent because there is a progressive relationship of responsibility and functions with pay, stable because I remind you that they are the same as the previous government that you supported, Mr Barrio, and transparent because they are public and they have been published clearly for four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u60	Thank you, Mr. President. Before we continue, the seventeenth point has been left for another. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Michael Unzalu Hermosa, a member of the Basque Socialists, was made to the president, using the 31/2008 Decret, in order to prevent the immediate immediate assistance of the earthquakes of the Equidor." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u61	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, members of the legislature, ladies and gentlemen of the department, all good days. Madrugada of 13 January 2010: an earthquake shakes Haiti. That same afternoon, the Basque Government, chaired by the lehendakari Patxi López, has already authorized a €200,000 loan, the open line for humanitarian emergencies, and makes available to the Spanish Agency for Cooperation generators, rescue equipment and equipment, doctors, a logistics unit and two groups of specialists from the Canine Unit of the Ertzaintza, in addition to contacting NGOs to channel more aid. November 7, 2013: Hurricane in the Philippines, which spans the archipelago for a couple more days. The Basque Government, which you preside over, Mr Urkullu, four days later announces that it will allocate humanitarian aid when the following budgets are approved, as early as 2014, and we had the opportunity to talk about this in this House at the end of November 2013. 16 April 2016: earthquake in Ecuador. This Parliament, like other institutions, kept a minute of silence in solidarity with the victims. There is no evidence to date that any emergency aid has been activated or that resources have been mobilized. We do not know whether anything has been done; at least we have no news of it, and that no call has been made for the mobilization of resources, that no solidarity mechanisms have been put in place with which it relies in the Budgets is usually indicative that nothing has been done. The spokesman for your Government, Mr Lehendakari, spoke of the Basques who could have been harmed, as it should be, but not of such aid, as it should also be. We do know, because that was published, that on 26 April the Government approved the call for humanitarian aid amounting to EUR 3.2 million. The Socialists believe that the very meaning of emergency aid is that it can be activated when the emergency occurs, not when the Governing Council finds a gap in its agenda throughout the year. If they were activated since January, they would be available at any time. The account I have made of recent catastrophes shows that this may or may not be the case. That is why I ask you why the Basque Government has not immediately launched emergency aid for the area of Ecuador affected by the earthquakes, despite having an approved budget for this purpose.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Unzalu, as much as you have the habit of resorting to comparison with the previous government – which I respect –, what I do think is that you are confusing some of the issues. Look, the Basque Government has indeed launched the granting of emergency aid, and you have acknowledged it. What is happening is that we are doing this with a clear and transparent procedure, which responds to a coherent and sustained policy, which is what is involved in cooperation aid, also emergency aid. You have said this, and this week the call for emergency aid has been published in the Basque Country Bulletin, and we have a clear sensitivity for Ecuador, but also for other aid needs. And please, Mr Unzalu, take into account that when certain circumstances, such as these to which we are referring, occur, the lehendakari comes first in contact with the diplomatic representation of the country where that emergency occurred in order to know those needs and how to channel the possible answers that we can offer. Look, we have a permanent funding line for emergency aid and humanitarian action of EUR 1.2 million, and also a funding line for humanitarian action framework strategies of EUR 2 million. And these aids are one of the possibilities envisaged, but not the only one. What I am interested in saying in relation to these issues is that disasters and humanitarian crises, Mr Unzalu, you know well, go into the background in a relatively short, relatively short period of time, and yet their consequences are prolonged over time, and that is where our cooperation should be, always with the principle of complementarity. And that's how we work in this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u65	Mr Lehendakari, to some extent we are reproducing the November 2013 debate, because I told you again what I said to you on that occasion, Mr Lehendakari: the decree was not activated. Indeed, the day has been activated... Well, you approved it on April 26th and it was published on May 4th. And from now on, in fact, there are 1.2 million and 2 million lines of action in both forms of emergency aid. What I proposed to you and urged you in November 2013 is that these types of mechanisms have to be activated since January, as was done in January 2010. It could have been done. I know that you have..., well, I know – you have told me and I believe you, of course – that you have contacted the diplomatic delegation of Ecuador in Euskadi, but there are things you have not done: act immediately with the right means, to try to alleviate the effects of the catastrophe. You have not yet met with NGOs today, with the Euskadi NGO Coordinator, as has been done on other occasions, to get to know the needs at the site of the disaster. Nor have you been in contact with associations representing the more than 8,000 Ecuadorian people living in Euskadi. And what I'm telling you is that you use the tools that the Statute itself and that self-government give you so that you can act and that Euskadi can follow the lead and be a reference in terms of humanitarian aid cooperation and development cooperation, which, frankly, your Government is leaving far behind what had been earned for many years with a lot of work...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u66	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u67	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Unzalu, I would appreciate a little more rigour in the personal appeals you make when you say that I have not met or stopped meeting. Mr Unzalu, we are receiving the requests and in the near future the aid will be made effective to alleviate the emergency humanitarian crises, also in Ecuador. When do you say we pass the decree in the Governing Council? April 26th. When was the catastrophe in Ecuador? April 16th. Well, from the very first moment, the Government and I as Lehendakari have conveyed our solidarity to the people of Ecuador through their ambassador, and I insist on the way we act: first ask the diplomatic delegation how we can help from the first moment. Not suddenly, according to the occurrences that come to us. We now want to complement that solidarity with the humanitarian aid that we can articulate with the NGOs in Euskadi. We have the financial resources and we are making them available through the usual channels for managing aid calls. Mr Unzalu, I would like to remind you that the strategy and the lines of action of the Basque Cooperation Agency are contrasted and shared with the NGOs working on the ground, that these organisations demand a medium- and long-term strategy, it is the NGOs themselves who demand that medium- and long-term strategy. All actors have a vocation of structural assistance, seeking to reduce the vulnerability of people affected by the crisis and strengthen their capacities to overcome the difficulties, but with a prolonged effort in time, not in such a way that we go into a strategy of sudden action that we immediately forget. Our commitment is to continue to increase the public resources of cooperation and to keep all helpers open, and we're working with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "Interface, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-UPy D's lawyer made to the president about Leia and Gastian foreign riots recently experienced." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u69	Thank you, President. Counselor, the campuses of Bizkaia and Álava have experienced another day of altercation during a protest called by the union Ikasle Abertzaleak. In Leioa, a group of violent men assaulted the Rectorate and caused injuries to a vigilante and several destructions. In Vitoria, the participants in the protest entered the Vice-Rectorate's headquarters and also caused material damage. With these actions, the student union called for the annulment of the open disciplinary files and the charges against several students for the serious disturbances that occurred on March 17 in Vitoria and Bilbao during the holding of a strike against LOMCE that ended in a camp battle in the Alavesa capital. The UPV has condemned these violent practices, and both the Lehendakari and the Basque Parliament, representatives of Basque citizens, must also condemn them, since it is not acceptable for these practices to be repeated over time. These violent acts are unacceptable in a democracy and must be strongly censored by democratic institutions: one thing is, of course, to demand certain ideas or to protest against certain decisions of the different governments, and another very different, totally unacceptable, is to carry out violent acts to pressure the institutions. Because, moreover, these facts are a continuation of previous equally violent events. That is why we were questioning the Lehendakari for the way in which the Basque Government intends to deal with such violent acts that are repeated in Euskadi every time and that are absolutely unacceptable. This interpellation, sadly, has been reinforced by another attack provoked after its presentation, the one that occurred in the early morning of 2 May, when unknown people tried to burn down the facilities of the Vice-Rectorate of the Campus of Álava. The reality is that the violent have deployed in the last two months a whole strategy against the Basque public university. We can go back to March 2, when the Ertzaintza locates material for sabotages, flares and gasoline bottles in the vicinity of the Victorian campus. A few days later, in the same area, hooded men stopped a bus, painted it, poured containers and placed banners. On 17 March, on a supposed day of fighting against LOMCE, groups of radicals caused serious destruction in several Alavesa faculties and then headed towards the center of Vitoria, where they starred in a campal battle and material damage that came close to 100,000 euros. UPV reacted by denouncing these facts and opened several files to students involved in these incidents. The organization Ikasle Abertzaleak calls for April 26th a day of struggle under the slogan "Erasorik ez" against the open files to several students of Engineers of San Mamés and the campus of Álava. The result, the same as the previous days: serious incidents and destruction in the Vice-Rectorate of Álava, and on the campus of Leioa, where they also assault the juror vigilantes and cause various bruises and injuries to seven of them. And the last incident, the tire fire at the door of the vice-rectorate of the Álava Campus. The common denominator of all these attacks and incidents is the Ikasle Abertzaleak organization. This so-called student union always appears in the protest days, in the algaradas and in the violent attacks. They make it clear their own slogans and slogans, as demonstrated by the launch for the day against LOMCE: "To destroy by building and destroying". Very significant and very enlightening of what this organization is looking for. These have been the facts, a story that brings us back to past times, when violence was a constant, not only in university, and a tool perfectly designed by the left abertzale to frighten all those we did not think like them, a mechanism to reinforce the strategy of ideological cleansing carried out for half a century by the terrorist band ETA. It is not acceptable for violent practices to reproduce over time. Any act of violence is inadmissible and unjustifiable in democracy. That is why all the democrats individually and collectively in the institutions must have as their flag the strong condemnation of violent acts, support the social isolation of those who lead these events and promote their persecution by the police forces. Less than two months ago, following the incidents of 17 March, the democratic forces of this Parliament agreed to a statement of condemnation in which we pointed out that assaulting university centers, frightening teachers and students, destroying public goods and sowing chaos on the streets are actions incompatible with the democratic right to demonstration and protest. This pronouncement could not become an institutional declaration of Parliament because those who have been supporting and covering violence for decades refused to sign it. But we must also criticise the university itself, which in our opinion has not been strong enough with these individuals who periodically sow chaos and violate normal academic development. This isn't just us thinking. Some union has made it public these days and many teachers have denounced it and continue to denounce it. It is said that there is an agreement between the UPV and the Department of Security that Ertzaintza should not act on university campuses unless required by the Rectorate, and it seems that in these incidents of the past few months, despite their seriousness, the performance of the Basque police has not been required. That's why we're asking the government – initially, the lehendakari, although we know that the Security Advisor is going to answer – to know what she's going to do to end these violent incidents that are repeated in the Basque university. How do you intend to act against those who lead them and against those who support them? What actions will be taken to prevent these incidents from happening again? It is not enough to regret them later, it is not enough even to condemn them, the Government must be asked to stop them before they occur, and that is therefore the question we are making. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u71	Thank you, ma'am. Chiefs of Investigators, congressmen. Indeed, Mr Maneiro, the use of any form or form of violence, whatever degree, in the alleged support for legitimate protests or student claims, as has been the case in recent months, is intolerable and inadmissible. It is today, it was in the past and it will always be. The more serious the use of violence is, the more it degrades, debilitates, detracts from any social, economic, political, religious or other legitimate argument intended to defend itself. The tainted claims of violence are inadmissible in a democracy. And these violent acts, indeed, must be censored and rejected by all democratic institutions, by whom we represent society politically and also by society as a whole. We agree, Mr Maneiro, and it is good that we focus on this and that we do so, the more cohesive and united, the better. I sincerely believe that, in the light of recent events, all the public institutions concerned have expressed themselves in this regard in a forceful and unanimous manner, and, of course, the University itself has done so, so has this government – in particular, the Department of Education –, Parliament itself, territorial institutions... Finally, it is good, it is didactic, it is exemplary, it is effective that in this we also give an image of unity, because to disagree, to protest, to reject certain measures or decisions, to demand alternative measures, to demand rectifications, none of this is compatible neither in the academic sphere nor in any other area with wanting to do so by exerting violence on people or on property, whether these public ones or are private. Let it be done in the educational sphere, in the university sphere, gives us what to think, because, of course, we associate the field of knowledge with the defence of freedom of expression, and gives us what to think because, of course, we associate the education of our young people with the desire not to make the mistakes of the past and with the desire for a future of coexistence in peace, of secure coexistence, of coexistence in well-being; in short, a better future for all and, above all, for them and them, for our young people. It is true that since February this year we have been witnessing a dynamic of student protests. From the point of view of police knowledge, from the first protests in March, of merely student character, to the most recent ones, which occurred this same month, protests and student actions that have coincided with others that are more related to the world of work and in particular to Labor Day, in total, Mr Maneiro, 26 actions have been recorded. Most of them are painted, sabotages, paintings, silicone, roadblocks. There have also been classroom occupations, chains and various material wreckage. To all these actions must be added others that have had a more violent component, generating damage with violence, large damage in some cases, with serious incidents at the university, on the campus of Leioa and on the campus of Gasteiz, and in the environment of some manifestations as well. And, indeed, one of the most recent was the use of flammable liquid for the burning of several tires at the door of the Vice-Rectorate of the UPV of Gasteiz, and there have also been two other cases, which you yourself have enumerated, more serious, of assaults on people, assault on security agents on the campus of Leioa and assault on the ertzainas themselves who went to control the situation. And this information, Mr Maneiro, is part of the police operations that Ertzaintza has activated to protect demonstrations and to prevent, as it has prevented, incidents of law and order and violent acts from reaching greater severity. And it is also part of the investigation proceedings that are open to clarify these criminal acts and try to identify the responsible persons in cases where there have been no identifications yet or imputations. And this is police work, this is what we have to do today, as we have always had to do, and it actively contributes to making us even more effective at prevention. Prevention from information, protection from information and persecution from investigation. In any case, I insist: nothing, absolutely nothing justifies the use of violence to express discomfort with certain measures or rejection with certain decisions. And even less so in this area where people are preparing and developing for scientific analysis and debate, a constructive debate that will move this society forward in parameters of common good. And in this we agree the entire Government and we agree all the departments, because there is no department that does not live these facts with concern and does not reflect on their incidence and evolution, and all the institutions concerned also coincide with the whole academic and educational world at the front. For the Department of Security and for Ertzaintza, the priority is the preventive police work of protection, investigation and persecution that we carry out day by day. It is what we have to do always, it is what we are doing to tackle, to cut and to pursue any risk of violence that is detected, and, of course, to stop those people who encourage, commit, or who give cover to such acts. And this is, fundamentally, the work of Ertzaintza, preventing and persecuting crime, but also – I insist – beyond the police security functions that we have entrusted, citizen collaboration, and in this case, the collaboration of the student collective, is still essential to tackle this kind of provocation. We are not talking about facts that directly affect many or many citizens, nor are they numerically significant data on all the criminal offences that are habitually recorded; in fact, in the statistics of criminal offences known to Ertzaintza, the crime rate of the first quarter has fallen again compared to 2015 by 1.6%, and the acts of violence associated with student protests have not distorted that trend. On the contrary, it has nothing to do with what happened only six, seven or eight years ago, in which we had rates of 250 incidents of public order and street violence per year. And very far, of course, from those years in which more than a thousand incidents were recorded per year. But we have to insist on this, it is essential to raise awareness that violence generates violence and that violence distorts any attempt at understanding, whatever the cause of the disagreement. Even today, this awareness-raising work is the best way to contain these acts of agitation. That is why, together with the police work of prevention, persecution and investigation, which is what it is for Ertzaintza to do, which is what Ertzaintza is doing, and in this case, in direct and immediate collaboration with universities, indeed, in accordance with this cooperation protocol and this information exchange protocol, the best antidote, as I said, against this tendency to violence is the firm social rejection, the firm and unanimous rejection of the whole society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u72	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u73	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counsellor, you have made a good speech, which we share. Usually, when I ask lehendakari about these kinds of issues, he gets defensive and indignant. But he is not indignant with the violent, he is not indignant with Otegi, he is not indignant with those who provoke altercations, but he is indignant with a servant for asking him about these matters. I see that this has not been the case, and indeed I am glad. You have been dialectically blunt with these events and have pointed out some good ideas about what we should do to keep them from happening again. However, I want to tell you that these facts have already occurred, and then I ask you exactly what the department is going to do, if I could make some more concrete action so that these facts do not happen again. I mean, if there have been these facts (violent altercations, attacks), in college, I guess, I understand that some responsibility will also have the Department of Security, something will have failed. You pointed, indeed, to prevention, information, persecution and research, which are tasks to be carried out by Ertzaintza. Right. And he also pointed out two issues that I think are of enormous importance: social rejection and citizen awareness, but surely there will be something to improve in relation to the functioning of the Ertzaintza, because these events have occurred and may occur again in the future. Therefore, something will have to be improved in the actions carried out by the Ertzaintza in all that has to do with prevention, information, research and persecution; after all, the Ertzaintza has a lot of information. In college you know everyone, you usually know who is behind these altercations, and therefore I demand you to mobilize your department, to mobilize the Ertzaintza so that these facts cannot happen again. It is not enough to condemn them, it is not enough to stop the perpetrators afterwards; we must move ahead with the events and do everything possible to prevent these events from happening again. We cannot allow radicals to intimidate the entire educational community and camp wide on the Basque university campuses, counselor. We cannot allow radicals to turn the university into their fiefdom, and we have not seen until now that those responsible for the university itself have even shown enough strength to deal with the problem. I think you can do something else on the part of the university and also on the part of your department. In addition to the condemnation that all democrats have expressed sincerely and forcefully, we demand the Government to act decisively, to involve itself with all its means to isolate those who provoke these violent acts, to arrest them and bring them to justice, to restore to the university the social peace that it deserves in order to develop its teaching and research activities worthily. I was asking you in my first intervention... it is said that there is an agreement between the UPV and the Department of Security so that the Ertzaintza does not act on university campuses unless required by the Rectorate. And it seems that in these incidents of the last few months, despite their seriousness, the performance of the Basque police has not been required. We wanted to know if, in fact, this is the case, if there is any kind of agreement that the Ertzaintza does not act on university campuses. We must marginalise the complexes, we must act, of course, in a democratic way, but also in a decisive way. We must move ahead with the events, as well as condemn them later. Anyway, these are my thoughts and the questions I wanted to ask you. We certainly share the basics and fundamentals, our absolute condemnation and our democratic rejection of this series of actions, but, of course, you, as head of the Department of Security, will surely be able to do more to ensure that these events do not happen again. In any case, we will move that this Parliament condemn these facts and urge the Department of Security to take all necessary measures to ensure that they cannot happen again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u74	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u75	Thank you, ma'am. You ask what the university is doing. For, look, today more than ever the educational community has at all levels a degree of awareness, awareness and active participation in the reconstruction of coexistence and peace-building. The elaboration of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, led by the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence, was based from the outset on the collaboration of all educational agents, and in particular on the contribution of all universities. And one of the initiatives contained in the plan specifically addresses the shared contribution of Basque universities to the Peace and Co-existence Plan. As a result of this close collaboration between the Government and the educational community, there are already many initiatives that have come from the university itself and that have also reached educational institutions. The Adi-Adian module has been actively promoted in the educational field. To date, 133 sessions have been held, with more than 5,000 students participating. At the university level, the Ahotsak project was also promoted in 2015 to promote among students the reflection on terrorism, violence, human rights violations and the construction of peace in Euskadi. During this year a pilot experiment was also developed involving 280 students from the three universities, an experience that continues this year. And, look, from our department, from the Department of Security, in collaboration with Education and at the express request of educational institutions, public talks are being held, conducted by Ertzaintza herself, on the modes of violence and crimes that most directly affect young women and women. To date, more than 15,000 Euskadi pupils have participated. Fortunately, this is the institutional framework in which we move and this is the framework of coexistence to which the security services of this country must contribute, contribute proactively, so that any risk of the use of violence has the immediate firewall of that goal of social encounter that is nothing other than that of coexistence, peace, security and well-being. And in this scenario of vigilant attitude, in order not to go back to situations of the past that we do not want to repeat – I don't think anyone wants to repeat – it is important that the whole society feels compelled to demonstrate its rejection, but it is especially important that no political sector takes refuge in passive silences, in acritic attitudes or in ambiguous positions of any sign. The presence of the Ertzaintza in all these incidents of law and order and street violence has been constant, planned – I will tell you more – and effective. In all cases it is more what the Ertzaintza has avoided than what has happened, and when something happens it is always possible that the consequences are the least possible. There has been no demonstration that the specific operations have not been planned in view of the forecast of risks identified by the intelligence services themselves. Persons who have been violently involved in public order incidents have been identified or charged. Due diligence has been initiated and sanctioning administrative procedures implemented. One-to-one attestations have been and continue to be investigated, we continue and will continue to gather information so that our preventive capacity is even greater. True, we do not always arrive with enough preventive advance, but we never stop meeting – as it cannot be otherwise – the needs that arise for us. Not always the Ertzaintza and the Department of Security manage to avoid everything. The university, the institutions, the social groups, the companies, the workers, the university and the university, the whole Basque society has the Ertzaintza. They do it every time they consider it necessary for their safety. And this is the collaboration that, together with the total rejection, the unanimous rejection of society towards those who practice violence, will make Ertzaintza ever more effective and let us continue with the support and, of course, the contribution of all, let us continue to live in a more secure society every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u76	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. 9th point on the subject list: "The Interition, Oskar Mate García de Jalón EHG" was made to the president, the word of the Northern Atlantic Trade and Investigation (TIP) to stop the signature of the contract. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Tapia, good morning. Today, but this week, having leaked information about the Greenpac alliance, we interact with the government around the United States of America and the US of Europe's investment and commerce treaty. The thirteenth negotiation has just ended, and there have been various disputes and deliberations in it, and we believe that it is not only worth the attention of the people, but that the thought and reflection of the funneth have appeared as the defender of TTIP, selling his benefits, and why not, with sincerity, a change of position in the contract, a critical attitude. The activity of Obama to speed up negotiations, the insistence of the defenders of the agreement on various media, or the combined strategy that Greenpeac's leaks have led to the denial of... , and with consequences: yes, for instance, the French State has placed upon the table so many things, so much anxiety, that it is more and more evident to our fellow-citizens. He told him that in recent weeks, and coinciding with the completion of TTIP's thirteenth day of negotiations, different events or events have taken place, depending on the calibre each one or each one. One has been to see the pressure that the United States, through its president, Mr Obama, puts directly into Germany, German Chancellor Angela Merkel, so that the TTIP negotiations can be accelerated and that an agreement can be reached before the end of his term, which seems to be near. Another is the evidence and the finding that the Bilderberg club – and it's not about being a conspirator by quoting it – also includes it among its negotiation issues and among its work and development issues. Another is the interview that was recently published, at least, in the most popular newspaper of the Basque Autonomous Community – I don't know if in other media – by Cecilia Malmström, in which he went back to the kindnesses of the TTIP. And, of course, probably the most prominent element of this entire thirteenth round of negotiations is what has to do with Greenpeace's leaks, with what has come to be called the TTIPleaks. Mrs Malmström – simply to quote, and because I know that with Mr Toña I have a request for an appearance next week that I will be able to address the specifics of employment – Mrs Malmström used again the argument made, also by you from your Government, that the TTIP will be good because it will create jobs. She counted 330,000 jobs in five years, which was to create the TTIP in the Spanish state. It is not necessary to be any mathematician of prestige to make a more or less effective breakdown, and 330,000 jobs in five years do not give for much, if moreover that then we divide it in the whole territory of the Spanish State. Then, what concerns the Basque Autonomous Community would not even be far above what can be the very levels of employment growth that you have been pointing out as elements of success in your management of government. But it is that, in addition to everything, that study – and I don't say it with the person's demerit – was supported by the study of a researcher from Complutense University. That was his whole source of faithfulness and truthfulness. I think there are different studies that support the opposite. But, as I said, I leave it there, because I will have time with Mr Toña, in any case, to delve into that. What I want to talk about is the impression, the opinion that this government deserves, what has already appeared on the leaked papers or made public by Greenpeace. Do you still consider, after knowing that information and being able to contrast it, as we and we, which will generate, have certainly been able to do, continue to defend an augury of positive impact for the Basque economy if the TTIP is applied in the terms in which it is being negotiated and agreed? Not those of us that each of us has in mind, that in mine – and I think I have been very sincere – it is quite obvious that there is no agreement like the TTIP, but that in his – and he has said so too, and I don't have to doubt his sincerity – it does seem that there is a kind of good TTIP. Well, now that we know the reality of the TTIP, do you believe that that level of agreement reached in consolidated texts, which is why they are called consolidated texts and not opinions or impressions of the different negotiating parties, is or is approaching the photo of the good TTIP that you have tried to move here constantly – as well as mine, probably – before this topic? That is the main question of this inquiry. We continue to argue that this is a direct attack on the workers, on the health and sovereignty of the peoples, and what we have known this week only makes us reaffirm ourselves in these theses. It was probably during all this time that it was possible to say of us and of us that we were playing the alarmist discourse, that we were trying to generate a sort of tension or feeling of fear in society in order to attract social sectors to our positions, and what has been shown is that the information we had, which we were able to obtain in a somewhat strange way (i.e. through the leaks that were going on in different Dutch and Danish pages) was true, true, and what we were pointing out about dangers, about risks, about threats, existed. And what we do not see in the consolidated texts that have been made known are the opportunities, are the advantages and benefits that you have been defending as an argumental counterweight to what we pointed out. You were speaking in an appearance, an inquiry also a year ago on the guarantee of democratic control of this treaty. You pointed out, in your interpellation to my reply, that there was no doubt that there was democratic control in that treaty. Does it really continue to hold that there is democratic control when we have had to learn through leaks, when it has provoked government reactions such as the French, who have said that under those conditions it does not sign it, and if he says that it is because before he did not know it or because he really did not know it by the French population? Do you continue to argue that it is a democratic control that exists, beyond entering the debate this easy if three hours in the closed room and so on, when what the negotiators, Mr. Bercero and his American counterpart, announce is that they will open up to detect who has leaked, without worrying and without devoting a single minute to saying whether that is true or not – probably because they cannot deny that it is true –? I believe that democratic control does not seem to be very preserved, very respected in these negotiations. It's 250 pages. There is talk of consolidated texts; it is true that it also points out divergences and points out positions of confrontation or conflict between the two parties – I do not deny it – but it is also true that in many of the differences and in many of the safeguards that each party establishes it is also pointed out that these safeguards can disappear if agreement is reached on the overall area to which they affect. For example – and for people to understand this – this debate affects us on a day-to-day basis, and it affects many of the issues that raise passions in this Parliament, such as this: I am talking, for example, about Garoña; I am talking about fracking. Here come three real, literal extracts from what TTIP papers say. In them it says that with both nuclear energy and extractive energy through natural gas, and again nuclear with uranium, a safeguard area will be established so that it cannot be brought into the agreement. But it also says, just below, that this safeguard can be erased if there is a common commitment to energy. And that does not cease to be a threat; it does not cease to be a threat. Velada, if you want, but a threat. We have also known something that we also pointed out, and it is the obvious decompensation between something that you said they were going to fix here, in the Basque Autonomous Community, through a round of contacts, information, contrasting with civil society, and it was that that agreement was being negotiated, encouraged and strengthened mainly and almost directly by the multinationals. 88% of meetings were with transnationals; 9% were with civil society entities. But what do the papers reveal? They mainly reveal eight issues, at least from our point of view. One, that the famous ISDS court, the Court of State-Investor Disputes, which looks like ICSID, is now called ICS, but still exists. And that it continues to exist without career judges and with professionals from the private sphere; therefore, it is alien to the sovereignty and normative capacity of States or above the normative capacity of States to impose fines that stifle States if they want to preserve spaces of their coexistence or spaces of their life in socio-health terms, in terms of education and so on. That continues to appear in the papers, now under the name of ICS. Protections to natural resources are eliminated. I pointed out to you earlier what it has to do with fracking and nuclear. I ask you another direct question: Mrs Ana Oregi last week made a statement that she intended to be important, and probably so. He said that this Government was going to work hard to meet the objectives set out at the Paris Summit, which had to do with not raising the temperature of the planet above a degree and a half or a degree Celsius of temperature. How can that be made compatible with what appears in TTIP's agreement when it says that they reject that regulation and that they will not take it into account? When they clearly say they will not accept it as a mandatory part of what trade development, market development has to be. How can that solemn declaration be made compatible with critical support for the TTIP, which says it is not going to do so? It also provides for the legalization of transgenics. Some have already come, like corn and soy, and you will know it well, but it also raises something that has a lot of crumbs, but I also leave it for another time, which is that of endocrine disruptors. And I say it has a lot of miga because it has to do with hormonal alterations and it has, according to the wikipedia itself, some derivations that would be exciting for this debate, probably in the Spanish state more, because there testosterone shines more in the debates than, probably, reasoning, but if anyone is interested we could already talk about it at another time. It says that discharges to air and sea will increase, so we will again fail to comply with the issue of climate change. And it is pointed out that the working conditions will be worse...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u78	Thank you, Mr. Matute. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u79	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Matute, I think you and I are often on this subject, and on one last committee, we did it in February, if I don't remember it badly. And it's true I'd like to put things in place. It is true that the things you have mentioned are in some reports, but before we begin, I would like to mention again the advantages that can be, if we negotiated properly, the conditions under which the legislature has placed them in Europe; and that these are red lines for us, as they speak of them; and what this report can say, and what can be its results afterwards. I should therefore begin, if it were really an appropriate arrangement, that the European Union and the United States began two years ago in the work of the United States; Because this is what we've been talking about more than once, the great companies, the multinational companies, have no need of this agreement, but our small and average companies, when they start internationalizing. So, if you have done well, I repeat, that may be good enough to deprive you of so many laughters and so many difficulties, and the agreement may be good. Because, he said, in the opening up of a well-regulated, well-organized market, where, of course, all European guarantees are maintained, of course, that will be good for innovation, the internationalisation of our small and medium-sized enterprises, and I continue to support that. A well-negotiated agreement can mean, for our automotive, for our small industry in general, a good agreement and a good way to get to the United States, a really important market where we are increasingly present as Euskadi. And on many occasions it is true that they have warned us of the problems that can be given with a bad agreement, with not respecting all the working conditions, with not respecting environmental conditions and many other things, it is true, and they have warned us not only organizations of all kinds (environmental or not), but also the SMEs themselves, pointing out which parts can be good, what occasions, what opportunities can be opened, but what problems can be faced in this case. If the United States and Europe achieve a good deal before the Obama mandate ends, of course, that will be good, if a good deal is achieved and well organized, knowing that those democratic guarantees to which you referred, I think we have them perfectly guaranteed, since first it has to be revalidated in the European Parliament itself and then each of the Member States has to revalidate it. In principle, in the face of a good and well-negotiated agreement, that is clear. And that is what the European Parliament itself said and that is what we have always maintained. It seems clear – of course, in our view – that we must continue with the negotiating process, but, obviously, neither in any way nor at any price – in this I absolutely share your position – by not giving in to those aspects that form part of our economic model and for which we are going to continue to fight, of course, and with parameters of quality as we have maintained so far and improving them in the future. And you have no doubt that what Mrs Oregi was saying, of course, we are going to take care of it and we are going to keep it. There is one aspect that is also interesting and is said in the negotiation of this agreement and others: in what remains outside the agreement each State maintains its forms, its parliaments, its legal establishments, its regulations. Whatever's out of the deal, it's clear. We will, of course, read in detail what is agreed upon. I think it is of the utmost importance – I insist – to point out what the European Parliament said in July 2015 and what it establishes as red lines, and it is Mrs Malmström's mandate to negotiate this agreement. The red lines of Parliament I will remind you of. They are: maintaining the standards of environmental, social and food security to which European productions are bound today; protecting European investments in the United States and ending the differences in treatment that exist; removing barriers to energy access to products in the United States; incorporating a list of agricultural products sensitive to potential massive imports; maintaining European standards in data protection so that progress can be made on particularly sensitive matters in relation to electronic commerce; opening up US transport markets to European contractors; opening up the public procurement market – and specifically pointing out construction, civil engineering, transport and energy, as you know; radically excluding from the public services agreement – and says so, "radically" – as the supply of water, health, social services, social security systems and education, he says. That is what the agreement establishing the European Union, Parliament, which gives the mandate to Mrs Malmström, says. And it obviously refers to that body to which you referred, how social, labour and other guarantees are established. Before that we say "These are the red lines that we have endorsed in the European Parliament, and these are our red lines". The document that's leaking right now, which Greenpeace is leaking, is a really interesting document. Why? To know what interests the United States, its lobbies and its companies are defending, it is true. And they are, of course, absolutely contrary to what the European Union defends, and the document itself also shows that they are documents that they analyse..., I will not call them aside, but in which everyone puts their interests on the table, and it is clear that the United States is making a very important pressure. But, in our view, I believe they are still initial negotiating documents, they are not final documents. The agreements that we have at the moment, which can be seen in the documents that exist in the European Union itself, although I agree that there is not enough transparency yet because all those documents on the part, I also believe that they should be hung on that website and that we should know them, and not just the final agreements, in that I agree. There is agreement, about 25 or 30 chapters that will definitely have the agreement, in 17, and there are areas that are, of course, very far away, and there are areas that worry me very much, of course, as a Government and as its representative, in this case, that I am talking about. On the one hand, the United States is saying that the opening of contracts to our civil work will remain there, in suspense, does not respect our designations of origin, does not see them as regards food products, and there are three issues that, of course, I am much more concerned about, which are services – we were saying were for us red line – chemical sectors – I understand that energy is within all of that – and health sectors. And the position that the United States is still holding in this regard is really worrying. These are, however, elements that, as the European Union, of course, we as a government and in our representation in the European Union believe that we have to work to keep them on the terms on which they were set, and we will continue to work to do so, seeking the agreement, always maintaining that attitude. We are going to try to give a vote of confidence to continue to negotiate in those terms, not in others, and I insist, the position of the United States is still being very harsh at the moment – I recognize that and I am concerned about those aspects – but we are going to give a vote of confidence that all those elements on which there is no agreement are still being observed, and, above all, that there is much more transparency and that all these initial positions are being seen, and that citizens know them. There are probably many people who are very interested in the treaty who know them in one way or another, but the whole citizenship is not, and it is true that I believe that all these initial positions should be known. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u81	Mrs Tapia, there is an obvious problem: you do not set the conditions for negotiation. The conditions you have said here may seem more or less demanding, but, of course, they mark another kind of negotiation, a negotiation that is not the one being given, and therefore it is a fictitious playing field and to some extent sterile and wasteful for this House and for Basque society. Because you're putting forward an imaginary of what you'd like it to be negotiating with the safeguards you'd like it to have, not the ones you're really having, and I'm going to explain it to you. You pointed out that it is very democratic because it is going to have to go through the European Commission or the European Parliament and then through the national parliaments, you should have said, because there is no obligation for the regions. But I will tell you more: not even that is true – and you should know it – because, if you have the mixed treaty configuration, you wouldn't even need to go through that precept, because you would understand that having passed initially should not finally pass, and that is a risk that the European Union itself has not yet clarified. I do not blame you, but, in any case, it is clear that the European Union has not yet defined what it is going to do with it. You raise another element, you say what's left out of the agreement. Of course, what is left out of the agreement will have to know that it establishes, for example, a very clear clause in what has to do with regulatory cooperation, that is, what is left out of the agreement because each State preserves it for itself, what it states is that, if the law changes, this law, and this law is harmful to companies, for transnationals, it will give companies a time of adaptation so that they can comply with the law; but otherwise, if the change in the law further favors the interests of transnationals, it will apply immediately. That's what you're saying in the TTIP. Tell me if that is not putting the citizenship and sovereignty of states and peoples at the foot of markets. But he also forgets the trench clause, because the trench clause also establishes that there can be no variation in what the agreement negotiates. Therefore, if this state, if this Autonomous Community, now – I hope one day a state – decides that it wants to remunicipalize, for example, or that it wants to re-publish services that were once public and then have not been public – read, for example, the laundromats of hospitals or any other example that comes to our mind – it would not be able with this agreement, it would not be able with this agreement. And that has to be told to the people, because there are many peoples who are posing remunicipalizations of garbage collection services or other things. If this agreement is put into effect, you will not be able to, and you know that too. But then there is another element, because, of course, he talks to me about public services to tell me that they are not at risk. Tell me about TISA too. Tell me that what doesn't appear in public services here, in the TTIP, is being negotiated in the TISA. And the TISA is happening more secretly – probably some mistake we and we, who are perhaps focusing our entire line of attack on the TTIP and forgetting the TISA – but the TISA is the one that keeps all the coverage of transnationals to penetrate public services and the provision of public services, health and education of people. And it raises another element, that this is an element that I raise with you and perhaps I will surprise you in this House: I do not raise this debate as a debate between the United States and the European Union, I have no problem with the United States like this, a priori. This is a debate between transnational corporations, which if they happen to have puppet governments, and the civilian population, the majority of the citizens of the United States of America and the European Union as a whole, who are going to be the main pagans of the policies they want to carry out. Because you have spoken about designations of origin, and it is true, it is a clear concern, but it would have to be more, because the position that transnationals are maintaining is not to respect even the European agreements of 2006, which established, for example, that the Rioja designation of origin was protected and safeguarded from copies such as those of the semi-denominations that they make with other realities. But there's more. I used to talk about precarious working conditions and you talked about public procurement. I believe that we are referring to the same thing, we are referring to American legislation which, since about 1930, allows American companies to have priority in the award of public works. That doesn't sound bad to me, I don't want the United States to take that away. What I'd like is for you to do it here. That is why we are raising the debate on the social clauses, and that is why we have repeatedly raised – and that is why I was telling you that these debates affect many debates here – that this government can do some more protectionist line of intervention for its sectors. And I do not want the United States to remove that line of intervention or protection for its companies, what I want is for the European Union to have it for them and for them, and for the Basques and Basques to have it too. There is also another element: there is also less bank control. Also within TTIP documents – and you know it – a greater banking laxity is established. It seems that the "Panama papers" have displeased many, but those many we paint very little, and those who really paint would like to have more Panama papers and more accounts in Panama. There was also talk of the principle of health, and I end with this – I certainly leave many things in the tinter. Again, the logic of eliminating the precautionary principle is reimposed. That is an atomic bomb against the health of European citizens, because we will be able to experiment with their bodies and with their lives. Why don't you do it with the Sovaldi? Why, for example, do they not allow the Sovaldi to be exploited normally and yet they can normally flood us with products that are not scientifically tested on their safety for people's health? It is a coup d'état to democracy and it is a coup d'état to sovereignty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u83	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Matute, the red lines I was talking about are not the wishes of this Councillor and of this Government, they are the red lines that the European Parliament establishes, and it writes them and passes them to Mrs Malmström to negotiate. And within these red lines is where it appears that Commissioner Malmström is required that at the moment when the agreement is reached, it pass through Parliament and everyone – and I think I have said so, and if not, I correct it – the Member States, through all the parliaments of the Member States. It is true that, as this House is not a party, it is not a Member State, of course, going through Spanish courts. In any case, as Mr Hollande has said at the moment, as France has said, I do not believe that there is any Member State at the present time willing to accept those demands on the part of the United States as they are at present. I believe that you are now alerting to things that are written there, but that are not what the European Union is currently willing to accept, but are elements that the United States is demanding. And it is clear that in an agreement each puts its maximum demands, that we do not like them and that we will not accept them – well, I wish I could accept them personally – and that the European Union will not be able to accept them if, according to the mandate given to it in the European Parliament, Commissioner Malmström negotiates it in that format. And I don't have to believe her right now. You are talking about a number of aspects that are – yes, it is true – in the position of the United States and that alert us, and I have told you from the beginning, because the whole issue of education, health and public services in general, is demanded from the European Parliament to be preserved. And you're talking about TTIP and TISA. Yes, it is true that we are focusing on one and we are not addressing the other. But, nevertheless, I would like to refer to a specific aspect of what will have to be discussed at some point too: what is a public service and what is not. And a public service is something for which a certain government pays and guarantees its citizenship. And another thing is who lends it at a certain time. In this case, the corresponding institution (either government, parliament or municipality) guarantees that it is public, guarantees it in certain quality parameters and pays it. And sometimes it will be provided by a private, as can be – and I think quickly – certain transport lines that we have, and on other occasions it will be provided by a public, but the guarantee of public service is given by the institution, and I believe that this is what we have to preserve in this case as well. You are talking about that the debate is different, it is not between the United States and Europe, but it is between society and certain transnationals, you say, between multinational companies, I understand, and society. I think we have to stay..., and it is true that multinationals and lobbies are putting a lot of pressure on the United States, but probably on the European side too there is a pressure of other characteristics that we are not seeing at the moment either, and what we have to achieve is that above and above these lobbies are the interests of the citizens of all countries, in this case, of the European Union, which we want to guarantee. The topic of protectionist interventionism at a certain point. It is true that on many occasions we are very jealous of how the United States is protected, and I recognize it, and we are working on a specific issue that I have previously been asked to speak about, and when we are talking about what happens to steel in Europe we would like to be as protectionist as the United States in order to ensure that our companies have different guarantees of market access and of being able to work. Therefore, I do not deny it, I would also like to be able to establish such actions more in accordance with what the United States can do, but I insist, we will give a chance to negotiate the treaty in accordance with those red lines established by the European Parliament, which are, of course, as a government, we subscribe to 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "Interpation, Ichaensus González, a member of the Basque Socialists, made for the president, the chief of the Eplegu and the suboralcial departments, the lack of efficiency of the profession-Euskal Office." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u85	Good morning. Well, counselor, this morning it is up to you to purge a penance that is not yours, and you have already dealt with this matter in previous points. It is true that we too have come to the argument of the episode of that verbal slip of the vice-counselor. We don't want to stop at that. This is an issue whose dimension has already been given by the informational echo, the media echo, and there is nothing more to say, but it is true that these manifestations reflect and betray the subconsciousness of the Government itself in this matter. Because, moreover, Mr. Counsellor, nothing has actually been said that you have not expressed in an open and public way when you have acknowledged, at last, frankly and sincerely, the limitations that exist in the service, have you not? In your responses this morning to questions raised in the same terms, you have appealed to the Lanbide Strategic Plan, and then I have decided to change the way in which I intervened or the approach I had to intervene and I have come to the strategic plan to make a small review, because the fact is that, apart from the specific episode, to ask and question what Lanbide and the public employment service are and everything that rests there remains a matter always of topicality, always of permanent control and always of necessary debate; therefore, even if such an event had not occurred, that we used it as an argument to bring the issue back, it would always be relevant and appropriate to deal with these issues. Then, going to Lanbide Strategic Plan 2013-2016, we started with the guiding principles of Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service, and among the guiding principles we talk about quality and personalized attention in their services. Well, we believe that, truly, the insertion itineraries need to be completed. Then we will say it, but there have also been major deficits in guidance, there have been problems with applications at some point. In the field of training, we believe that there is a lack of relationship with companies in order to obtain training with a commitment to recruitment. Another of the guiding principles talks about permanent dialogue with social actors. Well, then I have a question coming up about this too. I have been particularly heavy on the issue of the Social Dialogue Bureau, I have urged on successive occasions. I understand the problems that the Government has had with certain parts of the trade union world, but with those who have lent themselves to, say, being part of that Social Dialogue Bureau, we see that there are also important discrepancies on how to implement the agreements of that Social Dialogue Bureau. Then, on another page, which would be 46, they were then talking about an issue that we also brought here at some other time, and it was the Employment Act. Well, the Employment Act fell, and therefore the activity that Lanbide is not going to deploy, and, of course, neither is its regulatory development. On page 48, line of action, of course, because then, for all this it also takes some decoder, it is very cryptic this of the axes, the cooperatives... At least it doesn't give me that much. But I can see the announcement: "Develop and provide useful foresight information in the end-user service code of the Labour Market Observatory". Well, we see that what has been raised in this strategy does not agree with the communication difficulties that are being experienced with the collaborating entities in many cases, and, in fact, many of them have problems, sometimes, with communication even with the regional offices, and what we are told is that many calls are being delayed, they are, let's say, left at the Office of Economic Control as stagnant water, and they come out when they come out or do not finish. Page 50; talked about consolidating, enhancing integral and personalized orientation. You see, we believe that that is really where the most important part or the most important challenge of the public employment service is, because here, these days, above all, the debate on the intermediation raised by Lanbide has become important, if it is too much, if it is too little, if it is above the rest. Of course, mediation has to do, in any case, with people who already have some employability. However, the public employment service, we believe, should place the emphasis precisely on those who have the greatest difficulties of employability, those who have the greatest difficulties of insertion. For that, orientation is very important, personalized insertion itineraries are fundamental. And here now, as I say, the debate on intermediation has become very important, but we believe that we must focus, above all, on orientation. And as I see that I'm running out of time, that I didn't think, I'm gonna give this a little more wax. System for the recognition of certificates of professional experience. Well, here we have also had a few complaints, because it was not finished recognizing the professional experience but the theoretical knowledge that the issuing of the certificate requires, and this has also led to complaints from the sectors concerned; in particular, here came with quite a concern, for example, the employees, the ones who carry out the home help. On page 107, he talked about the employment solidarity fund. That fell in the first quarter of an hour before the strategy document itself was published. And then, finally, finally, the lehendakari also raised and questioned who has to manage the social aid, the social benefits, which Lanbide carries. That, it would also be interesting for the Government to really clarify what it thinks of all this, because at the time, when it was decided to link active policies to liabilities, it was precisely to try to improve employability. We believe that, finally, with all the difficulties it poses, and knowing that Lanbide has also made its greatest efforts in the provision of GIR and supplementary housing pension, it would be useful to clarify whether the Government really understands, accepts and understands the importance of active employment policies being linked to passive policies. And, therefore, I have to carry out the ritual question: what are the intentions of the Basque Government in order to make Lanbide's public service useful to the unemployed in the face of the failure of management during this parliamentary term? Well, the data you've given before to the other parliamentarians don't give it to me, because I've followed them, and, in addition, I already counted on the government to always be loaded with data on their work, that everything won't be... For example, in order to see that everything is not critical, I must admit that the persecution against fraud has improved in the collection of aid, that is, that we can also appreciate that in some areas it is improved. But, Mr President-in-Office, the origin of this inquiry, as I say, is not a matter of debate, but it does note that the Government itself and you, in some cases, have recognised major deficits, major weaknesses in the public employment service, and that is why this question: what are you going to do, in what is left of the legislature, to overcome those deficits and weaknesses?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u87	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, is a good day. In this answer also I shall repeat many times, that is true, although I will ask you to forgive me beforehand. For in the case of three equal questions, the same answers, or the like. This is gonna be longer, so I'll say more. Primero. Agradezo el tono de su intervención, señor Ichaso. See agradezco de verdad. And I'll tell you something else about it, then I'll go down to the river. But I can't help the expressions you've made, a little, just to show you the pain. You have made the consent of the great progress of the profession before the challenge he had in this law, but not so much as I think. I used to say that when we came to be a system that cohesion and activates it, you, the Socialist Party, in the former Government, have been responsible for it, and I don't like to admit it. Let me take a look at what this legislature has been like. I'll try not to repeat myself, but something will be inevitable. In any case, I would like to say one thing to you: if the words of the Vice-Advisor corresponded to the subconscious, the subconscious, in any case, perhaps more corresponded to the citizenry, not to the Government. The Government is also part of the citizenry. In January 2013, upon the arrival of this new Executive, after the previous legislature, the improvement in the handling of some issues, certainly, that of the most vulnerable groups in the processing of the GIR has been a priority objective, and so – these are not repeated data – the structural queues of the offices, those photos we saw, have been removed. The criteria for the implementation of the law have been agreed with both Ararteko and the social actors, and the implementation of the mandates of this House has also been included over and over again. Days of delay in the processing of files have been reduced from 102 days at the beginning of 2013 to 46 days at present. We're within 60 days. The quality of the resolution of the files has been substantially improved, as demonstrated by the 42% decrease in the number of replenishments lodged between 2013 and 2014; or Ararteko's complaints, which have halved over the same period, from 833 to 433. We have improved – and I thank you for your recognition – the procedures against fraud and non-fulfilment of duties as collectors, 1,300 suspensions per month, and organizations promoting benefit fraud have been pursued in collaboration with Ertzaintza. Furthermore, you know, Mr Itxaso, that we are in a process of deep reflection on aspects to be improved in the management of GIR, which we hope to be able to transfer to this House shortly. And another fact: during 2012 45,000 RGI files were processed; in 2015 there have been more than 128,000. They've multiplied by four, and we solve them on time. Of these processes, 33,000 have been revisions. In total, 110,000 have been revised in 2015, 85% of all that is being processed. More and better control is being done, more files are being reviewed, the system is being properly operated, ensuring that only those who meet the requirements are covered. And that makes for more payroll readjustments, which we sometimes suffer criticism for, but I have to point out that this benefit is a living and absolutely necessary benefit for those who ask for it, and therefore we prioritize that families have at their disposal the rent on day 1 of each month, and that does and will cause these payroll readjustments to continue to be generated necessarily. But do you know how much of the adjustments were claimed in 2012? 0 per cent. Do you know how much has been claimed in 2015? 100%. In the social protection index I am not going to compare myself to Spain – and I do not care, of course, to compare myself to Spain – but it is going to allow me to compare myself to that of Europe, since we can do so through the AROPE indicators, which are known to all of you and which measure the risk rate of poverty and social inclusion. This indicator places Euskadi at one of the lowest rates in Europe. The government, this department and Lanbide are working to ensure that people have access to the labour market, those who are capable of doing so, and that is why there has been a form of comprehensive intervention in people and businesses in order to shift the current approach of service-centred intervention towards results and impacts on people themselves, which you have asked me to do too. I told Mrs Garrido earlier, it is true, that people are entering the labour market and that they have the skills and abilities that the current labour market needs. But the fruits are also here: the number of personalized diagnoses – I have been reminded, that we have to do so – by guidance services has increased by 180% since 2013. The number of personalized itineraries has increased by almost 70%. We have improved, not at all, I never pretend to be self-complacent, and the day that I do, I will understand that you are very critical of us. More than 2,000 training actions have been carried out for 25,000 people; I do not repeat this because I have said so before. Mr Itxaso, this is not self-congratulation, it is data, and it is data recognized with state and European contexts. And thanks to the steps taken, to the progress made, today we can say that the system, with its difficulties, protects our most vulnerable population, favours the inclusion of the most disadvantaged groups to which you refer and that sometimes they cause me some discomfort, because I sometimes get the impression that we protect the most disadvantaged groups and we are attacked precisely, with criteria sometimes, because we do not attend sufficiently to the most employable groups. But we protect, we promote active inclusion and we activate people at work in Euskadi. We'll keep activating more. And I leave for the second part some of the other considerations, which I would like to make in the same tone with which you have addressed me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u89	Man, it is important to be moderate in forms and radical in content, especially because one is no longer right because his rictus, his gesture, is more aggressive; that is, the reason comes from... Of course, I accept everything you have said in response to both this Member and those who have preceded me on this subject, I accept that. But then I have an important doubt, and it is how, with all these obvious improvements, the prestige of the public employment service is what it is, and, well, the opinion of it has been a prelude to this intervention of mine. And I am very surprised because the government and the party that supports it, if they do something right, is, precisely, propaganda, and what does good is to sell fairly well what they do or even what they don't do. So, how is it possible that the public employment service has gone gradually, and despite these continuous improvements that the government is making, that I assume and accept, but it does not correspond to the opinion that users, collaborating entities, trade unions, opposition groups... Man, it's too coincidental, too unanimous in that lack of prestige – let's say – of Lanbide, of the Basque Employment Service. That is why, without doubt of these concrete improvements (the reduction of queues, in short, the reduction of fraud, all these improvements that are undoubtedly being made), if we are to be congratulated, I understand that it is the natural task of the Government. But how is it possible that, despite everything, that prestige goes backwards, if it gets further backwards? But it doesn't improve, it doesn't improve the opinion of the Basque Employment Service. Then he says they're in compliance with the terms of reference. Man, I'm used to fool around with some issues that affect my area and then, like a can, so I go with them and pull them out again: special employment centres, which I already know sounds like, at last, like a nun, but it does affect especially vulnerable people, like people with some kind of disability, and then, of course, I'm really surprised that the Basque Observatory for Social Economy, which we were dealing with yesterday on this subject, actually, in its report talks about the fact that there has even been an increase in special employment centres. And I say, "Shut up! How is that possible? But if the registration has not been created and without that registration you cannot enable companies!". It's a question I'll ask you, I don't know where, but believe me... But I see that this agreement that has been made here on several occasions, the Government remains unfulfilled, and it has sent a draft decree which, in the light of comparative autonomous law, is also not that... in the end, I don't remember it now, but I could have included other things that other decrees of other autonomy collect. Well, that's an unfulfilled deal. Collaborating entities. In short, both the public and the private have important complaints. And, of course, public entities are mostly development agencies, that is to say, they are joint municipal negotiations, and that is precisely what is at stake in the other decisions of the strategic plan, in short, being in connection with regional and local needs. But it seems that there is, in the end, I do not know whether to break communications but, of course, some difficulty manifested by these entities. So, Mr. Counsellor, and I do not want to run out of time just because you have it, which I ask you is: with all those efforts that you are making to improve – which undoubtedly some results give – the opinion of users, of parties, of trade unions is less and less satisfactory, and that is why we ask: what are you going to do, beyond these concrete improvements, to make it a public reference service, as Lanbide should be? Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u91	Thank you, ma'am. I'm not going to start where I was meant to start, remembering the responsibility for what situation we received Lanbide in 2012; at least I quote it, just like that. The opinion and prestige of the service of the employment offices is not a Basque question, but of all the employment offices in Spain, of all the employment services. I don't know if you remember, but I didn't know the name of the employment offices, because I always got the words unemployment offices, because public opinion only understood them to sign up for unemployment. Of course, changing an opinion, a culture and a prestige of an organization, of a service, is something that takes a while. I believe that everyone – and in this we all agree – believes in the Basque Employment Service, and I believe that we all have to make a unanimous effort, in addition, to try to gradually change that bad opinion which I obviously share with you, but which, of course, is not Lanbide's, but that of public employment services in Spain; what harm will have been done in history so that we have to continue so long with this slab. And with that, I'm not complacent. I will give you a fact, yes, that it is contained in a report of conclusions and recommendations from the assessment of the factors affecting Lanbide's performance. Text of a document delivered to us at the Sectoral Employment Conference at the end of April by the Ministry of Employment and Social Security in Madrid. Well, well, I'm going to quote some conclusions. He says: "Lanbide, during his short walk, has taken on a challenge that has brought about the fusion of three structures..." – as we well know – "... with the consequent organizational and management reorganization". (It hasn't been easy at all.) "The functions of an employment system itself have also incorporated income-guarantee income management into its functions..." – which was discussed extensively earlier – "... the supplementary housing provision, previously managed by the deputies and therefore has had to develop services. "However, Lanbide maintains a strong commitment to defining and standardizing processes, as demonstrated by the fact that its strategic plan defines specific lines of action aimed at proceduralizing and standardizing workflows." This is said by an audit commissioned by the Ministry of Employment, Deloitte, and in which the Basque Employment Service appears with some outstanding, many approved and some suspended, but most of the Spanish public employment services appear with almost everything suspended. As far as the relationship with employers is concerned, this report recommends that we continue to work, as it cannot otherwise be, to position Lanbide as a reference to companies. This report has been used to assess state employment services. We can say that Lanbide and his work as the Basque Employment Service are among the best in Spain. And I repeat my request, I am grateful that you have not again fallen into the appeal of error, I sincerely thank you. I believe that we all have to work for a system that protects our people, that favours the inclusion of workers and that activates people on the job in Euskadi, a system in which you played a decisive role in their creation, which we are trying to improve and which I hope the next legislature will improve it even further. I accept your criticism of the question of the registration of insertion centres, without further ado. And I end by saying that it is a system and a public service that needs the unanimous support of all parliamentarians in this House, without exception. I do not call for support for this Government, I do not call for support for this Government, I call for support to ensure a public service that works for Basque citizens and, above all, for those who need it most.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Toña. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, "about the measures to prevent the litigants of the Igor López de Muninuza EH Collector's members from developing economics and contestations, such as those of Epsilon City." Mr. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u93	Question, I look like I've done it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u94	In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u95	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Lopez de Munin, it's best to clear up some things before you can answer your question. The points I've done in this camera more than once, but how your questions are repeated before, I think they are to be emphasized, and that the financial aids received by Epsilon and City projects were to be considered. And as you know, the investigation funding has a special system, but it has to be solved again, and I'll explain it again. The clarification I make is not new, but, as you reiterate the same things you always say, I have to reiterate what a deep research grant means. And it happens as it happens across Europe and around the world: it happens when there is a failure on the market, at the only time when there is a failure on the market. What is that moment? When private initiative does not arrive, because it has no capacity or because there is a lot of risk. And it is unique and exclusively at that time when it makes sense and can be publicly intervened with lost in-depth subsidies, because the project carries risk. And that's the help the Hiriko and Epsilon projects had. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u97	Good morning. I'm sorry to seem so heavy or so heavy. The question was not whether this project or what type of project it was, but whether something had been done in relation to the approaches or considerations that had been asked of the Government through the opinion of the commission of inquiry, whether or not anything had been done. And you have to remember, because it would also have to be put in place. A few months ago news appeared from the different courts of accounts referring to the case of Epsilon and Hiriko. Different news, and none of them good, at least from our point of view, in relation to what were projects that, no matter how much research they were, should at least be demanded of them. And the minimum, minimum, minimum that should be demanded of them is, at least, that the management of such projects be decent. And it wasn't in any of the cases. And it is that we are seeing how those responsible, both for Epsilon and Hiriko, for Epsilon is no longer, is disenfranchised in its management, has a three-year disenfranchisement. Hiriko's now face the same thing. Mr Villadelprat, of Epsilon, is also in criminal proceedings, and those of Hiriko will surely also face it. How can you tell us that management and that the research project you give for good when there is absolutely nothing good and when the courts are saying that the management of such projects was beyond inadequate, even have some charges, of which they are accused, of a criminal nature? It can't be good; I mean, you can put all the bandages in your eyes, but it can't be good. And in the face of this kind of project, which we and we denounced, Parliament, through the opinion, made recommendations to the government, and that is what I wanted to know, what has been done to prevent it from happening again. And the recommendations were very clear: there was talk of strengthening with procedures the tasks of the Technology Unit of the SPRI, there was talk of urging the Government to clarify and reform the regulations governing the activity and social object of the Network of Technological Parks, and there was talk of urging the Government to evaluate and improve the role of the Basque Council for Economic Promotion. In the face of that, what have they done? Because the government's mistake at the time was very clear, and not only in the opinion it appears, but I also believe that we are already beginning to recognise – and should at least start – that, beyond being a successful project in terms of research, I don't think so, and I don't think anyone here thinks so. , management was catastrophic. But not only that, it's costing us money. The 16 million euros, I remember, 2014, you telling us "There are at least two offers put on the table and surely one goes out. And not only that, we're going to make money, we're not going to cascade 16 million, but we're going to win 21." What happened? What happened? A decisive success, that of this Government is a decisive success. What you're not saying is that those offers are always falling apart. How much does it cost us to keep that pavilion? Isn't there a political responsibility for buying that pavilion through a mortgage assignment? What's going on here? Has the government done anything to prevent situations like this from happening again or do we continue to give the money to the party's friends?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u99	Mr. López de Munain, I didn't mean to call you heavy or anything like that. I just feel like we're always debating the same things. But, well, in any case, we're going to differentiate all the things you've intended to mix. And what I intended to tell you is: one thing is a research project, which carries a very important risk always – and, if not, ask yourself – and one thing is what you think or what I can think, and another thing is the realities. A research project always carries risks, and you don't want to accept it. Good. Another aspect is the management of a given project, and in this case we are talking about two projects that have not really had exemplary management, and are being directed in a different area. I am not defending the management of these projects, I am not defending it, I will be absolutely respectful of what comes out of there. And, thirdly, we're talking about what I did, what this department did with the suggestions that were made, which you didn't ask me that either, but, well, I'm going to answer. What steps have I taken to ensure that they are not repeated again? First of all, you tell me about the loss of EUR 16 million. They're not lost, the goods are there. It is true that we have not succeeded in being able to sell them, it is true, but they are there, they have not been lost, they have not disappeared, they have not been volatilized in the air, the infrastructure exists. Secondly, in reference to SPRI's Technology Unit, which is where there was really more to do. Well, it has been strengthened with people, it has been strengthened with much greater monitoring and follow-up. We have established a monitoring and evaluation system that has never been established before, in accordance with European legislation, which allows the project to be evaluated when it is submitted, to be monitored year by year, to be monitored and to evaluate the results five years later, up to five years later, of what has been achieved and to take appropriate measures to correct it. Therefore, a monitoring and evaluation system that did not exist. Thirdly, everything that is the Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation, as you know, has been modified to improve the process of evaluating its compliance and how they receive aid programmes. Finally, the grant programmes dedicated to the Basque Science and Technology Network as a whole, to companies in particular, have also been modified so that we can improve the intensity and increase the intensity of this evaluation and improve the results that we are achieving. All of these recommendations are therefore already being implemented to improve the security and follow-up of these projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is that Ichasus González, a member of the Social Society, a member of the Basque Sozalists, made to Enplex and the head physician of the Society, as to the future of the Society." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u101	Again, counselor, with the theme of work. The next question concerns the lifting of the Social Dialogue Bureau of the Workers' Commissions on the understanding that they were delaying the implementation of the agreements adopted; specifically, they pointed out the relief contract. You, in demonstrations to the media, said you didn't see enough reason to leave the table in the delays. Man, the delays that have occurred end up being a little exasperating, some groups in this House end up feeling some irritation about those..., because you won't remember it, perhaps, but in the Budget debate I asked you about the issue of the relief contract decree, because there were also ESC opinions that talked about those decrees that had been deleted and that were being amended, you replied that no, that with a resolution it was enough, that no decrees would be needed by then. This is what he replied to me, he said: "We have come to the conclusion that it will not even be necessary, fortunately for the young and the elderly, to make a decree, but that it will suffice with a resolution of the director general of Lanbide to choose to implement the relief contract". Well, do you know when they made that resolution? It was published on 14 April, once Workers' Commissions rose from the table. That is why I ask you, counselor, what the government is going to do, what you, your department, are going to do to restore the confidence of the social partners who were at the table. Because also, knowing the precedents we have, they want to give reason to those who have questioned the Social Dialogue Bureau from the union side, they want to give reason to them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u102	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u103	Madam Chair, may I have your permission from the seat? Mr Itxaso, the social partners have not formally transferred this alleged loss of confidence, nor have they abandoned the usefulness of the Social Dialogue Bureau; therefore, they do not have to recover it. As you, moreover, I suppose and hope that the social partners will not be affected by this issue on the eve of elections, since the important issues that are currently on the Social Dialogue Bureau have to do with a relationship that respects the autonomy of the parties and that is bilateral between workers and employers, in which the Government has little to say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u105	Mr Councilman, I have been a particularly insistent Member of Parliament on the subject of the Social Dialogue Bureau, especially in the first part of the parliamentary term, where it was not convened. You, in your previous inquiry, have spoken of how the government found service after having been ruling the socialists. But at this point I must say that the Social Dialogue Bureau, with those who were willing to participate in it, worked throughout the whole exercise, the whole legislature. This government took two years to understand that there was no color with the majority power station, and with LAB, two years in which the table had no... When in the end they decide to do so with those who were willing they begin to make agreements and we see that, in fact, those agreements, as we have denounced here by the opposition on many occasions, take time to comply, and then I see that in some of the demonstrations he makes in the media he comes to say that there are technical and legal difficulties in making the decrees. I cannot believe, Mr. Counsellor, that the legal services, nothing more and nothing less than this Government, may have difficulty in making decrees that are in substance, in substance, replicating earlier decrees. And I cannot believe that when drafting a text on general provisions on active employment policies, the Economic and Social Council must also amend the plan, which I believe has at different times corrected somewhat, in short, the spirit behind those decrees. Therefore, to the long list that I have put to you before entities not very satisfied with the work of the Government added to that of the ESC.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u106	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u107	Thank you, ma'am. Like you, Mr Itxaso, I too want to promote the Social Dialogue Bureau, no doubt and whoever it is. I wish everyone were, but I'm not going to stop for a minute because there's no one. During these weeks, to give you some data, we have been working together with the members of the Social Dialogue Bureau, which on the other hand has a photo from time to time that with me it has never been done – because I don't want it – but that many times as it works it is in the form of technical commissions. Well, you've made this meeting with the completion of the Basque Employment Strategy 2020. We jointly closed the diagnosis on 13 April; we held, with their participation, a meeting with more than a hundred people, in order to carry out the debate and contrast of the aforementioned strategy, which will be approved this month. The day before yesterday I had a long conversation with the secretary general of Workers' Commissions and others that I obviously have with other secretaries and other secretaries general, but I don't need pictures for that. On the other hand, the formula for the implementation of the only issue left pending in those agreements remains to be adopted: the employment programme for sustainable construction and rehabilitation. But I was negatively informed in some respects, unfavorably, by the Basque Competition Authority. And why, Mr. Itxaso? Because agreements are agreements of political and labour content, which then have to pass through legal filters and not always pass them. And the same thing happened with the delay with the relay contract and now it's happening with the rehabilitation thing. The unfavorable opinion was still taken to the table on 7 April, before the Technical Commission, asking it to hold a meeting. We haven't had it yet. But the most important issue at this time is certainly the debate on the model of labour relations and collective bargaining. At the meetings of the Social Dialogue Bureau on 16 November 2005, Confebask presented its document, "Principles and criteria for a model of labour relations", and part of that document was rather a matter of human resources management. But it was, of course – it would be good – for good. At the meeting on 10 February, the trade unions Commissions and UGT presented their document "Collective bargaining and labour relations in Euskadi", which had transferred it in advance. Both sides were called upon to negotiate a common approach, and in the face of deep differences, they proposed to the Chairman of the Labour Relations Council to make contacts in order to resume the process. Both approaches constitute proposals for their discussion and subsequent agreement, an agreement that must be adopted by workers' representatives and not by the Government, depending on collective autonomy. And, we, all we do is propitiate it for the proper functioning of the working world. The matter is important enough and it has scope, because I have no doubt that all the social partners maintain interest and confidence. But all the above is not an obstacle to making possible approaches in the Social Dialogue Bureau to reformulate the scope and areas of involvement of social actors in the future. The lehendakari has again invited ELA to put their demands on the table, at which more can be done. And I remain committed to ensuring that the social partners and the Government dialogue and try to agree on the issues that really affect Basque workers at that table. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u108	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 16th point in the theme list: "Queer, Xabier Isasi Balanzazari, the parliamentary member of the group assembled to Ogasun and Finant, to destroy the reference of the mortgages by IRPH. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u109	Madam President of the Parliament, chief officers, members of the legislature, good days. It happened a few days ago that a customer won the verdict of IRPH in the courthouses of the Arabs, and that's where the Arkbank brought up an appeal! For this reason, the head of the department to Mr. Gatzgagabary, here is the question: What do you think of the behaviour of the Arkbanks on the Index of the loan reference known to IRPH acronym? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. Isas. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u111	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, Mr. Isas. Look, you're talking about the dove. and the enterprise, yours, has been very long, and mentions so many of the doctrines, in which, first of all, this year, it is the Dove to speak of an enterprise adopted in this chamber in February, and in addition to that, it is a very long and very direct way to put it there. And what you've got to do is not talk about it, but we've got to tie it up... You mention the doc has another connection, the Chamber also has an initiative in June 2013 about the pointer of mortgage loans. It is said there, that the Chamber required the authorities of the Common-wealth, both to the Government, or to the General Court, to change the mortgage-mails. It happened then, in June, when three months later we accepted the Acts Acting Acting Law, a change of legislation came into it, a couple of plots of the mortgage steps. The Chamber follows, and has its weight, and its will manifests itself in the course of your doping and penetrating action, and is here in June accepted initiative. On the one hand, it's still the same thing to say in order to measure the government of the State. What happens is that you have to change the financial law in general in the State. And changing the financial law is the competition of the state, of the government, or of the legislative power. On the other hand, the institution of the European Union is to make a proclamation to the European Union. In fact, a week ago, as you will be informed, the European Union has opened a procedure, in what position is the position in the financial law of Spain on the administration of Spain. And require some slight information to be made in the financial law of the state to be rapid in this procedure. Third, then, by approving the Chambers by making a proclamation on your initiative that we're willing to accept, and, of course, that we're willing to accept, we're in the form of government, to have the means of establishing, appropriating in form and preservation of consumers. In this sense and context it has come that you are speaking of the Dove in action, a trial that has happened in the court of the Arbatha. And what is said in this court is, on the one hand, that from the point of view of transparency things have not been well made in this financial law, that is to say, the customers, the loan-lenders, the knowledge of the other kind of wisdom, information, and their understanding. There are other arguments, too, and we're laughing, and we've given the Aukan hearings to respect the contents of that sentence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u112	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u113	Mrs. President of the Parliament, thank you. We're talking about his behavior, Mr. Salt Farmer, the Arkbanks, that bank that's derived from the savings and created by his savings. How do you like the behaviour of the Arkbanks? He's made the appeal recently, Mr. President has shown himself in the media telling us that the Ark Bank is rooted in the Basque People's society. I think he's rooted in a dumphouse, and usury is the behavior of the Arkbanks. I have to ask you again: What do you think of the role of the Arkbank that applies to IRPH? What are you gonna do about it? What does your department have to do in defense of the client's rights of the Ark Bank? What's it supposed to do to get control of the Arks? How can your department guarantee the social and public control of the Arkbanks and the banks? That's the question. You didn't answer me. You described... information, you're a very good memory, but by chance you forget what I ask you. You should study short-term memory, Mr. Chief. The question is: What's the good of making fun of the Arkbanks during the IRPade trial? What does your department have to do to defend the rights and interests of the clients of the Ark Bank? That's the question. He's made a present of it, and in February there's a decision made in this House, what I've made of him is a long one, and you've told him yourself about the European Parliament and so on. But the question again, whether it be so in your memory, in your short-term memory, is locked up: What's to be done? What do you intend to do when you're driving this parliament to fulfill and execute what you're determined to do? Where is the public and social controls on the Arkbank? If you were to answer these questions, we would be grateful, and above all the customers in the trunk would probably be relieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Isas. To answer, Mr. Gagatebary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u115	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Isasi, who, as I said before, is the judge of those lenders and lenders, that is given you, respected. And tell me what the reason is, because there has been an independence in those loans, and, on the other hand, there has been lack of information or expressions. That's what you think you're supposed to be respecting the court for. Two, you know that we have no competition about financial legislation. Our competition is to regulate the social action of the bank operations, which is important. Three, you know, it's about the power that you're talking about from the consumers and from another group of hooey. the intermediary, the formation, the aid of the consumer. That's what he's doing. You have to keep those stories clear. And in the end, the fourth, the funk, with all the reasons you're given in that sentence, you must be respected because you're in the business of the loan and the loan.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u116	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. The 18th point in the subject list: "I'm asking you, Mien Galástegui Oyarzábal, a member of the Social Security Department, preparing the bill for the Basque Police." Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u117	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, let's start with what we agree on: that laws have to promote equality between women and men where imbalances and opportunities are detected, and that we also agree that legal certainty is given to the way in which we want to promote that equality. Because, as everyone will recall, measures of positive discrimination have been initiated in Ertzaintza, a body, a counsellor, strongly masculinized, with a minimal presence of female agents and, above all, of female leaders, if I am allowed this gender discrepancy, but there is no other way to say so. So far the paradox. They will also recall that a judgement was handed down that annulled the way in which we had agreed from the institutions on how to promote equal opportunities for women in Ertzaintza. Following the judgment, even from the discrepancy, it was appropriate to offer a new regulatory framework and, above all, to do so quickly. The legislative calendar that you yourselves approved at the beginning of the mandate set a date: first quarter of 2015. Then, in those very updates, you'll know what criteria you've made because you've never explained them to us, you've been delaying it and now you're going to bring it to us. I say that they will bring it to us because this law has not yet arrived, two months after the work in this House is completed. This is absolutely unheard of. I ask you a question, but I can think of three answers. Either everything you say collect in the law to have a more effective, more efficient and egalitarian police do not believe it either you or your own agents, so it is much better to bring it when there is no time for much debate on this, or this appeal to equality that you are wagging now and proclaiming to the four winds is not among your emergencies. Or, and simply, they have no idea how to regulate this and they considered that with the 2016 Horizon they saved their mandate. Missed horizons, counselor. Anyway, this is my perception. I expect your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u119	Thank you, ma'am. Again, members of the legislature, good morning. Indeed, delay announced and communicated in time, Mrs Gallastegui. Indeed, when we drafted the legislative calendar (the first months of 2013), the forecast was to complete this draft regulation in the first half of 2015. But those forecasts were modified to better address the proposals received and the new deadlines were communicated in time. Both, therefore: foresight and communication. With the modified timetable, we committed ourselves to forwarding the preliminary draft to the Governing Council in the first half of 2016. Target achieved: The draft law was adopted by the Governing Council on 26 April. We are committed to passing five laws in this legislature: three are already a reality. The project for the prevention and extinction of fires and rescue, we have just withdrawn it because it has been nine months in this Parliament without debate and because the consensus with which it was drawn has been broken, and you have also contributed to the withdrawal by submitting an amendment to the whole. Now we feel like we're late with the Basque police law. I think they're excuses, Mrs. Gallastegui. There is time, do not do the same as with the draft law on the prevention and extinction of fires and rescue. Contribute, encourage the adoption of the Basque Police Act and thus help to give a decisive impetus to the incorporation of women into the police services, as this society is demanding.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u120	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u121	Thank you, Madam President. I listen to you, counselor, and I come to the conclusion exactly as I have commented to you before. Besides, no doubt. The reasons for the delay are the three of which I spoke to him: lack of a police project, little haste with equality, and absolute absence of feeling with those who have to make the law possible, which, by the way, are those people who manifest themselves every day at the gates of this Parliament. And I will add a fourth: lack of respect for this House. And also a fifth: pure propaganda. You have sent this law now to make a number because you have been sending laws by weight in the last few days. I am strengthened by this perception by the unpublished question, counsel, that this bill has not yet arrived here. We do not know the bill, and you have requested a request to appear a long time ago to explain to us something that has not yet been referred to us and that we do not know. And, moreover, now this government – your government, your advisor –, with complete defachation, intends to throw the ball on the roof of this House, where all the groups have shown a great capacity for work and a much higher productivity than that of the government. And throw that ball in your case to try to justify – because you will not be able to do so – your inoperativeness and blame us for not approving in two months the law that you, with all the means at your fingertips, have taken three and a half years to elaborate. And above all, you, a member of this government who repeatedly and justifiably accuses those who sit here of not facilitating those low-cost projects that are sending us to machamartillo in the last few days, goes and asks to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u123	Mrs Gallastegui, I will insist on it so that you draw accounts too and compare. The Department of Security has contributed five bills to the Government's legislative programme for this legislature: the law amending the Elections Act to the Basque Parliament is passed, the law amending the Emergency Management Act is also passed, the Law on Public Shows and Recreational Activities is also passed. Five, three. I remind you that of the six projects to which you committed in the last legislature, the Socialist Party, political leaders of the Department of the Interior, approved only one, only one. Our fourth law, the law on the prevention and extinction of fires and rescue, had already been in Parliament for more than nine months without the slightest effort to discuss and improve it, with a 180-degree last-minute change in criteria by two of the three parties that contributed to its elaboration and, in the light of the position you have maintained – the Socialist Party – neither had any will for any normative text to exist. Now you tell me it's necessary... You don't have time. Well, look, it is not an excuse either for the police bill that we have just referred to this Parliament to be drafted. The adopted legislation incorporates, in addition to positive actions for the incorporation and internal promotion of women in the police of the Basque Country, incorporates, as he also said, the regulation of the professional career, so demanded by the ertzainas, and also incorporates within its content, from within this order, the content of the European Code of Ethics of the police. I therefore believe that it is an important law that collects demands, that collects important regulations for the Basque police, for the Ertzaintza. And, therefore, I ask you, in your part, also to give an impetus to the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u124	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "The question is, the parliamentary members of Carmélo Barrio Barroja Popula Group to the head of the Medical Department on the VIP sports camps "in connection with alcohol." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u125	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Health Adviser, Mrs. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning again. Well, this Parliament recently passed the Addictions Act, as everyone knows, and in it there are new restrictions on the sale and supply of all kinds of alcoholic beverages. And, to this day, what this question seeks is to clarify, because there is some doubt, apparently, there is some contradictory assessment. The best of all, therefore, is that it is the health counselor himself who says how he intends to apply the law in relation to some issues. We asked a question about VIP areas in sports venues. Why? Not because we are not clear on some of the issues, but because there is a public debate at the moment, and in that sense it is good to be clear and in that sense it is good to ask the Government to say how that law will be implemented. During the last few weeks, in some media, different actors, including legal actors, people from the football clubs themselves, have been arguing supposedly through the media with the Department of Health about the consumption of alcoholic beverages in the VIP areas of the sports venues of the Basque Autonomous Community. That debate also, apart from what VIP areas are, is also moving – I say again, so it is read through the media, and that is why clarification – in which alcohol may or may not be supplied in their facilities before and after the arbitrator indicates the start or end of the match respectively. In other words, there is a debate on this issue which, well, in view of what the law says, would be somewhat exceptional, but, well, we want to clarify. In that sense, and in order to shed light on this public debate that exists, or..., I say again, I have also heard lawyers make a particular interpretation of the contents of the law as well, because I would like to know the scope from your department, Mr. Darpón, of the existing precepts in the newly approved Law on Integral Care and Addictions. We would like to know the scope of the provision prohibiting the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages in facilities where sports competitions are held in relation to VIP areas in such venues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u126	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u127	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Mr Barrio, I am concerned about the scope of the precept prohibiting the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages in facilities where sports competitions are held, and I am sure that you and I will agree on the criterion, since you were part of the legislative body that passed the law and, in addition, you are also a member of the paper in which the text was discussed. Our position is clear. Article 31.3 of the Euskadi Integral Act on Addictions and Drug Dependencies prohibits the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages in facilities where sports competitions are held, as well as in social health and social services centres. The prohibition on the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages is the same for all those attending the sporting event, regardless of the location of their locality. If it has not been sufficiently clear to you, I will tell you again: the prohibition of separating and selling alcoholic beverages in the installations of sports is the same to those who go to that sporting event, whatever their seat may be. The rule does not change depending on the location of the locality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u129	Thank you very much, Madam President, and thank you also to Mr Darpón, it has been quite clear. I mean, has the department already communicated to sports clubs that have sports facilities with VIP areas, where so far alcohol, some kind of circular, could be consumed, the approval of this law? I say this again because we have seen that there was some interpretation that talked about not being able to consume alcohol in sports facilities where sporting events are held, logically, but from the point of view of whether the referee pits the beginning of the game or the end of the game, there has been some kind of public controversy. That is, for example, in San Mamés, ten minutes before the referee plays the game, or ten minutes after the referee plays the end of the game, can you drink in the VIP areas? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u130	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u131	Well, I think the law is clear and you all know the spirit with which it has been approved, given the majority with which it was approved. We have addressed the different sports clubs, not only football but also other disciplines, making them the interpretation that we understand the law gives. Horri dagokionez, argia bear of nire hitzaldiaren lehen zatian irakurri disudana, 31.3an chedatutakoa. However, it must also be said that at the moment when this new law begins its course it is normal that in the first weeks of entry into force there may be affected agents who are adapting to the new regulatory framework, since they may have to modify entrenched customs and customs. In this regard, we understand that it is very important to maintain a proactive attitude of providing clear and truthful information, and in this regard we are working from the Department of Health. However, I repeat again: according to the text of the law prohibiting the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages in the facilities where sports competitions are held, it is the same for all the attendees, regardless of their location, and we also understand that it is from the opening of the sports facilities until they close after the sports competition. All I have to say is that it is very important for us to unite efforts by public institutions, sports, associations and society in general in favour of healthy habits, in favour of prevention and, ultimately, in favour of a Euskadi committed to health and well-being, and in favour of achieving the objectives in terms of health, which I believe are in the spirit with which this House passed the law, since the prohibition of the sale, distribution and consumption of alcohol is not a novelty of this law in sports institutions, but at least in two other previous legislative texts it was in the same way. I count on you and your group to contribute to the task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u132	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Ask me, Eva Blanco de Angulo EH collect members of the team to the head physician of the Medical Department, to execute the Integrator's attentions on the sports teams and the Integrations of the Drug Defences." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u133	Thank you all, good noon. Sailburu jauna, gu zuzenagoak izan gara: orin de la hilabete bat Adikzioen eta Drug Mendekotasunen sheureko Arreta Integralari buruzko Legea onartu genuen. EH Bilduk alde bozkatu zuen aldi horretan eta tribuna honetatik hauxe esan genuen, besteak beste: "We applaud and support that the ban on smoking or drinking alcoholic beverages in sports venues applies equally to all people, regardless of where they feel or the locality they occupy, sit in a step or occupy a chair in an area or a VIP stage. It must be admitted that until the passage of this law that did not happen; therefore, it ends with certain privileges that we did not share or share." But to-day we must say that a serious decision is taken at St. Mameson-that is to say, in the VIPs, before the games begin, and after they have finished, they divide spirits. We have our opinion on this decision, but the knowledge of the chief physician is certainly essential. For this reason, we would like to know whether the decision of St. Mams is consistent with that of Adelections, and the 31th of the Law of Inegrators over the dependence of the drugs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u135	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Mrs. Blanco, what I've just said is my answer. That's all you can say. The answer I gave to the question Mr. Barrio made has no interpretation. I will not give my opinion of the nature of the laws. I agree with you. This is not a question of interpretations or opinions, and I therefore take it that you know what scope we understand, with which we present the rule and also with the changes that have taken place in the rule and which this Parliament has adopted. The Department of Health of the Basque Government considers that the prohibition on the supply and sale of alcoholic beverages in facilities where sporting competitions are held is not compatible with consumption either before or after the sporting event, and this has been communicated to those responsible for the mentioned facilities. But I repeat again, this is nothing new. Act No. 14/98 of 11 June 1998 on Sports in the Basque Country, in its article 103 – and it is also in force – already prohibits the introduction and sale of all types of alcoholic beverages in sports competitions. Neither our Law on the Sport of the Basque Country nor the State 19/2007, against violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sport, establish differences with respect to the different areas or localities in sports facilities. The ban is applicable to all participants in the event in question. And, therefore, we understand that it is neither a subject nor a privilege – which we are not going to defend under any circumstances – nor a problem. We understand that the spirit of the law is to link sport to exemplaryness, to link sport to health, and that we will defend at all times.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u136	Thank you, chief physician, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u137	Yes, a moment ago I was telling you that we had our opinion, and our opinion, shared with you as well, is that it seems to us that it is very serious that you are looking for a way to bypass a law to attend to the privileges of a few or a few. After the presentation meeting, it was also very clear to us that that was precisely what we were approving, because I remember, precisely, that I asked very expressly at one of the presentation meetings if we were leaving some door open, and we all had the impression that we were not. We believe that positive discrimination is taking place, also obviating other realities, because it would be tremendously serious if that exception were made in San Mamés and other ambiguous clubs, for example, from municipalities, or on pediments are obeying the law, and it is drawn, precisely, just for these gentlemen or ladies to sit on those stages drinking, drinking alcohol, and so on. What has happened here, I think, is that, after the statements that we made several people that we worked on in that paper, there was a doubt, because one of the parliamentarians who participated in that paper said that this article was subject to various interpretations and that we would have to see what decrees are being published on this issue. So, for this reason, we were not very clear on what the Government's response was in this case. What we want in this case – we already know you share it – is to denounce what has happened, because I think we have to denounce it. There are no exceptions, let alone for four or five people. Maybe because they think that even a Michelin star menu marries better with a river and the potato tortilla bite in the stand has to marry with water forcibly or with a beer without alcohol. And what we don't understand either is that this is going to create a problem, because people who go to those VIP stages are supposed to watch a football game, they're not going to get "macareno" or eat or drink. So... because, if not, something we're doing wrong, something we're doing wrong if, precisely, to go to a football game you have to take four or five gin tonics before. Well, since the counselor also shares our vision and interpretation, what we now wish is that, in addition to applying that law in that article, it applies also in the inspection and sanctioning regime, which is what it corresponds from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u139	Blanco andrea. I believe that the position in this case of the Department of Health and the Government is clear; therefore, I will not reiterate it. However, I believe that it is wrong for you to demonize any specific case. Because in the first weeks of application, as I repeat again, there probably has been and must be more than one agent, not only professional, but also other non-professional models (school, youth, etc.), which need adaptation, even by municipal institutions in some cases governed by you. And then, I, look, as I'm a partner of one of them, I don't do too much on stage, because it's also that I like to go to football, in this case, with one of my children, but don't pretend that you guys don't show up on stage, huh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-06.u140	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The institutional expression, the murder of the Indian leader and the defender of human rights. "On the third of March, Berta Ceceres, the Ethnic leader, the champion of human rights, the chief contender of the multinationals in its own domains, the chief struggler for the native movement and the exploitation of the cannibals. "Berta Ceceres was more than 20 years over the Jewish organization of Honduras and the Cibican Council of the Indies, and besides, he has been a champion and inspirationary warrior, in the reign of the continent and in the defence of social justice and the surrounding justice. "There is not one single case from Cécéresen in Honduras. 111 of the circumcise were the assassins of the Honduras between 2002 and 2014, which has made the most dangerous country for the defenders of human rights, in general, of the greatest rate of human murder, and of the protection of more than 100 persons. "The State of Honduras does not apply them in an efficient manner; for besides Mrs. Cacres, 15 other defenders of human rights have been killed in the midst of 2010 and 2016, though their measures were established. "In the presence of the anxiety of the state: "One. The Basque parliament condemns with the greatest courage the murder of the Berta Ceceres, who has been a native leader who is the chief advocate and multinational leader of the human rights against the individual exploitation and plunder which are made in his own domains. "Two. The Basque parliament protects the two legal proposals which have been unanimously approved in Congress on the 13th of April 2016, concerning the murder and legal prosecution of the human rights of Berta Cáceres. "Hiru. The Basque Parliament supports the European Parliament resolution adopted on 14 April 2016 on Honduras and the situation of human rights defenders, which considers that all European investments should be part of a solid set of environmental and social safeguards policies, and calls on the Commission and the European External Action Service to ensure that European aid is not provided to projects that do not meet the requirement of prior, free and informed consultation with indigenous communities, to ensure meaningful consultation of all affected communities and to ensure compliance with human rights, labour and environmental protection. "Lau. the Basque Parliament supports the International Commission formed by the Inter-American Committee on Human Rights and the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights to investigate the murder of Berta, to clarify the causes of his murder and thus to be able to count on truth, justice and reparation. "Five. The Basque parliament will send this institutional expression to the government of Honduras, and we will ask Berta for truth and justice in the murder of Ceceresen." As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and forty-eight.
