ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I'll let you know that the sixth dot is retired. First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by Ichasus González, the members of the Basque Socialists, the record of special employment centers. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ichaso, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u1	Egun on, lehendakari, councillor, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are bringing the Socialists to this House for the ninth time the matter of the registration of special employment centres. More than half-parliamentary speaking on the same subject... , finally, a few hours of speeches, interventions, arguments. The truth is, it's not nice. It is not pleasant because one begins to have the complex of Mary Jesus and his accordion, which always plays and sings the same song. And the government seems that, although the melody is very catchy, so catchy that all the autonomous communities have made at zero two their corresponding records..., this government has been delaying with arguments of the most diverse. He's not even able to play the song... That's right, he tells us that little birds around here, little birds around there. Because the motion comes from an inquiry in which the counselor told us exactly, in the end, in his reply, what gave rise to this motion: "The fact that there is no register should not automatically be assimilated to the fact that there are no more special employment centres; they will be formal or informal, but there may be more special employment centres even if they are not registered or even if that particular register, ours, has not yet been launched. But, in order to be sure, I find it necessary to clarify that special employment centres, in order for them to operate as such, are not necessarily registered in the register of special employment centres, and this is important." It turns out that, as a year ago and as a peak, the Government sent us to this House a proposal for a draft decree, and it said in the justification: "This latter rule provides in its article 7" (speaking of Regulation 2273/1985) "that the creation of the aforementioned centres will require their qualification and registration in the register of centres of the administrations that will be created within the scope of their competence". But it's very clear, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Lehendakari! The Regulation, the Social Economy Act itself, all the concordant regulations, the transfer decree, all speak of the fact that the qualification for special employment centres is the qualification and registration in the register. This is imperative, it cannot be otherwise; but the Government, as we see in the reply, tells us no. In the end, the Government is going to have to carry out this measure, logically, and it is going to have to create such a register, but by then the opposition will have been tired of saying so and it will remain for the remains that the Government has had to do one of these, which is, in short, part of its competitive acquis, which is in transfers, which is an active employment policy that, like so many others, takes longer than necessary. And it's for this reason. I'm not going to spread anymore. There have been pronouncements in this regard and we once again call on this House to re-prosecute itself before the end of the parliamentary term, and the proposer says: "The registration of special employment centres is finally put in place, thereby enabling employment policies in favour of persons with disabilities to be implemented". The government and the party that supports it have a strong political position, but that should not allow them to see life pass. You have to take advantage of time. Government time is not to recreate itself in that solid position with a windy future, but it is necessary to use it to carry out active employment policies, which is what we are talking about today. And this is a measure that does not have, at all, any work. All the decrees of autonomy are of form; they vary in some matter, in some concept, but they are of form. The Government sent here a draft more than a year and a half ago; it has not turned it into a decree. And it is not true, Mr Councillor, that it is possible to operate without that qualification and registration, because all matters relating to benefit subsidies or aid are associated with the fact of the corresponding qualification and registration. Therefore – I will have two thirds of the time left – we ask this House to reconsider this matter and to give its approval, demanding that before the end of the term of office, which comes to an end, it believes, at one and the same time, that registration. It is not a whimsical undertaking, but there are specific demands. In the interpellation we also raise a number of issues relating to reports on variations in the number of special employment centres. Well, that sort of got cleared up. What we want, Mr. Counsellor, is that we do not have to walk – let us say – with circumloquies or evasive ones, or with contradictory answers like the one we see here. We want this to be a decision that will give effect to this acquis and put into effect the said register for the special employment centres. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u2	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing on the line of teams that don't run, Misa mustn't speak. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Well, the truth is that a few days in this Parliament one seems to be living on Marmot Day, doesn't it? Over and over again the same debates. And not because of the perseverance and insistence of Mr Itxaso – who also – but mainly because this, which is an agreed and debated issue in this House..., for what is obvious is that what is requested and what is agreed in this Parliament, in the end, remains in limbo. Because, as Mr Itxaso said, today we are bringing here again the need to create the register of special employment centres, but it is that a year ago we were discussing this too, and two years ago, too. That's why I was telling you, Marmot Day. The origin of this initiative, of this particular initiative – as Mr Itxaso has pointed out – is that the Basque Observatory for Social Economy indicates, in a report, that there has been an increase in the number of special employment centres. But, of course, it is true that for the creation of these new centres it would be necessary to obtain the qualification by the Administration and its subsequent registration in that register of centres of the Public Service of State Employment, or, where appropriate, in which it is the responsibility of the autonomous administrations, after the verification of compliance with the requirements, and what happens in our case, in Euskadi, is that such a register does not exist. And the reasons given the other day, when the Councillor's inquiry was completed, are that the Basque Government intends to draw up a regulation regulating its creation and operation, a broader framework, and, after that, to approve the decree; that, according to him, it is not easy or that it takes little time (and, of course, that has become clear to us, Mr Toña, that it has not taken very long). And he also told us that it must be part of a more general framework. The truth is, one thought that the Basques were in the vanguard, that we were one of the smartest in the class. But if we have to judge by the actions of our Government in this and other matters, then we see that we are not, that we are not the smartest in the class. Because the truth is that it will be very complicated – I do not say no, Mr. Counsellor – but it is that other communities, as Mr.Itxaso has said, have had it for a long time, for a long time. Then, it seems, the difficulties of drafting this decree have been able to save them much better than we have. And we, in the meantime, have no record, and what we do is continue to debate about that record of the special employment centres and the decree that has to regulate them. And, as I was saying, you must have an extreme difficulty. I believe that the Constitution took less time to become than this decree. The competition was transferred to Lanbide in 2010, and, in theory, there was already a draft in 2014. In October 2015 this theme, which was carried by Mr.Aiartza... He said the time of the decree was near. And – I thought Mr. Aiartza was going to take it, but if not, I'll tell you the same thing – it's that, one of two: or he didn't see the chapter of Sesame Barrio close and far, or the concept close that the nationalists have, so it's quite different from what the rest of us have. Because from October to now, and we still have no decree, so, close... close is not. Because we have been drafting the decree for six years, and in case the representatives of the Basque Nationalist Party tell me about the previous government, then I will say that it is true that the previous government was able to do so, but it is that you have been doing it longer than the previous government. It's been almost four years, it's June 2016, and the decree still doesn't see the light. A whole legislature has been thrown out and, in a whole legislature, we have been unable to draw this decree. The other day we were criticized and held accountable for the delay that might occur in the pending legislative proceedings, because we requested many appearances. And you? For as far as Mr. Toña is concerned, who is going to be consulted by this decree, even the armed master has been consulted, even the armed master... And to us the consultations that have taken place may seem good to us. The participation of trade unions, business representatives, associations and the third sector can be welcomed, because they can make many contributions that will undoubtedly enrich the text. What happens is that I think they can be done in less time. Because, of course, after all these contributions and consultations, there are the previous reports, and the last is that of the ECO, because it seems that one of the pending reports is the report of the economic control body. The truth is that one wonders: is it so difficult to evacuate these consultations? Is it so much time to prepare these reports? And what we have to say in this respect is what we have said on other occasions that has been discussed: more important than having the powers is to know how to exercise the powers. Every time someone comes up to this rostrum, someone from the Basque Nationalist Party, to present an initiative or to present an amendment, taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid or the Ibaizábal via Galdácano – you take the hydrographic reference you like best – you demand more skills and a new status, and you are in the right to do so, as it could not be otherwise. But, in this Parliament, the Basques in what we are in are entitled to demand that you apply them to the exercise of the powers that you do have and that you do not apply well. Because no, they're not doing it right, and a clear sign of it is this decree. But there is more, because when it comes to demanding this government is the first, but when it comes to doing it, we are in the queue. And there is nothing more to see than the enormous legislative output that this government has sent to this Parliament. There is nothing more to see than the failure of active employment policies with its share of intermediation. There is nothing more to see about Lanbide, whose failure is recognized by the Deputy Employment Adviser himself. There is nothing more to see – as I said – this matter which is a sample button, which we have been asking for for for years in this House and we are still the same as at first. And how are we going to expect Lanbide to work well, if a decree that other communities have – as I said on another occasion – since the last century, we still don't have it here, because it seems that making it is like the birth of the mountains, which never arrives. Yesterday we talked about the importance of the employment of persons with disabilities as an instrument of integration, protected employment and regular employment, the role of special employment centres in achieving these objectives, both in achieving that protected employment and in carrying out the transition to regular employment; but for this it is important that, in addition to the special employment centres that are carrying out a great deal of work, there are new special employment centres, which cannot be established if the register does not exist, and in the end, the tail bites. Let's see if this time, and before the end of the legislature, we all get the birth of the mountains to finally see the light.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u4	Thank you, Miss Llanos. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Zulaika, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u5	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. As the speakers have said, we have at least twice spoken of the purpose of the initiative we are discussing today in the whole gatherings. And during these two periods, the principal claim has been accepted, to create a census of special employment centers. It's been two years since this initiative has been approved, but it hasn't been done yet. Mr. Toña answered in the final interpelation that the process of creating a census of special employment centers is now in progress, that they are already in the course of the contributions of the agents who work functionably, so we hope at last to create that census. Men with functional differences have great difficulties in finding a employment; therefore we think that all the measures possible from the profession must be set to work, considering all the possibilities, and considering the characteristics of each person, to choose the best opportunity. Collecting EH thinks it takes steps to go to normal employment. But we know that the area of functional multiplicity is extremely complex, that there are several sorts and degrees, and that the same choice is not the best for all, and custom courses are necessary. Even yesterday, we discussed it at the Enplex Committee, the initiative of the EH Collect. And special employment centers are a modality that is within a protected job, mostly the entities of the social economy, the entities that place people in the centre of the system. We know the difficulty of starting such projects, especially those which are founded on social initiation, who place people and social ends above capital, who care for the dignity of men. And that's important, because we've known some cases where workers are close to slavery, including the sodats they've collected, and that's always something to be accused of. In fact, if these special employment centers have been received from the Administration to maintain such employments. But, excepted, we think that such projects from the profession ought also to be assisted and encouraged by them, and not, as it is repeated, to hinder them. Mr. Toña, when he was an interpreter on this subject, said: "These wants are not necessarily registered in the market." I understand, therefore, from his own words, that there will be no inconvenience from the Administration of the new projects, such as the other special employment centres, when soliciting subservatives from the profession to maintain the employment of these entities; or, for example, from the collections reserved to those entities, to present themselves in the same manner with the choice of others. So that makes us feel more comfortable. And, well, today, it's as if the demand for a census of special employment centers would come out with one mouth, or for a quarter of an hour, or with a major majority. We hope, at any rate, that the process of making a decree is over immediately and that the census should begin, so that all the measures which the people who have a functionary débertsity may be united in an integrated form. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Silence, please, you can hear everything from here. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u7	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. We didn't file any corrections on the census of the special numbers, because we agreed to do what's required, and because the company's doing what the company wants to do. As the Chief of Toyas told you on the interjection, Mr. Ichaso, the rule of the record of special employment centers is in the heart of fun. It is therefore time to remain calm, as it is required in your enterprise, for it will soon be brought to the legislature as soon as it is finished. We know that oppositions are to be introduced, but now, after having given an explanation from the head of the department, we do not find much sense in this motive, for you clearly explained that the Government has done its work and that the rule is in its transmitation. Only three important clarifications, Mr Itxaso: Firstly, it is not necessary to register the special employment centres in order for them to operate, despite the many occasions on which you referred, both on the day of the inquiry and today, with regard to this need. Secondly, the data you mentioned on the day of the inquiry are those of the Basque Observatory of Social Economy. And it is not that the Basque Government or the group supporting it do not value the objectivity of the data in their reports; quite the contrary. What the adviser explained, and today we reiterate, is that the data from these reports, the OVES data, refer solely and exclusively to special employment centres within the social economy, where there are special employment centres in many other areas. And thirdly, it was intended to take advantage, as the adviser explained, of the time when the regulations of the registration of special employment centres were developed to carry out a comprehensive study, a study showing an updated picture of the employment of persons with disabilities, possibilities and opportunities of this group. And we share with the Government this position, more ambitious than the one taken in its initiative with regard to the creation of the single and exclusive register. We insist that this decree is in the process of processing the mandatory reports of the administration; in particular, today the report of legality and that of the ESC (the Economic and Social Council) is missing, so that it can be adopted in the Governing Council. And, as you request, it will be as soon as possible. Finally, we want to highlight the work of accompanying the third sector, which Lanbide is also doing in this area. And I must say, with regard to the interventions of the previous spokesmen, that it has used a little to review the legislature, to talk about non-compliances, delays of the government... The truth, Mrs Llanos, is that it is surprising that you are talking about delays, when we have organic laws in the State, such as that of the Statute, which has not yet been fulfilled since the year 79. So, surprised to hear this from your mouth. I want to keep to the positive, and today's initiative was to urge the government to bring as soon as possible the decree regulating the registration of special employment centres, which, as the day has become clear and as it is clear today, is at its final stage and will be brought to this Parliament, will be approved by the Governing Council before the end of the parliamentary term. So, let's keep that. It is good that the election campaign starts today at 12 o'clock and that we have to take advantage to give it here and there, but until 12 o'clock it does not start, and today we are going to focus on the point that belongs to us. And that decree will come to this House before the end of this legislature. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answers, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u9	Well, no... The truth is that the reason for bringing this matter up once again has not, of course, been the electoral campaign, because this issue has been dealt with many times, but it has been precisely the contradiction of package in what the counselor said, which I have read in the Journal of Sessions and which you have ratified. But, more importantly, he said that there are special employment centres that can be part of the social economy and others that are not. Well, I'm going to read article 5 of Law 5/2011 on Social Economy, where it says that "Cooperatives, mutual societies, etc., insertion companies, special employment centres, brotherhoods...". In other words, by legal definition, special employment centres are all part of the social economy. But for them to be considered this way their qualification is required, and the qualification only gives the registration. And, after the qualification that homologates them as such, the inscription is produced. That is also, as I say, in Royal Decree 2273/1985 of the Regulation of Special Employment Centres, which develops the law. It is that, well, we understand that in this same matter would be desirable greater quotas of self-government – I do not discuss it – but that at this point in labor legislation we do not have competence, not even of development, only of execution, of execution... And we see that it doesn't run, it doesn't run. And these explanations you, Mrs Arregi, like those given by the government, seem contradictory to us. Because, if the law establishes that it is an essential requirement and imperative, it seems to us, in the end, to speak of galgos and punchos, whether or not it can be. It is that there are initiatives that are waiting for it to be created, the registration is established in order to be able to operate; because without that qualification, without that qualification, they can be called in any way less special employment centres, because the law and all the regulations that accompany it define what are the special employment centres and what is the procedure that is required for them to be so considered. So, it's not a whim, it's not campaign fruit, it's nothing like that. We understand that there is a contradiction there, which arises in addition to some unknown explanation, because this delay cannot be explained only in ineptitude (there is not so much as to imply delay). We understand that there must be other reasons, but reasons that are not known, because those that have been given, which are the ones that I have reproduced, are totally contradictory, and I do not believe that the Government can make those errors of package, unless it really has some intention or motivation which, for whatever reasons, is therefore not explicit. But we, who need to speak with clarity and transparency, demand once again that this happy record be created so that at least we can put an end to this controversy once and for all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u11	Yes, thank you again, Madam President. Well, the first thing is to acknowledge – as I said in my first speech – that, of course, the work that the special employment centres that already exist are doing is important and good work. But that does not mean, and it must not be a hindrance so that, if there are other initiatives, those initiatives can also arise. I think in this, the more, the better... The more, the better. It is true, as Mr Itxaso says, that there is a law that requires as a requirement to be registered as a special employment centre. From the Basque Government it is said that no. Well, then, I publicly, from here, urge all those initiatives that you have to contact Lanbide to start operating immediately. Because if such registration is not necessary, then they can operate directly, they can go to aid exactly as the centres that already exist, they can carry out the same initiatives as those that already exist. I therefore urge you to do so here, because it also seems that it has been recognized by the Government, by the group supporting the Government, that these initiatives can operate perfectly. So let them ask, let them contact Lanbide, to start now; because, in theory, registration is not necessary. And then, I just don't know what hidden reasons there may be for not wanting to create the record. So, as I fail to understand those hidden reasons that there may be for not creating the register, I can only blame it on one thing, and it is to the slowness of this Basque Government, to the ineptitude of this Basque Government. Because I do not understand that, something that has been done much faster in other autonomous communities, here it has not been possible to do. Because the first question that was asked about this matter was Mr. Aburto, who has been mayor for a year in Bilbao, who left Lanbide as he left, without fulfilling this, who had to fulfill it. Then another question was made to Mr. Toña; we continued without a decree. And fifteen days ago another interpellation was made, and the decree before was near, now is as soon as possible. Well, I don't know if you, Mrs Arregi, have seen the before and after Sesame Barrio. And also as soon as possible we have the same concepts, because now it seems that two reports are missing. And he said that we are in an election campaign, that this is taken out or that criticism is made by an election campaign. No, the reviews come out on their own. What is electoral is the measure that the Bizkaia Diputation announced yesterday, about the flat rate of the highways, that it will not start until next year but is announced just one day before the start of the electoral campaign. I mean, we can all talk about electoralism. And you say we take advantage of it to make the criticisms. If you yourself speak of non-compliance with the Statute, if every time you go up here... - No, no, no, You yourself have just made it clear that every time a nationalist goes up to this rostrum, it is to claim untransferred competences. But, look – I told you last time – you were asking for active employment policies, and it had to be a socialist government that, in the end, accepted that transfer, because you did not want to accept it. They accepted it; they found it already accepted by the Socialist Party government. And have the active employment policies regulated by you really improved? No, no. And the truth is, there's nothing more to see about Lanbide's brokerage rates and how Lanbide works. I have told you, even the Deputy Counsellor himself acknowledges that it is not an instrument for obtaining a job. Then – as I say – you are in full right to claim, but the rest of us are in full right to demand that the important thing is to have competence, but much more important is to know how to exercise it. And these four years you have been the champions of inefficiency in the management of the competences you have conferred. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u12	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Zulaika must not speak. Eubertarians, Mrs. Argrei, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u13	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. And very briefly. We want to claim the good work done by the special employment centres, which exist. And they do exist, although there is no record; therefore, they are working. We therefore reiterate that there is no need for such a register. But don't worry, Mr Itxaso, that this decree is finalizing its proceedings and will be adopted by the Governing Council before the end of this term. And that's what today's initiative is all about. And I did not say that this subject should be brought here in an election campaign, Mrs Llanos. What I have said is that you are taking advantage that today at 12 o'clock the electoral campaign begins to talk about the inefficiency of this government, the paralysis, etc., the runrun and the mantra that have been repeating in this last season and that now, as the electoral campaign is approaching today, what better to take advantage of, than if Lanbide, than if Lanbide's intermediation... Look, Lanbide's intermediation is far above the intermediation carried out by the rest of the state's public employment services and at European level, when competition came here in 2010. In six years it has been far above the state average. That's a good exercise of competencies. And don't worry, that in all that we have jurisdiction, we exercise them much better than in the rest of the state. There's Osakidetza, there's education, and so on. And don't worry, Lanbide will also continue to improve and it will be much better than in the state, because it is shown that when the powers are exercised here, things work much better than in the rest of the state. Let us keep in mind that this register of special employment centres will be brought before the end of the parliamentary term, which is what we are talking about in today's initiative. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mr. Ichaso Gonz's original text of M. González's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u15	So, unanimously, the original text of the motion. Second point on the subject list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the Leire Pinedon Bustamane EH Collector, about the measures to be taken before the taxation of 2016. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word, in order to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u16	Good morning. Thank you, ma'am. All day long. With this motion, which we are engaged to discuss today, we bring the subject of our party from February to the House of Investigation. I mean that the tax collections made for 2016 are bad, and that the tax collections of monthly revenue are more and more apparent by the amount of revenues of the budget, and that the tax policy in force does not give them any more, and therefore the government must take measures in front of all this. In February, when we learned the final collection data for the 2015 financial year, when we learned that this government had closed the year with 277 million euros less revenue per collection, even though they had made a review in October on the closure forecasts, we already asked lehendakari about the most necessary change in fiscal policy. The answer – in this case, from Councillor Gatzagaetxebarria – was basically that it was necessary to give time to the tax reform that the PNV and the Socialist Party had signed in 2013. On March, when we had the first tax reviews in 2016, our concerns were reinforced. It was two months' data, too, we knew it, but the signs were not at all positive. The increase of the annual revenue, the goal of growth, being 7%, was only the growth of 1,8% during February. And the worst of all: it was behind these facts again, as usual, that growth was in the taxes above people and on consumption. Martxoan bertan, lehendakaria interpelatu genuine jakin nahi genuelako zein neurri aurreikusten zituen Gobernuak zerga-bilketa ez betetzearen aurrean. As early as March, we urge this government to explain what measures it planned to take in the face of the more than presumptive reduction in revenue for the 2016 financial year, due to the non-compliance of the forecasts in the collection. But, once again, Councillor Gatzagaetxebarria, as it could not be otherwise, merely repeated the arguments he had already used to explain the bad collection data for the 2015 exercise and to tell us to wait, which was still a long way ahead. Today we are in June, almost half a year ago, and the dates of the collection between April do not announce the right road. We all know the data, but I think they're the ones we need to talk about. By 2016, 7% of the Euscal financial growth was predicted, but the April data shows its descent to 0.3%, i.e. the data is getting worse this year. And the gravest thing: the land which is to take more than 50% of the whole levy has been at the rate of 2,8% down. Thus the Government continues to wait, as usual, and meanwhile the search operations give us more and more hideous images. In summary, the collection data, as of April, are that, of the more than 880 million euros of increase they anticipated for the financial year 2016, in four months it is not only that they have not increased, but that they have a decrease of 11 million euros. Poor balance, look where you look. This is the case, and even the great man with the power of Biscay has said that the expenses must be restored, and consequently that the expenses which may be expected must wait. On the other hand, the institution that controls 70% of the collection tells us that we have to wait. He tells us that we must wait over and over again, and that we must wait until the date of June and July comes. I am curious that two institutions governed by the same party, two institutions that have been using the same argument to try to explain the imbalance in tax collection, instead, when facing the problem, choose different positions. Yes, I know you are going to tell me that the two of you are putting on the table the principle of prudence; but, ladies and gentlemen, that is taken for granted in economic management. The point is that, while one is already warning that there will be works that will remain in the tinter, another – in this case, the Basque Government – continues with the mantra of waiting, of giving time to the tax reform... Is it that political times are different in the two administrations? Maybe that's what's going on. The truth is that this has been a top of this government, to wait. They've been waiting for the whole legislature, and I've told them on several occasions over these four years... but it's that every day that happens, every day, it's more obvious that they keep waiting. And the closures of the budget of 2015 made it clear that it didn't run more than 650 million euros. This took place in various departments, but especially in the parts of development and economic development. And this necessarily reflects rightly in the data. As regards inquiry, development, and innovation, a little data is to be found: In 2012, in the year of the legislature, 2% of the raw internal crime was directed thither at 2015. 90% of the year. I don't think there's much more to say. Do we really think this government will encourage the economic development of this country? We don't see him at all. We have always proclaimed that in the beauties of well-being that we do not at all admit of a diminution, and that it requires money to strengthen those policies, and that there is need for more money. But we also understand that politics which are essential to the development of our economy must be made from the government, from the public sector. The government has to be more leader, the government has to mark the road. Nevertheless, in this legislation it has been evident that this government has had great deficiencies in this respect, as we can see in the imperfections of the budget. Hori horrella izan bada 2015ean, zerga-bilketatik 277 million gutxiago jaso dituenean Jaurlaritzak, zer gertatuko da aurten, 2016an, egora gero eta okerragoa antzematen denean? What is this government going to do? What is this government going to do about the more than obvious reduction in tax revenues? From the groups that support the economic policy of the Government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party, I know what they are going to tell me, what Lehendakari said last Friday in this Chamber: "We are not going to cut the pillars of the Basque model of social protection: health, education and the fight against exclusion. We will maintain quality in public services essential for citizenship." Look, as a heading phrase, it's fine, but that's it. It won't last any longer. Leaving aside that, since EH Bildu, these budgets, like all those in this legislature, do have cuts in basic welfare policies, what is this government going to do? Delaying investments? Slowing expenses? Paralyze projects? What orders are you going to give to your departments? It's obvious to us that the problem is serious. The tax-gathering does not fulfil the intended designs, but the limits of the established tax policy are more and more apparent. The policy of taxing the forces is not guaranteed to the extent of independent well-being; it does not guarantee the basis which the public policy requires to support the development of our economy. This is by no means a tax model which has the value of being the budgets that answer social conditions, and of ending them by degrees. Seeing the collecting data, and seeing the economic data that this government repeats over and over, it is obvious that this system of taxation is filled with gaps, and that it does not press where it is to be placed: Capital in non-productive and enpresions. And alongside fiscal policy, we cannot forget the policy of borrowing and managing the budget deficit. It is clear that the vision of the use of these tools by the Government and the two parties that support its economic policy is diametrically different from that which we defend from Euskal Herria Bildu. Hiding to comply with European governance rules, they have made it their management task to comply with the deficit and debt limits, which respond to State problems and do not respond to the socio-economic reality of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Now, there they are again waiting, always waiting, waiting to see what the Madrid Government is doing with the extension of the deadline for the fulfilment of the deficit, with the flexibility in the objective of the deficit granted to it from Europe. Once again, waiting to see if the rabbit comes out of the joke. Bath hour ez of the aura aura Egyptian modua. Badaude tresnak, Gobernu honek eta aldundiek badituzte tresnak egoera honi buelta emateko. Eta hori da guk gaur hemen eskatzen duguna, lanean jar daitezela. Eta Jaurlaritzari beraziki eskatzen diogo ez dezala murrizketa gehigarrik egin; beraziki, garapen eta suspertze ekonomikoko ataletan, haiek baitira 2015ean ez-exekuzioen bidez murrizketa gehigarri gehien jasan izan dituzten atalak. We know that this legislation is about to end, and that there is not much left; but in the time that remains, it would be well for the Government to take the leadership for once; It would be good for once if this government made people target them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing the corrections, representative of the Basque Potula Group, Lord Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President. To make it clear, we disagree with Bildu – I say this so that it is clear; because we also agree on many of the things that have been said, but I say this so that it is clear that we disagree with Bildu – in the deficit. Bildu argues that it is good, and that is why the criteria for Europe and the stability of the euro should not be met, because they consider that having more deficits is good (i.e. in debt more is good), and we think the opposite. We would prefer not to owe anything to anyone, we would prefer to have surplus, and, when the times of weak cows come, instead of throwing out the debt, pulling out the surpluses of previous exercises, which the Basque Government did in other times. And I say in other times when, casually, when the forecasts of collection were made at the Basque Finance Council, they called it prudent criterion, basically the Basque Nationalist Party. And then the following happened: the actual collection was really greater than expected, and then the Basque Government had in the last quarter of the year, let's say, about EUR 100, 200 or 300 million more to spend or invest in that budget year outside Parliament's control. However, it seems that lately the PNV is always wrong in the Basque Finance Council, which I am surprised at, because before it was never wrong and, being the same, it seems that at least what has changed is the approach given to those forecasts. And so, if the approach was to be rigorous, or to be strict enough not to commit budget overruns, it now seems that we are in the opposite situation, and then we make up for it with a word that our Economic Adviser discovered, which is this from budget failure, which until this parliamentary term we had not heard in this Parliament, at least in the time that I have been. The Basque Government, the PNV, the outlaws... I say the PNV because all the institutions are of the Basque Nationalist Party. Interestingly, when there were some more different, then, it seems to be more accurate, but the technicians, as far as I know, are exactly the same. The last legislature seemed to be more successful when there were three different parliaments and, in the end, these things did not happen. These things didn't happen. But what can we talk about? We can talk about a failure, which is a pact Basque Nationalist Party-Socialist Party, a failure of this legislature that began with a rise in taxes, by which the tale of milk was made, of plans that were to be financed. I don't know how many plans this government has brought, four or five: they were going to be financed with the highest income that was going to be obtained from that tax reform and they were going to be financed with the highest income that we were going to get from tax fraud. With those two. I only know that in 2015, as this tax reform was already in force, they did not come to collect..., they collected 1 billion euros less than in 2007, 1 billion euros less... That the forecast for this year was to reach 13 billion euros, that is to say 700 million less (the forecast, eh!, 700 less than in 2007), despite the rise in taxes and despite all that has increased the fight against tax fraud, etc., etc., etc. And now what do we know? Well, we're not going to get to this 13,000 we had planned, which meant an increase of 7%. Moreover, to date we are in negative, at less than 1%. And what's this supposed to mean? And the same thing happened last year. And, as the liquidation has just come, the government's forecast of closure on 31 December 2015, so, we have the data. And what have you done for the Basque Government? Well, as has been said, more or less, EUR 680 million of those provided for in the budget, of those provided for in the budget... And where have we lost that collection or that income? So, 300 million of the deputies, because the planned collection has not been achieved; 220 million of the non-implementation of the AVE, of the section of the Basque Government, of the Guipuzcoan section. Which does not stop having its grace, when you have spent four years here giving us the knack that the government of Mariano Rajoy, despite the crisis, had to invest and meet all the deadlines and so on. Look, you've left EUR 220 million unexecuted, according to your budget. And another interesting item is the EUR 40 million that we are not going to receive from the European Union and that we had planned to receive. Casually, what has this resulted in? And I say casually because it's not casual. What has it translated into? In fact, the investment forecast of the Basque Government, which was EUR 1.1 billion, has been set at EUR 700 million. What does this mean? So, that the Basque Government has stopped investing more than 400 million euros and in what has the Basque Government stopped investing those 400 million euros? So, basically in two departments: in the environment, minus 270 million, and in economic development and competitiveness, minus 110 million. Man, and, curiously, less than 50 million in Education, but this is in the works he had planned to do in primary and secondary schools; that is, in investments. This is what we have stopped investing in. And what has it been spent on, or what hasn't it been done? There's a little programmer who can look at it, it's called the Innovation Fund, program 54/14: updated budget, 22 million; executed, 10. Executed 10 to pay from previous years, because in what had to have come out this year, the Emaitek 2015, of 12 million, zero, zero. And so we could talk about the extraordinary programme of granting public guarantees for financing companies, which goes from 82 million to 62 million; of the Y I have already talked about...; of the charges to Eusko Trenbideak, which goes from 12 million to 7 million; of the Innovation Fund, which goes in half; of Industrial Development and Support to Entrepreneurs, from 76 million to 41 million... And with this, what do I mean? I mean, imagine that this government, during 2015 – because the non-execution it has done was basically this – would have really invested this money, would have executed those games. That, in job growth, what was it going to...?, how much could it translate into? I think we'd have done a lot better. I think there would have been fewer stops. And what are we looking at? What we have been denouncing since the beginning, for three years, is that this government does not contribute anything to job creation. We are going to tow what is being done in Spain, what measures are being taken in Spain. Spain climbs to 0.8? Well, we're up to 0.7 or 0.8. Spain climbs to 3? Well, we're gonna go to the trailer. Why? Because we don't bring anything. Where is the differential in the Basque Country with Spain in GDP growth or in employment? Nothing. The same curve, the same curve, literal. What has been the contribution of this Basque Government, in this parliamentary term that is ending, in that? Well, we have to say that unfortunately zero, little or nothing. It has been an absolute failure in what people care about, which is the creation of stable and quality jobs, here. And we, therefore, are asking that this year, which we are seeing is going to happen the same as last year, the Basque Government does not do the same and it does support, if it does support those items, those investments. When we talk here about the long-term unemployed – who are usually not, who are no longer more than fifty years old – we must say that there are many who come from the construction sector and that it is practically impossible to put them back anywhere else. But if all the investments where these people could work are paralyzed, diminished or removed, then it is clear that we are not helping in any way...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u19	Go back to the end of the... Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maneryio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u20	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Although the environment is somewhat pacified and perhaps many of us, and especially of you, are already thinking of the forthcoming general elections, I think, of course, that this is an extremely important matter and that it would deserve a strong response from the opposition of this Parliament to the Basque Government that we are suffering from. Because, in fact, only two people have been involved at the moment in this debate, but many very relevant issues have already been raised. Many very important things have been said – almost all certain things – and I think that the only thing that would be missing would be to sign a compromise amendment that clearly states that the behaviour of this government in relation to everything that has to do with budgets, with budget failures, with revenue estimates, is something very reprehensible, and I hope that we can come to that compromise to make it clear and that this very important debate does not go unnoticed, because we are faced with a pile of lies and falsehoods. Budgets are drawn up, debated in this House, approved – at least by two of the groups that we represent or that have representation – and then not met. Budgets are presented, amended, worked, and then we see how they are actually not being implemented. False or false budget estimates. Estimates of non-compliance or non-compliance. Budgetary inefficiencies involving cuts in areas of extraordinary importance for economic growth, job creation and the subsequent increase in tax revenues, which would entail strengthening the welfare state. Therefore, these are very important matters, possibly the most important thing that we have in our hands: what we do with our public money, how we get more revenue and what we allocate that revenue to. That is why I say that I hope that this government, after this debate, will finally receive the political stalemate that I believe it deserves. Last week I was giving some thoughts to the lehendakari, because I was asking him about what we are discussing, about the collapse of the tax collection in Euskadi, and I was saying that the tax collection of the first quarter has a negative sign, although Gipuzkoa's revenues have grown by 8.2% from January to April, in Álava they have fallen by 4.1% and in Bizkaia by 2.8%. With this data, it would be impossible to comply with the budgetary estimates of revenue that were established by an increase of 7 %, so both the outlaws and the Basque Government will have to take steps to square the accounts. He said that, beyond the erroneous estimates made at the time and the political responsibilities which they must demand, it is time that, in this case, the lehendakari explained at parliamentary level what measures he was going to take to square the budgets and what are going to be the items to be reduced. From a progressive point of view, he said, we suggest from UPyD that the items involving public services, attention to the most vulnerable, social spending and productive investments should be kept out of any kind of cut-off, but that is not what this Government, or other governments whose decisions affect us, have done in the past. Therefore, I concluded that the lehendakari must clarify it as soon as possible, and that is the question that a servant asked the lehendakari: what are the decisions that the Basque Government is going to make, following the tax collapse in Euskadi during the first quarter of the year? And, logically, taking into account what can happen between now and 31 December. The lehendakari responded in a similar way to how it responded days ago and that it was collected in a medium of communication. According to the lehendakari, it is a question of investing rigorously in the important, as if this should not be done in all circumstances, whether or not there is a lower collection. In other words, it came to recognize that this has not been done in the past, and now, taking into account the low collection rate, it is a question of investing rigorously in the important. I think we should look at a number of things. What's happened, and who's responsible? The Basque Finance Council, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, which approved these budgets? Who made this income estimate? On what basis did the Basque Finance Council and the political groups that finally supported the draft budgets make this estimate of revenue? And, therefore, demanding political responsibilities for all those political leaders who failed in their estimates, either because they failed, or because they knew that what they were proposing was impossible to fulfill. And, in that sense, a professor of finance recently argued and explained that no data supported increasing collection in Euskadi by 7%. But it is something that within the Basque Finance Council, and applauded by other political groups, and especially by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, was taken for granted. This is not being done, and now, therefore, it is up to us to decide what is going to be done, what decisions are going to be made in the light of the data we already have and the more than foreseeable non-compliance with the revenue budget and the collection. Decisions to be taken for the short term and decisions to be taken for the medium or long term. And that is what we have tried to pick up in our whole amendment. We can share what EH Bildu is proposing in his original motion; we can share what other groups are proposing in their amendments. We have tried to expand, perhaps, the things that should be done, as well as the political responsibilities that should be demanded. And so, what we propose is that this Parliament demand that the Basque Government not push for new social cuts throughout 2016, and therefore safeguard the state of welfare, education, health, social benefits, productive investments, R & D+i and all the necessary budget lines to achieve better well-being, more economic development, more social justice and more decent, stable and quality job creation. And we also want this Parliament to require the Government to push forward all the reforms and measures that are necessary to reduce the unproductive expenditure that continues to exist in Euskadi, as a result of its oversized institutional framework, the plethora of public and semi-public bodies whose existence is not justified, as well as the unnecessary expenditure that responds to purely sectarian or partisan interests. We also propose that this Parliament urge the Government, the outlaws and the Committee on Combating Fiscal Fraud to step up efforts to combat tax fraud and evasion, a scourge which seriously undermines the economic development of Euskadi and the indispensable social policies. Finally, we propose that this Parliament also urge the Basque Finance Council to properly calculate and justify the budget revenue forecast it makes annually. From the experience I have in this Parliament, the Basque Finance Council is never right in relation to the budgetary revenue for the following financial year. This is something that we have almost always reiterated, in all the debates on budgets: it never works; it always raises more revenue than it subsequently comes to fruition, and this is extraordinarily serious. Because, finally, we are discussing some budgets thinking that they are going to be those that are finally being implemented, and we are checking every year that it is not finally those budgets that are being implemented, but that they also contain new cuts, adjustments or budget failures. In short, therefore, there are many things. I think there are many political leaders here: the Basque Finance Council, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party, which approved these budgets. In addition, the Basque Government must be required to take a series of measures from now on, so that there is no cut in all that has to do with the welfare state, productive investments, R & D & I and all that creates wealth, creates employment and, therefore, will create, in the future more or less immediately, new income. This is what I think we should share with a majority of groups. Having said that, I think it is an extremely important matter; I would like to see the Basque Government not go unnoticed and finally receive a strong response from the opposition groups for the bad work that has been done in recent months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u21	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists, Mr Priceeton, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u22	President, ladies and gentlemen. I say that the first problem that Basque policy has at the moment, which this Parliament has, which has the Basque Government, which has the three outlaws, which have the municipalities and which has all the citizenship represented in these institutions, is the collection. The first problem, the most serious problem that currently exists in the Basque Country, is the evolution of the collection. The problem is whether we use the institutions, among them today, to conclude that this downward trend in collection is irreversible and, therefore, what we can adapt to in political activity is exclusively criticism, or whether we consider that it is reversible, that it must be reversible and that, in any case, politics is to make it reversible. And the Socialist Party, in its style of political commitment to citizens, in its style of political commitment to the functioning of institutions and public policies being done with a social character, with a character of equality, with a character of justice, what we want is to provide solutions and what we want is to provide mechanisms for the functioning of politics to make this reversible. To me, some interventions reminded me of that phrase of Groucho Marx, when he said that "I was so interested, so busy doing the criticism, that I forgot to read the book". And I have seen too much criticism and lack of proposals. And we want to work there; that's why we questioned the lehendakari a few days ago, that's why we questioned the lehendakari a few months ago and that's why we continue to work in that direction. At the moment, not only is collection being reduced in the Basque Country, not only are many investments and many policies and infrastructures at stake, not only municipal financing and foral financing are at stake, but it is also within a rather complicated economic trend loop. Some decisions have already been made at international level, warnings have already been made at international level from the OECD to the European Central Bank; it is already being warned that 2016 will end worse than expected, that 2017 points badly, and already the most adventurous start to talk about 2018; more money has already been put back and for longer in circulation for investment in interest-free loans; already there is talk of rescuing companies' debt so that they can continue to function. This is in international politics, and therefore there are too many indicators that invite us to think that something we will have to do from self-government, from our tools, from the possibilities we have in the Basque Country to make policy. We cannot solve the national and international level – of course, much less the plan that goes beyond the European continent – but we must do with our tools what can help to make the budgets work, to finally achieve the collection forecasts. And in that work and in that task we are. Self-government allows you to do things. Yesterday, I posted on my blog an article entitled "Alarm with Collection" – that I suggested it for reading to all of you; I think it's interesting, that's why I suggest it – and I was warning, among other things, that we had had time with a university report where, among other things, what is the estimated fraud in the Basque Country. Well, fortunately, and I don't know if by reaction, but, after the publication of this article on the blog, the government hastened to announce that today it would hang the study, that today it would transfer it to Parliament. As far as I know, it has not been transferred, although there are already statements by the Member of the Treasury of Bizkaia, in which he makes an estimate – it seems that he is credited with knowing this tax report – in which he already says that fraud reaches an amount. I'm not going to talk about her, because I prefer to see exactly what the university has said about it, and we'll have time to talk about this. But, indeed, among the possible policies that can be made from self-government, one of them is to set targets in the fight against tax fraud. The Spanish Tax Agency has been doing so since 2007; the Navarre Tax Agency has already incorporated it after a debate in Parliament, in which there was a majority agreement to do so; in Euskadi, after having requested it insistently by our group on several occasions, these objectives of combating tax fraud are still not set today. If it is some billions that are estimated to be tax fraud, it would be reasonable to establish a source of income in the budgets, a target of income in the budgets, as other tax agencies do. Well, that's one of the possible solutions. Consumer incentives can also be made from Basque policy. A more determined action can also be taken from Basque policy by public investment, by the creation of public employment, also by preventing tax evasion from drawing resources that have to be collected by the estates. We can have better and more effective collection. We can facilitate private investments, which are sometimes asleep, because no one finishes making a decision. We can recover collective bargaining and recover wages, and regain consumption capacity. In other words, self-government makes it possible to make policies in the labour field, to make policies in the economic field, to make policies in the field of the fight against tax fraud, to make policies in investment in employment and in investment in public works. And the problem is whether you give up doing these things here or not. Socialists don't give up. The socialists committed themselves in their day to a tax reform, which was opened up to grudging people from all over the world and which still today has detractors, but which, however, was an objective of improving the capacity to make public policies. Socialists have been worrying and occupying and committing themselves to having budgets in the Basque Country, because citizens must be returned their taxes through public policies, social policies, and policies that improve their quality of life. In that compromise we are the socialists. We are in a constructive commitment; we are not interested in criticism for criticism; we are not interested in differentiation for differentiation; we are not interested in having the last beautiful, magical or striking phrase to characterize a situation, but what we are interested in is that this works. And because we are interested in this working, we continue to be committed to ensuring that taxation meets its objectives, and that is why in our amendments, in our total amendment, we have pointed out this, as we continue to be committed to ensuring that budgets meet the objectives that have been set. The Basque Finance Council determined an amount of revenue. We ask, in our amendment, that we make an assessment and a review of the progress of the collection this year, so that that forecast made by the Basque Finance Council is maintained. In other words, we do not give up the Basque Finance Council's forecast. I don't know if others want – some out of criticism, others out of inaction – to give up that reference made by the Basque Finance Council. We do not give up today, because today we are in an attitude of proposing answers and solutions to this problem, of reviewing and responding. We do not give up on the full implementation of the budget, with adequate resources. That is why we have also placed it in the amendment, and it seems that this does not like it either. It seems that it is something too strong to say that this Parliament is ratified in the decisions of the Basque Finance Council and ratified in the majority decisions of this Parliament. Well, that is the essence of our amendment. And I hope that this essence of our amendment has no problem in being revalidated in this debate. Bildu himself, the author of the initiative, comes to say that through debt, or through deficit, the objectives that are essentially on two planes of the economic development of this Government are met. That is, it does not call into question what is being proposed in the budget. What comes to the point is that those objectives are being met. Well, that is the essence of our amendment. An amendment that perfectly should and can be assumed by the Basque Nationalist Party, because what we ask of the Basque Nationalist Party, what we say to it, is that we agree to maintain the objectives of the Basque Finance Council and the budgetary objectives. Bildu does not question it, and I believe that this makes a more than sufficient majority, regardless of whether UPyD also proposed that it was essentially in agreement with some of the amendments; I do not know whether it also referred to ours. Well, I think there's a chance that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u23	You're done, Mr Pricee.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u24	Yeah, now I'm done... ... I believe that there is a chance in this Parliament that we will ratify the objective, the commitment to meet the forecasts of the Basque Finance Council and the agreed budgets, and for that we need a review: white and bottled.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u25	Thank you, Mr Price. Madame Gorospe, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u26	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Pick up, Mrs. Pindo, good morning, and I'll start with what you say. You made a present of it during the interpelation, a test of the answer the chief physician gave you, and you mentioned that we must wait and ask for it. And you said you knew what the argument we are going to use is to defend it: prudence, that we will appeal to this principio de praeducia. And that's what we're talking about because that's how it should be and because the department chief planned you like that. He told you it was still early and that our data was temporary and that it wasn't important, and that it would be better to wait for summer, at least to know more complete data. And he also told you and reminded you of what had happened with the collection for other years during the law. He was telling you how it had been in the beginning of the law, that at that moment, studying the first quarter of data, he had been down, but he had been up at the end of the year. And, on the other hand, how, according to last year, it was quite contrary. On account of the first quarter's data, the rise was 7,5%, and at the end of the year the year was down and the year ended at 4.8%. That's why he told you that we have to wait for that wisdom. You have mentioned various judgments, that we speak of prudence, and speak of superiority from other institutions, and whence this difference is derived from the different principles. Here it has been mentioned, Mr. Rainsford Maniro has said what the President says: "Invertir con rigor en lo signant." And I would say that in some sort of error, as a concept, they are the same thing as a priorides and invertior con rigor's sleeping impalpant. There is, therefore, no difference of criteria between different institutions. You have proposed or asked what this government will do: No, no, no, no, no, no, no... no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And you gave yourself the answer, imagining what the answer would be, and that's the answer, because that's the way the chief physician answered in his interferences, both when you've done it, and when Prinet's done, and on Friday, when Mr. Maneiro passed by, he asked the President. That's the answer. But the thing is, you said what you said to him was that he was supposed to be in love with you. And, in our opinion, it's not una frasa de cabecera, I'm not a pilot. There, behind it, is really a philosophy how we understand popular politics, how we understand popular education. We believe that it is absolutely necessary that we should act wisely, behave with severity, and make it clear. And it is essential to the development of a people to prevent the factors of difference, and these are the most important factors of difference, and this government directs all the money into this, to become a strong public health system. This, the right of health, is absolutely an important factor of difference. To have the ability to advance, to have a powerful education system. In powerful economic situations every one has a chance of advancing; but when the economy is weaker, it is absolutely essential to have a powerful public system of education. To fight against neglect, to be a hard, strong system for social protection. And we have all that. And that doesn't happen everywhere. Here is a basic income, and here is an additional preparation for the housing, where helps are given for people who are in a state of emergency, here is a universal health system, and here the whole education system is reserved for everyone, and the fourth is, one of the most important factors of the difference we have today, a great part of the effort of the fun. That's it. Because we have social justice and a cohesion of society. That's all the effort in my head, and he's made it clear in answer, as well as the president's chief physician, whenever he's answered you. We've got to be rockets, too, Mrs. Pindo. It is of no use to require municipalities by the Town Law, to perform the maintenance of the funds and finances, according to the general regulations, and then to say that here, in your motion, it is necessary, and that the constraints of saddles, which are within our government in Europe. And you and your congressmen and we have agreed to make a law for local elections, and that's what we're asking them to do. So let's be honest and be merry and do what we want to do and ask you to do for us what the organizations in the local room ask you to do. And we must make it clear, here are all the facts, to let the citizens believe in us. And yes, here are all the data: Yeah, well, well, I'm sure the representatives of the M.M.s are very clear about the situation as far as the funding and investments are concerned with the execution. All the data, then. That's what I'm talking about. Those are the criteria that protect our team of legislation. You mentioned the leadership, and if you consider the citizen's opinion, it shows up and over again what's the rating of fun on the public and what the president's rating is from the public. It's obvious they're really leaders. Mr Damborenea, you said that it seems that the PNV has always been wrong lately in the Basque Finance Council and that you have changed your mind about making the forecasts for the following year. No, what has changed – and you know it well – is the economic situation and the behaviour of the economy, and the impact this has on the collection. He says that he is wrong, and it is very curious that you can tell us that, because the modification of the tax system in Spain has caused a break of about 4 billion euros. Has that been wrong, as you say "wrong" – in quotes , or has it been a miscalculation intentionally? It is curious that you mean that the Basque Finance Council is wrong, when the breach of Spain's 2015 deficit target was expected to be 4,2 %, and the real one to be 5,1 %, and therefore it is likely that there will be a penalty in July. And Brussels has given them the gift of postponing it to July, so that it is not before the elections. These are the real facts of what has happened with the People's Party: are they wrong, or is it that the economic situation has changed and the behavior of the collection in some cases is changing? Mr. Maneiro, we're not talking about false estimates. They're not fake estimates. The Basque Finance Council does what it does in October are forecasts for the subsequent financial year on the basis of data from the previous financial year. They're forecasts. And branding them and classifying them as false estimates is not being honest in the assessment of what is being done. These are forecasts based, for example, on concepts such as August's collection of the previous year, the state's forecast of VAT collection, the IRPF's estimates on the basis of the settlement of the previous year or the forecast of the evolution of the gross domestic product. And, Mr. Prieto, the problem is the collection...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u27	Mrs. Gorospe, get finished.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u28	Yes, briefly. The problem is the collection, you said. That is why it was raised at the beginning of the legislature and we agreed on a tax reform, which was also supported by the People's Party, which, at the end, when we have the data from this expired exercise, it is necessary to evaluate and adopt measures in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u30	Thank you, ma'am, again. The truth is that when I tabled this motion and I knew that it was coming to debate today, after the last data, I expected more from some groups. Mr Prieto, the development of collection is the most serious problem facing the Autonomous Community, and the PSE, in its style of compromise, wants to provide solutions. It has seen too much criticism in previous interventions and lack of proposals. You know, as well as I do, that there have been proposals from this group; you know that. We have put proposals on the table and we have also put proposals to the Socialist Party. But what surprises me most is Mr Prieto's speech today, which has been round, very much in his style, compared to Mr Prieto's speech here on Friday. Today it comes to me, in your amendment and in all your speech, that you want to review the evolution of the collection in order to take measures to achieve the forecasts made by the Basque Finance Council, and just four days ago you came here to say that "the collection is falling and what is happening is that we have to review all the fiscal policy, because it is failing the fiscal policy". And that's how all the media picked it up. I have it here: "Lehendakari advises prudence in the face of the collapse of the collection, while the PSE, partner outside, asks to review the entire fiscal policy"; "The PSE suggests to the PNV a new tax policy in the face of the great fall of the collection". What happened from Friday to here, Mr. Prieto? Because today you have come here, txintxo-txintxo, to tell us that you do not give up the forecasts made by the Finance Council, do not give up that the budget is fulfilled in its entirety. What happened? Doesn't tax policy need to be changed anymore? It's not this government anymore... like you said? You say that social policies are armored and guaranteed; that is not true. "I see you – for the government – dubious, I see you wanting to buy time; I see you wanting to cover up the reality of the collection with motivations and reasons that have no political validity." Mr. Prieto, you said that on Friday here, and now it comes to me with "reviewing evolution", "taking some measures"... But what measures! If what you're telling me, in the end, it's bread for today and hunger for tomorrow! That you committed to tax reform, which still has detractors – yes, we, from the zero minute we told you, and time is giving us reason – because that tax reform was a filfa, and it doesn't, it doesn't, and you know it, you know it perfectly, because on Friday you asked for a new fiscal policy, but today that doesn't seem to be there. That does not renounce that the budget is fulfilled (of course it does not renounce, of race, logical). You signed the budget with the Basque Nationalist Party; you will know what kind of debts or what kind of arrangements or what kind of issues you have with the Basque Nationalist Party to meet that budget. I hope and understand that will basically be the amendments that the Socialist Party put in so that all those municipalities governed by the Socialist Party do not run out of football fields, or roundabouts, and their petanque clubs also have sufficient funding throughout 2016... Therefore, Mr Prieto, you remain very short again; your amendment remains very short. And in my motion, in our motion, we do not say that we support the budget of the Basque Government in relation to development policy, but that we say that we do not apply additional cuts, because we of course – and we have said this as an active and passive – that these budgets come with cuts, they come with cuts for four years. Mrs. Gorospe, you're always ready to wait for 'art-to-day' when you're ready to go, 'inver contorto no es l'amportante'; I've never said anything else, I've always said we ought to be careful, but you've got your goal in a different place, and that's because you say you've got people to do and that doesn't happen. You also say that you wish social justice, and that is why you praise the social policies made by the Government. But the facts say here, in Er co-mania, that poverty has increased. There is the information of poverty: there are still more poor people, and there are even more people in the most extreme poverty. What's going on? Something doesn't work there, and that's the problem. "Cherence": I'm not going in that, I'm not getting in at the El reparto de carnet de coheentes yla... I'm not going in that, Mrs. Gorospe. I've always been consistent, and I think I play consistency, and I'm not going to play that game, which you like so much. And your amendment comes to say the usual: follow you as before, continue to bet on spending and investment policies... If we have been saying for four years that these spending and investment policies are wrong, that they have the north in the wrong place, obviously, we are not going to go in this way, impossible. And that continues and that these policies are being given, but it is that the data have not just come out, that as much as you strive to repeat again and again wonderful macroeconomic data, which are not so much...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u31	Go through with it, Mrs. Pindo.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u32	Ten seconds and I'm done. In society you are not perceiving, that people in their homes do not see it, that people continue to have problems to reach the end of the month, that there is still poverty, and you are wrong to make mistakes. I insist: four years have been lost, four years without leadership, and this fiscal policy that you agreed with the Socialist Party, which supports your activity, your economic policy, is empty; it serves no purpose at all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u34	Thank you very much, Madam President. I believe that the Socialist Party has come out of the debate that we had, which was not that of tax collection, but the execution or not of the planned investments that you approved in the budget. Not the ones that we approved; the ones that you approved. Because, Mr Prieto, the problem is not collection or lack of collection; that is the consequence, the consequence of the economic crisis, the consequence of unemployment, the consequence of people making less money. That's why you collect less. And, if you look at what the collection has fallen in these six months, you will see that: a) in VAT, in people's consumption. And we'll have to ask ourselves why. Why have people consumed less? We'll have to ask, listen. Is it perhaps because of the political instability that has been created in Spain for six months, and people have said, "Wow! Hey! Hey! Let's see what's coming"? Maybe, I mean, for comment. And, if you look at where the collection has fallen by 50%, you will see that it is in the capital income – this sheet we receive all parliamentarians among the documentation. Why did 50% fall in capital income after that spectacular and fantastic rise you guys made? Because companies earn half, half as much as last year, and that's the problem. It's not that administrations have less money; it's that people have less money, and the policies that a government and the entire administration should do is to get people to have more money, not less money, which is their proposal. "We need to raise taxes more," that's your proposal. No, it's the opposite, and that's our proposal. And the Basque Nationalist Party was telling us that the issue is one of priorities, and we could agree, but its priority is none. Not on trains, not on trams, not on school buildings, not on hospital buildings, as we saw at HUA the other day, Friday... What is your investment priority? If you're able to tell me... I'm going to tell you what the problem is; because you've also gotten a little involved in the Eastern issue of deficit and so on, it's going to have its grace. Look, in 2015, according to the execution that we have been sent, this government invested, in chapters VI and VII, 749 million euros. Do you know how much the debt has increased? More than 1.5 billion euros. Do you know what that means? That more than half the debt is to pay current expenses. Are we meeting any criteria with these accounts that this Government is approving? And you say to me, "And last year the Spanish government failed to meet the deficit..." No, the Government of Spain, no; Spain has failed. Because we have to believe that we are in the State of Autonomy and that everyone has his or her competence. The Government of Spain did meet the deficit criterion. Social security, no, for a few tenths, but that's off against the bottom... Here those who failed to comply were some autonomous communities, and, if there is a fine – which I hope there is – it will have to be paid by those who have incurred their responsibilities to fail to comply with those criteria. And for that we have a law in Spain: when the Kingdom of Spain suffers a fine for non-compliance with a parliament, a city council, an autonomous community..., those are responsible for paying it. Let us not cheat on the solitary and let us award to those who do not have the responsibility that some refuse to assume. Then, everyone here demands more skills, and when they have them, when they have the skills and they fail everything, it's someone else's fault. No, no... Let's not be wrong. And you tell me why... Of course, we support tax reform. Listen, we joined in correcting things that had been done, especially when they went up to those who had less capital income, beat them up, and lowered them down to those who had more. For setting an example, for setting an example, for setting an example... Because we said we didn't agree with that, but you're following with those gentlemen in it, because now, as this doesn't work, now we're going to raise local taxes, now we're going to hit the disaster at the IBI, now we're going to let people have less money to see if the administrations have more money to spend on themselves. And the debt? To pay for current spending. Because current spending in 2015... Above all, we had the luck, the good luck, in that year, that the Spanish Government did so so well that the risk premium went down, and we saved EUR 50 million in interest payments. So, where'd they go? To more current spending. That is not to promote employment, the accounts presented by the Basque Government are not to promote employment, and we are telling you... And, Mr Prieto, you cannot tell us that the criteria must be reviewed in the light of the drop in collection, and then guarantee the same expenditure as was planned for October last year. It's impossible. That's what you're asking.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u35	Go finish, Mr. Damborene... Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u36	The problem is that I believe that the verb review has two meanings, one of which would be something like examining or following the evolution of, which I believe is what is raised in the socialist amendment, and another would be to correct. I believe that what the Socialist Group is proposing is the authorisation of the first acceptance, when it says about the revision. In any case, it gives me the feeling that Mrs Gorospe wants this debate to happen as soon as possible; that is why she is using a low, unusual profile in it. And, certainly, we are also surprised that Mr Prieto, intermittently flogging the government, criticizes that some of us criticize the Basque Government, the Basque Finance Council or even the Basque Nationalist Party. Why does Mr Prieto criticise some of us? Because he knows that he is also responsible for the wrong decisions or miscalculations of the Basque Finance Council and for the approval of those estimates and for the approval of those budgets, for which the Socialist Group is also responsible. And therefore, as you know, he says that, no, what needs to be proposed are measures for the future in order to try and meet the expectations of the Basque Finance Council, when it is already known that this is practically impossible. Or, without the practically, that's impossible. Therefore, since the Basque Finance Council deceived or misled us, it is logical to ask for political responsibilities. That is, whether he lied to us or misled us, simply because he could not read the economic evolution that came to us, both in one situation and the other, what the Basque Finance Council, the Basque Nationalist Party, the deputies and the Basque Government have to do is to recognize those mistakes. It is not enough to tell the truth now in relation to the economic situation; we must assume the mistakes of the past, because, as I said before, many of us said at that time that the estimates planned for collection were little less than fanciful. And, on the other hand, that the Spanish Government is mistaken or lies to us, therefore, cannot assume that the Basque Finance Council, the Basque Nationalist Party, the Basque Socialist Party and the Basque Government can also be mistaken or lied to. It can't be; one thing doesn't justify the other. And the first thing you should do is recognize it. The first thing is to tell the truth; the second, right. That is to say, the political leaders have to be right. If they do not agree, they have to assume their responsibilities, even if they are of the Basque Nationalist Party. If they estimate fair budgetary revenues and they are not going to be achieved, they will have to say something. The Basque Nationalist Party will have to say something. That economic developments have changed. Well, yeah, but that's what they had to take into account, too. And now we are told that, in fact, this has to do with the evolution of the oil price, it has to do with the last quarter of the 2015 financial year, it has to do with the evolution of VAT, it has to do with the fact that our companies sell more outside and, therefore, they grow their exports, which do not carry VAT, as the head of the Treasury has explained today to all the listeners on Radio Euskadi. In short, but these things, of course, a political leader has to know them before. And if you don't know them, act with caution. What he cannot do is distort estimates of the future, distort budgets. And what he cannot do is also that the opposition remain silent in the face of such mistakes or lies. And, of course, I believe that this is very important: the political responsibilities of the Basque Finance Council, the Basque Government, the outside parliaments, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party, which you have to assume. And then there's what we do to make the right decisions by the end of the year. So, here we also put it in our amendment: no cuts in any area that has to do with the welfare state, health, education, social spending, no cuts in everything that has to do with R & D+i, with productive investments... What's going on is that it's possibly impossible; given the budget we have, it's going to be impossible. The Basque Government will therefore have to explain to us where it is going to cut us. We have some ideas as to where certain adjustments or cuts can be produced: in all that is left in Basque, in all that accumulated political spending, in all those institutions that are left in the Basque Country, in all that has to do with EITB – an instrument at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party – in all that has to do with linguistic policy, which reaches more than 100 million euros. That's where it could be cut now. It does not make any sense to introduce a tax reform now either, because this would have effects for the next year or the next year, but not now. In the first place, therefore, it is true to call for political responsibilities from those who have lied to us or miscalculated for the future, i.e. in relation to income estimates. And secondly, demanding measures from the Basque Government...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u37	Go finish, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u38	... so that there will be no cuts in all that we consider important: the state of well-being, productive investments; all this serves to enable people to live better and to create stable, dignified and quality jobs. For these reasons, I will vote for the amendment that I myself have tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u39	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr Pricee representative of the Basque Socialists, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u40	President. Mrs Pinedo, I thank you very much for the interest you take in following my speeches, in reading them and then rereading them, and also for the wonderful echo that makes me when I reproduce them here, with which, in the end, it is a compliment and as such I take it. But I would like to remind you that we are in this House debating this for an initiative of yours. So, you are the first to mark the terms of the debate, and from there, the groups are positioning themselves. And you say that the Basque Parliament urges the government not to apply any additional cuts in the 2016 budget, especially in the areas of development and economic recovery, using the option of a bold fiscal and debt policy. That is to say, you say that the Basque Parliament does not apply any cuts, that the Basque Government does not apply any cuts. He then accepts the 2016 budget, because it makes no further variation on the 2016 budget. In addition, he said that it had to be especially in development and economic recovery where no cuts should be made, and he also said that it had to be through a debt policy. Well, what we are saying about that is that, in fact, we do not agree that the objectives set out in the budget are not being met. That is why we propose that we review developments at this time, and that is why we propose a ratification of the collection objectives set out by the Basque Finance Council and of the budgets approved by this Parliament. And I want to see here today whether the Basque Nationalist Party renounces the commitments of the Basque Finance Council and renounces the objectives that have been approved in the budgets, because, if they vote against our amendment, it will be renouncing the objectives of the Basque Finance Council and renouncing the objectives of the budget. And then we will emerge from a metaphysical doubt in which the statements of the government and other public officials of the Basque Nationalist Party, such as the deputy general of Bizkaia, where we are being told, several times, that what we have to do is wait, that we have to be cautious, that we have to wait, that we have to be cautious and that we have to wait... And then, well, let's see if that wait and that prudence is a trifle, or if that wait and that prudence that comes up hides something that we're going to discuss today. What the Socialist Party says is that self-government gives margins for political, economic, decision-making that recomposes this collection. And we have put forward seven proposals here in this House; that is why we have come with a proactive attitude, in the face of an attitude of mere criticism. We have come up with a purposeful attitude, to say that self-government makes it possible to make more economic policy, more investment policy, more employment policy, more policy of collective bargaining recovery, more policy of effective collection, more policy of objectives in the fight against tax fraud. That allows for self-government. We do not need to wait to take those measures, to strengthen those measures. And one thing is the revision of the tax reform – which, in fact, will have to be done and must be done already, when this legislature ends, within the framework of the end of this legislature – and another is the revision of the 2016 collection. Because the review of the tax reform will tell us what its implementation has been, what its effectiveness has been... Whatever. But the collection, which is what is falling, which is what is failing, is worrying us right now, and we are at the beginning of the sixth month (we have another six months left, and, by the way, the remaining six months should be of better economic development), and in this country, in Euskadi, it is happening that, while the macroeconomic indicators, according to the Government, go well, as the growth of gross domestic product and the growth of employment, the collection is going badly. And this doesn't fit. And, therefore, we say: we must already review the objectives of the Basque Finance Council, what is happening in the collection and, with self-government, what political measures can be taken to take this forward. And that's the site. And I want to see today..., and I do not want to regret it, I want to see if the Basque Nationalist Party is going to vote against the objectives of the Basque Finance Council and against the objectives which, in this Parliament, by a majority and with our support, have been agreed upon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u41	Thank you, Mr Price. Finally, the Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u42	The Basque Nationalist Party, Mr Prieto, will not vote against the objectives of the Basque Finance Council. We do not give up, at all, on what was agreed at the Basque Finance Council. But you know perfectly well that what you have written, let's say, does not conform to reality. You know perfectly well that what is being done at the Basque Finance Council are forecasts – as you know – but, in addition, I explained in my first speech that any tax changes that could be made at this time would never come into effect in such a way that they would have effect in 2016. Many of the reasons for the fall in collection are attributable to the rules of the common territory, to the rules adopted in the State, in the case of VAT, and also in certain aspects of companies, but also in income. At no tax could we adopt measures and reforms at this time, even if they were done as a matter of urgency, so that their effects would occur in 2016, and you know that. No era... Say reform fiscal form una philfa, you say, Mrs. Pinedo. And by no means. This change of taxes was harmonized, and in a historical land it has produced good results. It must therefore be considered, when the year is over, whence it comes from, what are the reasons, and why this is different from action, and how it can be adapted to necessity. Eta, as for the... By the way, as far as the gross domestic product grows and, however, the collection does not have the same behaviour – to which you have referred, Mr Prieto – before Mr Maneiro has made a review of the arguments that the Member of the House of Finance of Bizkaia has brought this morning in the interview that has been made to him on Radio Euskadi. And he was referring to that too – I don't know if you have had an opportunity to listen to him –: exports are not subject to VAT, they don't apply VAT, and yet companies are entitled to VAT. That is one of the reasons why there have been changes in the forecast of value added tax collection. It's very curious, Mrs. Pindo. It's very curious. You don't even mention it. You've had a lot of legalism reviewing that the Eucomunk is making shrinks in the health, that in education it reduces restrictions on the eupkal system for social protection... and you don't even mention that in your motion when you mention the restrictions. It's very curious. I understand, I interpret, that you have admitted that there is no reduction in these three important areas. But it's important that you've been revered over and over again by the Jest Party of the Euko and consequently have been reviewed over and over and over again by the love of President Urkullu, the Jest Party for economic conjugation and the support of corporations... and you criticize today for the economic recovery and take measures for economic development so that there will be no reduction. And all of that is done, it's the fourth most important column of fun to fight unemployment, because it's one of the most serious situations for our people. And, finally, Mr. Damborenea, you were talking about priorities, going up and down taxes. Time to time. You with the tax drop have made a break...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u43	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u44	...as I told you, nearly 4 billion. Now, that you're in the election campaign, or that tonight you're starting the pre-campaign, which is there, you say you're going to lower taxes. Time to time: you are not going to lower taxes. Y, Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u45	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u46	... it is not a question, as you have said, that today you have chosen the low profile for this debate to pass without pain or glory, at all. I believe that this is so important what we are talking about; I think it is so important that we speak and defend the collective effort, led by the Lehendakari and the Basque Government, that Basque society is doing to eliminate and combat the most important factors of inequality in this system, that I am absolutely convinced that people are asking us for cooperation, cooperation and abandoning confrontation. Fight for unemployment, a good health system, a powerful education system, and the strong fight against social exclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for Mrs. Pindo Bustamante's original text. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters 21; the opponents are 53; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u48	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 1,11; counters, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u49	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of Misto-UPyD. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 1,11; counters, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u50	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the 10th, 16th; the contrary, 58; white, 0; abstainments, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u51	As a result, he will not be accepted. Finally, the Eucabertarian patriots will vote for the full correction of the group. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 27; the contrary, 48; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u52	So he didn't accept it. Third point in theme list: "To discuss these following undertakings at once, and to take up the final resolution: "The other proposition, as was made by the Julian Corps, concerning the parliament of Europe by the Arnuldo Observants. "Modize, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the President of theUPyD team, with the necessity to face the attempt to justify the criminal history of Arnuldo and the crime of the world." The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mr. Barrio, is your word to present and support the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u53	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen, counselors... Well, this is an initiative, a non-legislative proposal, in relation to a conference that the Secretary-General of Sortu delivered on 26 April in the European Parliament. And in that sense, my group, with these kinds of initiatives, wanted to show a protest. A protest for the unjust, provocative and fallacious references he made in relation to ETA terrorists who are in jail or who are fleeing justice. Some might think it is to give Mr Otegi publicity or propaganda, but we understand that these issues, in a House like this, cannot go unnoticed by the minutes of our sittings. And in that sense, that's why the initiative comes. Because qualifying the prisoners and prisoners of ETA as political prisoners remains, in addition to the permanent and constant stumbling block of the left abertzale, a lie and a qualification that insults the political prisoners that really exist in the world: the political prisoners that exist in Venezuela – as was observed yesterday in the European Parliament – the political prisoners today in the prisons of Morocco or those of the occupied Western Sahara, the political prisoners that exist in Cuba, China, Iran... But, in Spain, what there are are prisoners for crimes such as murder, extortion, kidnapping, belonging to a terrorist gang, organized mafia crime... There is no single political reference, apart from the fallacious justifications, in people who decided to immerse themselves in the crime and the search for the extermination of the non-nationalist as modus vivendi and as a standard of conduct. A stage is as political as the Shaolin killer or the Ensanche rapist. Otegi's intervention was – the truth is, that yes, apart from his qualifications in relation to fugitives and prisoners –... Otegi's intervention was very unprepared and not very novel, but he did want to highlight that provocation, the search for the whitening of the criminal history of the band to which he belonged. The usual obsessions: hostility to Spain, hostility to France, the dispersion of the prisoners of ETA, the imaginary conflict or the worship of their own personality – perhaps the most novel element of their conference –... the worship of their personality, that proud factor that appeared in a way overflowing you. That's right, speech-free ETA, ETA as a proactive actor of the situation even. I mean, something really indecent. And all this, ladies and gentlemen, remains a great provocation for the victims, as the sisters of three murdered by ETA, in particular Maite Pagazaurtundua and Teresa Jiménez-Becerril, reminded him in parliamentary office. And, again, Otegi became spokesperson for ETA and victimism of its members' situation. We have already spoken of the prisoners, but also their consideration of the ages fled from justice as refugees; another sarcasm and another provocation, and another insult to the true refugees in the world because of wars, because of dictatorships... An insult to Syrian refugees and those fleeing the extermination caused by Islamic terrorism, by the Islamic State, or to refugees from camps such as Dadaab on the Kenya-Somalia border. An insult, too – I repeat – to those Saharans in Algeria's refugee camps, genuine refugees. Because it also refers as refugees to the fugitives of ETA who live under the protection before Chávez, now Maduro. The same applies to refugees who have not responded here for their crimes. Well, Otegi used his freedom of expression to say the same thing he's always said: his defense of ETA, his hatred of Spain, of France... Nothing new except the constant search for humiliation of the victims. We have put forward an initiative, a proposal not of very clear law. Also, we understand that Otegi tried in his intervention to whiten that criminal trajectory of ETA – well, that does it often, of course; it's his style book – and, with an euphemistic and insulting expression for the victims of ETA terrorism, he called it "armed persuasion". Finally, these kinds of demonstrations are regarded, mostly, as offensive to the victims of terrorism, and as untrue, in relation to what the terrorist organization ETA represents today. And that is why we put forward a non-legislative proposal as a clear statement in relation to the unfair statements made by the Secretary-General of Sortu in Brussels. And we say that the Basque Parliament declares that the members of the terrorist organization ETA are not refugees and that the prisoners of ETA are not political prisoners. I think it's a clear statement, no complications. We could have done more and said more, but we understand that a statement of these characteristics, a clear, conclusive message that the members of the terrorist organization are not refugees and the prisoners are not political prisoners, is very easy to adopt by the parliamentary groups in this House, by all the parliamentary groups in this House, except, logically, for which he supports Mr Otegi's actions. But, in any case, we raise this issue, which is in line with Mr Maneiro's initiative, which we too will support and support when we vote, and with the amendments in their entirety. Mr Maneiro, logically, if my amendment does not come out, then I will vote in favour of it, like Mr Elola's, who also says similar things to what we are defending. This is, therefore, the initiative, which wants to be a protest against so much injustice and the provocation of the victims of ETA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u55	Yes, thank you very much, President. We will be very attentive to the excuses that the Basque Nationalist Party can make not to say what the People's Party puts forward in this simple but clear and forceful motion. Let's see what the Basque Nationalist Party says to refuse to say that the members of the terrorist organization ETA are not political prisoners and that the escapees from Spanish justice are not refugees. There are times when excuses are made, and sometimes excuses are made. We will listen carefully to what excuses the Basque Nationalist Party makes, because – as I say – it is a concrete motion, which goes to the point and leaves no room for doubt. We wanted to table an amendment which seeks to supplement or supplement the arguments put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, the Socialist Group has done the same, but basically we agree. The sad thing is that this Parliament is not going to say today that ETA prisoners are not political prisoners, and the sad thing is that this Parliament is not going to say today that the escapees from Spanish justice members of ETA are not refugees. This is the sad thing. And the sad thing is to see again that this is going to happen as a result of the fact that the Basque Nationalist Party will vote against these initiatives. The lehendakari isn't even there, maybe so he doesn't have to vote. Finally, we do agree with the motion put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, and we also agree with the amendment put forward by the Socialist Group. We will vote for all of them, and we will also vote for the UPyD amendment. A few weeks ago I explained to the lehendakari that the leader of Sortu and expressed for terrorist activities, Arnaldo Otegi, went to the European Parliament and participated in various acts of political propaganda, in order to whitewash his own history of continued relationship with ETA and the history of the whole Abertzale left and the terrorist gang itself. Basically for this he went to Parliament: to whitewash the history of ETA, to tell lies to European public opinion. During his propaganda tour, I said, he made several statements that we understand are insulting and contempting the victims of terrorism and the whole of democratic society, which the Basque Parliament and the Lehendakari himself, as representatives of the Basque citizens, should not let go. Thus, the expression for terrorist activities came to say that "we have all been victims of the same conflict and we will not make distinctions between each other", that "the suffering is measured on the same scale for all". He also criticized the Government of Spain and praised its own political parish, pointing out something that we believe is unacceptable: that all political prisoners must go out on the street, and the deportees and refugees must return home. "When a conflict is over, the person who has participated in it is not kept in prison." All this was what Arnaldo Otegi said on that visit, and these words, these phrases, seem to us to be, in addition to lying, a direct insult to the victims of terrorism and to democratic society. That is why this Government, also the Basque Nationalist Party, and especially the lehendakari, should say that it does not agree with these statements. Basically what he said in that inquiry was that Arnaldo Otegi can finally make use of his freedom of expression. We believe that this is absolutely unacceptable. This Parliament has something to say..., and the Lehendakari too, and must say that ETA prisoners are not political prisoners and that the fugitives from justice are not refugees. This is what we raised in that inquiry and we raised today with this motion. He told him that, on a lower floor than the expresso gave his talk in the Eurocamera, a group of democrats, worthy people, concentrated next to the hall of plenary, to denounce the presence of Otegi and keep a minute of silence in memory of the victims of terrorism; an act organized by two Euro MPs, Maite Pagazaurtundua and Teresa Jiménez-Becerril, who again gave an example of dignity in facing their truth to the lies of the expresso. Therefore, this Parliament and the Lehendakari should basically say what the motion of the Group of the European People's Party says or what the Socialist amendment says or what the UPyD amendment says: that we do not agree; that, when someone lies and insults Basque society in that way, this Parliament has to respond decisively to defend democracy, to defend its institutions, to defend the truth of the events that have taken place, to defend the victims and, ultimately, to defend the society we represent. Unfortunately, the Basque Nationalist Party is not going to join, for all kinds of interests, but the fundamental thing is that it is not going to join. What we propose is that this Parliament declare that the prisoners of the terrorist band ETA are not political prisoners and that their members who have fled the justice system are not refugees; that this Parliament strongly rejects the statements made by Arnaldo Otegi during his visit to the European Parliament. And we want this Parliament to commit itself to denounce any attempt to whitewash ETA's criminal history and to protect the dignity of the victims of terrorism and Basque society, something perfectly reasonable, something perfectly democratic, of common sense. We must not say much more than two or three sentences so that the position of this Parliament can be made clear; however, the Basque Nationalist Party and – of course, of course – EH Bildu will vote against all these initiatives. Some for some reasons, others for other perhaps similar reasons. The truth is that this Parliament is not going to be able to say that ETA prisoners are not political prisoners, but are imprisoned as a result of the violation of a number of human rights, imprisoned as a result of having committed a number of offences under the Criminal Code. We, in any case, maintain this position. We will therefore support the motion of the People's Group, the UPyD amendment and also the Socialist amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u56	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team, Mr Elola, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u57	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning to all of you chiefs and congressmen. UPyDko eta Alderdi Popularreko ordezkariei entzun ondoren, gurearekin hasiko naiz. Indeed, the Socialists have serious doubts that it will contribute something positive, to the task that we are about to overcome the damage that terrorist violence has caused in our society, which we are here to censor or defend the promotional tour that Mr Arnaldo Otegi has done in the various chambers. Ez had you honor Egyptian dionik terrorismak gure gizratean come out dituen kalteak gainditzearen eztabaidari, Arnaldo Otegik orin de la hilabete drinking bilbidean winbera deberdinetan egindako saioen ondoren. We understand in the Socialist group that every person who has suffered the criminal act of his is disgusted with the respect some of those two Chambers have shown to a person in some way connected with that course. And we also disapprove of the fact that not only the principal secretary of the 'Bauscinism', but the explanation given four years ago, as if it were a genetic attitude of the Basques, it was a sort of Eukadinian, natural, and that is not so, we say, socialists. We all know that the extension and increase of it with the democracy and auto-generacy was not an inevitable misfortune, but an act of voluntary preservation and nourishing politically, and of killing and threatening those who had other thoughts. Nada ne nadie obligó a matar y amenazar a quienes pensaban different, y en situacion están, statusos, citos y milles de peoples. Now, I have my doubts – as I was telling you – that recurrent debates of this type are useful for settling the post-ETA stage on firm foundations, on a certain memory of what has really happened, a memory with all its ingredients. This is a work that we have to address, above all, within our society: on the street, in the public debate, in the media, in the school, in the books of History. Because historical memory has to be, above all, that: history and history. It must abide by the facts and their context; it cannot be subject to the interpretation always interested and partial that they want to give it those who were personally and politically involved in that reality. Of course, in this House we must reiterate that, even if all the victims are equal, they cannot be placed on the same level as those killed and those killed, and that after the amnesty of 1977 there have been no political prisoners, but rather prisoners convicted of crimes, whether they are of political intent or not, and that the only people who would deserve the name of refugees in our country would be those who had to march to be safe from ETA threats. But these concepts, which the Socialists are very clear, are not accredited or imposed by parliamentary majority, and it would be unfortunate if we would just repeat here again positions that we know from memory, without moving not a centimeter along the path that we have to go to in order to finally leave behind the black page of terrorism; some more than others, everything has to be said. We have not been the socialists who have brought this issue to this House for debate. We have no interest in giving you Mr Otegi or any more publicity in Brussels or Catalonia. But, given that the debate has entered this plenary, we want at least to benefit from it. That is what we want with the amendments we have tabled to the initiatives of the People's Group and the UPyD. Ez garza sozialistak izan eztabaida hau ekarri dugunak. Ez dugu inolako interesik Otegi jaunari Bruselan eta Bartzelonan izan duena baino publicitate gehiago emateko. Baina, billura honetan eztabaida hau sartu denez, behintzat at the same time tenaiegun etekin bat Alderdi Popularrak eta UPyDk aurkeztutako initiatibei. Idazkari surturen nagusia zein EH Bilduren lehendakaria izazko altaagaiak egindako azierazpenen eta sustapen-beraren salaketaz harantzago joan nahi dugu. Funtsezkoa dena azpimarratu nahi dugu, batu ahal eta batu behar gaituena. We want to go beyond the denunciation of the promotional tour and the statements made in it by the Secretary General of Sortu and candidate for Lehendakari of Bildu. We want to highlight what is essential, what can and should unite. That is why we have proposed in our amendment to reject any attempt to conceal the suffering experienced in this country; to reiterate that future coexistence requires the recognition of the injustice of violence and damage caused, as well as the recognition of the dignity of the victims, all of whom deserve the right to truth, justice and reparation, and, of course, to admit clearly that nothing justified violence and that it is an offence for their memory to present as ideological victims the terrorists condemned by justice or those who fled in order not to be arrested. That's why we've submitted the full correction. And I will read to you, that he who would heareth and seeth divers things, may show him that seeth them: "The Parliament of Europe, as the representative of the society of euscal, is, what has suffered in years the criminal consequences of fanaticism, condemns every attempt to conceal the suffering which has been lived in this country, and again indicates that it is necessary to burn the one another for the future life of injustice, violence, and pain, and also the dignity of the victims to whom truth is due to all, justice, and the right to observe. And the second point says: "The parliamentary Act of Europe indicates that the use of words for members of a terrorist institution is a step back in the way of living and tolerance, and also in the way of committing life and freedom to the values of men above all political causes." And this has been introduced, and also in order that the legislature of the Social Party may be revealed who has expressed it and has spoken it and will defend it at the moment of the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u58	Thank you, Mr. Ella. The representative of the EH Group, Mr. Urizar, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u59	Good morning, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. Well, we're taking ratings about words: what one says, what another says, what is good, what is not right. Words are important, and I won't take care of words. But, it seems, what some people have said is important, and what others have said is not so much. This is called the Word House, this Member of Parliament. but in those houses of the word there seem to be some liberty to speak, and others not. Arnuldo in the European parliament used words of political prisoners and fugitives, which caused a tremendous disturbance because it has torn the dignity of the victims. And I will begin my rating from this last point, because it is at least the most important thing for me: That's a great respect for victims. To all the victims without giving up one. And even if they don't agree with the statements that some victims do, I respect what they say. But respect, don't share. I respect them, I do not agree with what they say; for the victims, even among themselves, do not think the same. And I am not separating from the origin of the victims or violences of the victims, nor between the victims of the victims or the victims of the states. Although the cause of suffering is the same, some victims and others have decided to give different answers. And I respect him with all due respect that the victims of living and of the future are the victims of whom I admire or admire-that the past is for me the victims who have not forgotten to overcome the past, and who have decided to build up the future. I will respect the anger and criticism of others, but the victim who has decided to look into the future will, by this means, be the cause of me, and we shall be our guide. And in that sense, I think, knowing about the victims, we have a clear idea of what we know about ourselves. It is clear what we have to do with our political agents. For them I will say once and again for all the victims, without exception, truth, justice, and observation. And that it's no longer a promise or a guarantee of what happened. Let's all get together. That's not what we're doing. That night we're on some side and we're not on some other side. Let's sit down because they all deserve that. Everyone deserves it. Use of words and lack of respect. A few words, it seems, are directly lacking in respect. I've had a lot of disrespect here, in this hemical cycle, just a lack of respect for many and different people. How do you think I've felt personally to express myself as a terrorist or as a member? How do you think, in the decades, when I've been publicly, in concentration, in statements, in demonstrations? These persons are founded on the looseness of expressions, and I must accept them, as I seem to be at the house of the word. The freedom of speech seems to be acceptable to some, but not to others. And I'm just saying the words about non-happiness, but, uh, it's important, but... it's crucial, it's actions. It's often said: we must proceed from words to actions. The word is important, but if we confine ourselves to words, or move only in words, because there is no will for action, we shall not move from the starting point. And that's also a political purpose. This is also a political purpose, and a political decision for the solution of the Euska conflict and the solution of the peace process, which the Popular Government had taken in 2011. In 2011, when he arrived at Monclo, he decided not to move, and from that moment we were all confused. Great Britain decided that the prisoners of North Ireland should be responsible for the peace process or resolve the peace process. And I don't think there's any such thing as money against the government of Britain, but without forgetting the past, he decided to look into the future and build the future. And I think it worked. On the other hand, here and there, the Spanish Government insists on stopping the process of peace, because its government wants to build the stage of the winner and the loser, because some of them are to win and others to lose, because this is the way to divide society... Here, however, instead of enabling them to destroy their arsenals, instead of helping them, it puts them in trouble. And all must be said: In front of international surprise. Here I end my discourse with those who look towards the past. The object is to make no progress in actions, and to bind them in words, because the past is still to be sought for by them, and to seek for the past because there is no project for the future. We won't be there. We've decided to advance because the Basque Society has decided. Basque society is on its way. Basque society has decided to move forward, and we're on our way too. We don't want to forget the past because we have a warrant to repeat it no more. But we are going forward with words, but especially with actions, and we shall not only do so, because the majority of the society is in this clarave.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u60	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u61	Mrs. President, members of the legislature. I'd like to share a fundamental announcement with all of you, and it's this: The legislative, by principle, every legislative, ought not to dispute about the opinions of political representatives and citizens, much less to admit of any resolution about them. I know that some have often had this tendency, and sometimes some political or bishop or other have made expressions which are not agreeable to them, to receive them directly, and to lead them to the legislative, to the courts, or councils, in order to create and determine controversies for them or against them. But that does not concern the legislature. Public expressions are made under the protection of freedom, and may, of course, be censured; we may accuse them in press, in public, in public, or in meetings. And in some particular cases, where they are injuries, or calumnies, the judges may examine and judge; but I do not think it proper for a parliament to make decisions about it. On the other hand, the same proclamations, or nearly the same as those which are brought in by those who are proposing to-day, have been discussed in this legislature before. In the whole meeting of the 16th of May, 2013, this subject was taken up, and the parliamentary said what is meant to be repeated to-day. At the meeting at that hour, the parliament proclaimed that there was no political prisoner in Spain either in Basque or in Spain. And he refused to call the prisoners like that. So it's already been said. There hasn't been a proclamation against it since. We do not, therefore, understand what it is that we must repeat it again. Por lo tant, lo que ya esta dicho y adecdo por este Parlamento no es necesari sentirlo. Ya esta dicho y testdo. In that debate, the views of all groups on what political prisoners are and to whom this definition applies or not were made clear. But, so that there is no doubt about the position of my group and the insistence on the curses of some, I repeat the words of my colleague Maribel Vaquero in that plenary: "The Basque Nationalist Party agrees with the United Nations in its definition of ETA prisoners, not considering them prisoners of conscience or political prisoners, but prisoners of political motivation, who, motivated by political objectives, have dedicated themselves to breaking the law, committing human rights violations, bombarding, shooting and using violence, or, where appropriate, have given protection and coverage to such actions. ETA prisoners have been tried and convicted for crimes related to ETA's violent terrorist activity. ETA has always wanted to condition and alter the political situation. Their armed actions, attacks and assassinations have had and persecuted a political effect; hence they are people who, with political objectives, are delinquent," we said then. It is therefore clear that for the Basque Nationalist Party, ETA prisoners are not political prisoners. We can repeat it or it can be repeated as many times as you want, but that, repeat it, does not change at all the reality or our position before it. We're not going to whitewash ETA's story. We don't want peace without memory. That, unfortunately, we have already met and we have already found that it does not work, that it does not serve to build coexistence. But we will not repeat the same slogans every time one of you seems necessary or interesting, or whenever others intend to insist on a false account of our past. The bases on which cohabitation is to be established in Euskadi have already been established by the Ponence for Peace and Cohabitation in the previous legislature, and have been ratified in this legislature by this plenary. Repeating it continuously gives it no more value; in any case, it trivializes it. If the principles are clear and if they are well settled, it is not necessary to repeat them machaconically, and less according to the partisan times and interests of one or the other. That is why our amendment seeks to escape slogans that entrench everyone in their trench. It seeks to advance towards the encounter between different, towards coexistence, based on memory, yes, but not paralyzed and trapped by it. It calls for constructive collaboration with all political, social and institutional actors to move towards social and political normalization in Euskadi. It calls for the disarmament of language, the withdrawal from our political language of offensive expressions for victims, or those who seek to give political justification to human rights violations. It also calls for the normalization of criminal and prison policy, eliminating exceptional applications of the law, on the one hand, and assuming legal and individual avenues for access to prison benefits, on the other. It calls, in short, to look forward, to walk not without looking back, not forgetting or whitening what has happened, but to seek a better future, more in peace, more in coexistence, that avoids repeating the traumatic experiences of our recent past. We don't want to continue in the trenches, we want to go to a meeting between the different ones. We want to build a life without justifying anything. Based on memory, yes, but not paralyzed in memory. Let us disarm the language; let us either offend the victims or justify the waters of human rights, and let us look forward. Let's make the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u62	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr. Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u63	Thank you, President. Mr. Iturrate, I'll start at the end. I don't know, just like you, the debate is bothering you, or the debate is reproducing, but I think the uncomfortable thing is to move in the speeches, in the speeches that generate others, that launch others, and that we don't move and that we don't reaffirm ourselves in our positions and that we don't demand the truth. You have spoken of the falsehood of some speeches; indeed, that is what we want to highlight. You're going to have a problem if you vote against my initiative today, because the initiative... If you've voted the same as before... Will you vote against my initiative? In other words, "the Basque Parliament declares that the members of the terrorist organization ETA are not refugees and that the prisoners of ETA are not political prisoners". Well, if that's what you've already voted for, now it's normal for you to reassert yourself on that issue. And that is why this initiative is so clear, that what it seeks is to disarm precisely the language, to say the clear things. And, of course, do not humiliate the victims, which is what they have claimed in relation to that speech, in relation to those approaches, in relation to those qualifications to the prisoners or fugitives of ETA and in relation to that situation, with the ETA itself. That is to say, we have spoken historically in this Parliament about ETA, we have, and of course it was not to promote it; it was to condemn it. Well, we still have to keep talking about some issue of its effects, such as those we have brought up in connection with this issue, which cause harm, which cause pain, which are unjust, which are not true, which are not true. That is the issue that brings us to present such a simple initiative. And someone has talked about the post-ETA stage – it was Mr. Elola – in which we are in. Well, you could actually say that, couldn't you? But we are witnessing, by the speeches and from what we see, a phase of ETA whitening, and we are going to resist. And my group is going to resist that. And we could have brought a much broader initiative, with many more points, because there are many more outstanding issues, but we wanted to focus on an issue that society and that the victims have perceived as negative, as unfair, as false, and bring to this Parliament. And, of course, make it as easy as possible for all groups, removing those who support such speeches, that particular discourse, and those who do so, to support it. That is why we have made that effort, and we understand that we have to walk there. You, in your amendment of the whole, are putting more things, indeed; you are doing an approach in that direction, but also mixing it with what is necessary for the normalisation of coexistence. We want to say this as a graphic question, as an express question, a parliamentary statement. Living together, of course, we have to work with each other, and that's what we are, and that's why we are political parties that have our programs and that we want to live in peace, and we've always wanted it. Living together, we have always, always pushed it. What we want is for clear pronouncements to be made on clear and legitimate issues, and which are also required of us by the victims. Bildu changes his voice, but he doesn't change his background, he doesn't change his speech. For Bildu, this legislature ends as it began, with Bildu reaffirming himself in the justification of ETA, without condemning the crimes of the band. Mr. Urizar, the speech sometimes endures everything, but you say you have respect for the victims of ETA... All victims, all victims; ETA victims as well. But, Mr.Urizar, you do not condemn today (formerly, today not) what caused your pain. I mean, I don't know exactly what you respect about the victims of ETA. I don't know exactly what you respect! I think it's a false speech you make in relation to the victims. You don't respect them. You continue to value and support what caused your pain. And, of course, in this whole process that you're talking about, you say there are no winners and losers. Of course there must be winners and losers in this whole process! Of course there must be winners and losers! Losers have to be terrorists, ETA members, fugitives, prisoners and those who may be around, those have to be losers. And the winner, then, must be democratic society, must be Euskadi and must be the victims of terrorism. In the same speech as at first, Mr. Urizar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u64	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u65	Representatives of EH Bildu support this character and the words spoken by this character. This is the reality of the facts. [[He showed a sign.]] Arnaldo Otegi. It justifies the targeted murder of 856 human beings. He entered political-military ETA in 1977, and military ETA in 1981. In 2009, the Strasbourg Court ruled that Batasuna leaders, like him, proposed a project that did not respect the rules of democracy. He was sentenced to six years in prison for kidnapping the director of the Michelin factory, Luis Abaitua. Zero is the number of times he has condemned the murders of ETA; zero is the number of times he has recognized that killing men, women and children was unfair. He served 15 months in prison for thanking all the Gudaris who have died committing attacks. In 2011, the National Court sentenced him to 10 years in prison as a leader of a terrorist organization. Zero is the number of times he has recognized that ETA violence was unnecessary. This character is being defended by you today. This character is being defended by you today. To this character, his trajectory and the words recently spoken in the European Parliament. (Kartel beat erakutsi due) Is it not your face of shame to support the words spoken by this character, or not to strongly censor them by this Parliament which represents Basque democratic society? At least I'd be ashamed of myself. This is Arnaldo Otegi's trajectory, and we cannot be silent when this character walks around Europe or around the world saying that ETA prisoners are political prisoners. It's unacceptable. It does not matter that this Parliament said two, three or twenty years ago that ETA prisoners are not political prisoners; it must be repeated as often as necessary, especially now, that Otegi's words are, in short, recent and have just been verbalised just a few weeks ago in the European Parliament. And this Parliament which represents Basque society cannot remain silent. We cannot be equidistant between this character and the victims of terrorism; we cannot be equidistant between this character and democratic society; we cannot remain silent to this assertion. Mr. Urizar said that "we respect the victims." No, they don't respect them. If you consider that ETA prisoners are political prisoners, you are insulting and scorning the victims of terrorism, because what you would say is that their murders were good and justified. You have to say, any Democrat should say, that ETA prisoners are in jail for committing crimes perfectly defined in the Penal Code, and that, therefore, they are not political prisoners. Political prisoners are those who are in jail – and there are many in the world, but not in Euskadi, nor in Spain –..., they are in jail for having given their political opinion on certain matters. This is not the case with ETA prisoners. ETA prisoners are or were in prison for having committed offences perfectly defined in the Criminal Code. It is not enough to say, Mr Iturrate, that it is already said. These statements are recent, and this Parliament, which debates a multitude of matters of very little importance every day of the year, must be able to position itself quickly and forcefully on this issue. You could have come down to the rostrum, if this matter really does not matter to you, or consider it to be repeated in time, and simply said that you agree with what Mr Barrio or some of the amendments put forward, or with the UPyD motion itself, and vote in favour of them. Just this. How important it is that it has already been said two or three years ago, when these statements have just been, again, delivered by Arnaldo Otegi! They are not slogans; this is not a slogan. To say that ETA prisoners are not political prisoners is not a slogan, but a declaration of principles, and our commitment to the truth, and to face the lies that members of what is called the abertzale left intend to sell in Europe or in the world. They have always done so, they have tried to sell their lies in the middle of the world, and what the Basque Democrats have to say is that we do not agree and they lie; they lie with the intention of whitewashing their own history of accompanying ETA and the terrorist gang's own criminal history. Pernando Barrena wrote, not too long ago, that today's terrorists may not be, depending on who writes the story. That is why it is so important that we are the democrats who write history. It seems that the Basque Nationalist Party and the lehendakari (which is not even present!) Those inadmissible statements by Arnaldo Otegi are good. They believe that this matter is not a priority, that it is not important, that everything is already being said. We support the motion, we defend our motion, and we reiterate ourselves in our democratic postulates of defending the victims and the Basque and Spanish democratic society. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u66	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists, Mr. Elola. From here?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u67	Yeah, cut it out. Good morning again. A lot of things have been said here, and as we said in our first practice, we don't want to give Mr. Ocera any more publicity. If he's had publicity in his career, we don't want to give him any more credit. And again to this Chamber... We don't think it's right to bring him here. Our principles are clear. I think you all know what our career has been on this subject. We don't want to justify the story, but we don't want to repeat it again in the same things. We don't... We believe that we have spoken clearly of these things, that we are speaking and that we will speak. Now we are in this state, and since we are in this state, why again, if we have said so before? We speak clearly in our correction, and say that they are not properly spoken political and fugitive prisoners, and that these words are really painful, Mr. Uriezar. And in the name of freedom of expression, nothing can be said, and knowing that, as you say, you respect victims, you ought to remove these words from your words. And when Arnuldo Observatory said that, even later, you'd have to say that those words are not suitable for this time of year, but that they are real steps. You come to-day, in the name of the Collector, or in the name of EHG, and gave us lessons: what is to be done, and what is to be done. You've put the start to that starting point, but I still know that the patriot on the left has to arrive at the halberd where you are now; he's got to get that far from where you're from. Let me give you an example. If he owes ten to a man, who owes 0 to him who is in debt, all moving does not mean that he must go to five, but that ten should pay the ten. And there's the ethical floor, there's a democratic game, and you're on your side of the tree, and you're still in debt to the patriotic left, or to the EH collect as a whole. I'll tell you, it's only a few years ago, a year ago, the year ago, when the 'Bandy Homeer' said on a radio: "La violencia siempre es el peor caetaino en cualquier situón." And he said too: "Uno piensa que no queda vous viri una cuestion." And then, when he said that, it seemed like a step forward, but so many steps, the last step, the final one, the final one, you're missing. After all, violence is not the worst way, but the one used by the terrorist group and it must be understood that it wasn't supposed to happen, like a natural thing, as I've said before... No, sir, it was the one that helped you, pushed you and thought it over, and you're still missing all of them to tell you. And this is another example of what I want to remark in the following example: that you still lack the final step. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u68	Thank you, Mr. Ella. The representative of EH Collector, Mr. Urizar, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u69	You know what's going on here? You've got it straight, and I think you've hit it right in the middle: advertising, publicity... That's it. If he'd made these statements somewhere else, nothing happened here. The publicity's what's going on. But I'll tell you one thing: The best publicity you've ever had to do was spend six years and a half in jail for politics, and that's the best publicity you've ever had. And that wasn't EH Collect's decision. You might want to ask others, because that was the best publicity. From that point on, of course, there are other interests here. He wants to descend to the level of Shaolin monk. [[He's pointed out a congressman.]] That's why you want to make it worse. I won't justify what he did. I won't justify it, not even in 77, not before. Not in 77, not before. No, no! You know what's going on? Patxi Lópezen produced a decree, according to unjust violence, 60 to 78. Unjust violence too... Oh, what's the matter here, ethics only for a long time and not for a long time? I don't know what motive it would have been to do what everyone did on his day. I went to jail, almost jail, not violence, because I wasn't in any army. Each of you makes his choice, but the choice of others does not throw it on me. Some of them are interested in concealing political motivations. I can't justify whether that political motive can be justified or not, that violence, but that there has been political motive. The victims, and several reports, are admitted to have been owing to political motivation. The violence was due to political motives. All those, then, who are responsible for violence, some have been owing to political motive. You don't have to go down to the level of a shaolin monk. And then one more thing. We know, Mr. Maniro, that you are the spokesman of the victims, we know. Because you say how victims should think. My respect is on a different level. I say every victim will say what he wants and I will respect everything, share or not. There is a difference: you decide what hurts victims, and what does not. And that's not my case.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u70	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Finally, the Eucabertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u71	President andrea. Mr. Maneiro, you said in the performance that you made us – which, by the way, was repeated; it was a replacement in that role, we had already seen it –..., you said, referring to us, that you would fall in shame if you behaved or if you were going to make the decision that we are going to make. You're going to be ashamed of yourself, Mr. Maneiro! You're never ashamed of yourself! You have come here, you have slandered, you have accused, you have tried without evidence to public offices of the Basque Nationalist Party, it has been absolutely demonstrated that they were false accusations, and you never fall in shame. So, don't say you'd fall for shame, because you have it for that and for much more. Look, I told you in my first speech. It was so predictable what they were going to say, that I have responded to each of their accusations before they even made them. But I'm going to tell you a lot more clearly: stop slogging, stop cheap propaganda, stop mandangas, in short, and get to the bottom of it. Bring something specific to this Parliament. Put in place concrete measures, be proactive, get to work. Look, I will give you an idea: you have been paralysed for a few months now by a non-legislative proposal in which you could allow this Parliament to urge the European Parliament to adopt a law, a European directive, to treat the victims of terrorism with the same guarantees throughout Europe, and you have already withdrawn it twice from the agenda. Bring things that are proactive, bring things that are concrete and concrete politics, and stop repeating slogans, and above all use words not as words, but as knives to throw them at the political opponent, who is what you normally do. Mr Barrio said – he told me – that I will have a problem if I vote against this non-law proposal. Well, look, I don't think I'm gonna have any problem with that, because I haven't had it so far. In any case, if what you really wanted was a joint statement, why didn't you propose it? I was a pain in the ass; I could have called. I could have called! He could have said, "Do we agree on a text?". Or what did you want, a drag? No, no, if I already know her statement! If a two-phrase slogan, an advertising slogan, I know it! If we have already approved it in this Parliament! For it is already said, and I will not repeat it whenever it suits you, or whenever it interests you. Get to work, Mr. Barrio, you too. Get to work: call the phone, try to agree, try to reach consensus. Because you don't... I called him to see if there was any deal on it. I called him to see if there was any transaction on it. You were not interested, like Mr. Maneiro, that there should be an agreement here. Here what was of interest to you was to throw back words, terms and language as if they were a stone to the political opponent. That's what you were looking for, and that's what you're not going to get with our help. I don't know if I'm gonna have a problem or not. It seems that, in view of what this society has been thinking about us in recent years and in the light of the surveys, it is not going to be as serious a problem as yours, Mr Maneiro. In any case, in any case – Mr. Barrio, I'm sorry, it's that you look so much alike on these issues that I find difficult to distinguish –... in any case, I don't care if I have it, the problem, because on this issue we don't seek comfort, we don't seek anyone's paradises, nor yours, we don't seek a comfortable space. We seek to move forward, we seek to build coexistence in Euskadi, we seek to build a society that progresses, a society that protects and recognizes the victims and that is able to build their future by looking well to the past and preventing the events that have happened to us from happening again. And, honestly, with its slogans and its machaconic repetition we do not advance. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u72	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. After discussion, we'll vote for the original text of another proposal like the Basque Potula group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 11. The opposites, 47; white, 0; abstain, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u73	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the original text of Mr. Maniro Labayen's motion. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 75; supporters 11. The opposites, 48; white, 0; abstentions, 16.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u74	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 27; the contrary, 48; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u75	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 53; the white one, the 1st; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u76	So he didn't accept it. And in the end, we vote for the full rights of the U.S. patriots. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 27; the contrary, 48; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u77	So he didn't accept it. Forth point on the theme list: "Gather up [as] a congregation of the congregation of the Jews, concerning the coming of the shield of the LORD, Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Urruzuno has the word of meeting and defending the EH team.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u78	Good morning, all of you. Today, in EIB, we bring the initiative on the production of the protective fund of the audience, and on Monday we led them to the EIB Control Committee as a discussion, without saying that the logical question would be to give us in this house the special committee created in order to arrive at EITB's integration in the house at EIB's time, in order to put it in the context of the integrated reform that EITB needed. During this law the law of exchange is going on, it has not been quite possible to begin this discussion which is so necessary. It has not been possible in this law, and we believe that in the difficult and great situation of EIB, we have not all given him any answer as much as he needs. In this sense we could assume the process as our self-critics, was a lost law. We shall not extend here with regard to the causes and the cares of it; but, as the Basque People are assembled, we should at least wish to convey to all parties a call, a message, and in this sense EITB, which is so necessary, that we have given you a request to make the discussion of the public media which this nation is so necessary. This discussion, this discussion of the Protector of EIB, we plan from a starting-point, and that EITB, in our opinion, does not at this moment see the Protector, or rather, that EITB has no medium between the people, in the mistakes that may be found in EITB, which may be said to be in EITB. And we know that in 1998 the EIB's 1982 Sorage Act was modified, and in this modification, in its tenth article, the President of the Administration Council is somehow attributed the figure of the spectator's patron. And this is what we say, especially when we say that no one will come: "he has 98an bla, blah, blah, blah, blah." Yeah, we know. But I am sure that there may be more than one here today, namely, that EIB has somewhere by definition a protector of the watcher in the theory. But it's this problem for us. In the first place, it is scarcely known to any one at present, and, as no one knows, it is impossible that this function should be fulfilled. There is no knowledge among the people, and the work done in the course of his 18th year's career reveals it also. How many complaints has he had in 18 years? The question is, we don't know how much he received, but we're very, very, very, very... Not many. We're talking about a instrument that gives quality and prestige to public media. We have clear references to media or media, which have a reputation among the nations, which confirm it. And since even the most efficient and democratic systems make mistakes, we believe, that, since there is no perfect system, a care, generation, and development of such a function, is indispensable in EIB. EIB, in our opinion, ought to admit the necessity of such a means, and apply it to its service and quality in order to improve it. In this modification of the law, as I have already observed, the President of the Administration is accused of fulfilling the functions of the protective audience. Functions are attributed to him, but he has no further development. In order to make this function effective, it must first be a permanent character, and we all know that at the present day, EIB, EIB, EIB, is now almost related to the Law, that the President is a figure which changes every six months. So for us, the President of the Council of Administration cannot be charged with the functions which must attend to the figures of the public protector. We think it must be a much more lasting duration, and cannot be subject to changes which may be exposed from six months to six. Besides this, we believe, besides constancy, that it requires means and means, that it requires a number of labours in order to be able to do well. It requires, above all, a presidency to make its work known, and to open the means of communication with its fellow-citizens, and it is necessary, too, to determine its undertakings. It is necessary to make a thorough description of his affairs. And it is not only a figure that can exist in neutrality, in objectivity, in manipulative... a figure that will take care of; it would be necessary to establish the rights of the equality of genera, as well as to ensure the rights of the minors. We are speaking of a figure with a perfectly integrated and extensive character; but, as we say, it is necessary to make a precise determinate representation of its functions, with its professional profile, of course. So the first problem, the first disagreement: we have at this moment a complete doubt of the permanence which the Council of Administration is attributed to it in the draft. Another question for reflection and discussion: the protector of the audience must necessarily be a member of the Administration Council? You have to be a member of the board, don't you think? And someone will say, "This is the law." And we say: for in this house we do not exactly admit the argument, but if the function of this house is something, it is just to change the law. Let us therefore leave what the law says, let us speak of the propriety of this law; let us talk of the profile of the spectator's patron. And for that purpose, if the law is to be changed, let us change it, for it is in our power to change it. Let us not, again, conform the law to the people, but to the law of the people. We know that the majority of the members of the Council of the Administration are of the party, and therefore we doubt whether the President of that place is able to fulfil the proper order. We would say no; for, as you know, the members of the Council of Administration are generally members appointed by political parties, and are members of political parties; then we believe that the figure of the patron of the public cannot fall into one member of a political party. And we have a lot of examples. We have a lot of examples in the nation. "Radio Television Esaño, for example, and for many cases, there may be no pattern or example best, but we think that, in this matter, there are more advanced than we are... Radium Television Express, President of the Corporation, nominates the figure of the patron of the audience, who will be responsible for it. But the choice is made first, and once, at least, amongst the professionals of the place; and in words, the regulation says: "El candidato sera elegido, prefectemente entre proes de Radio Televisión Spaño de reconocida traycera, preligio, criteio y credilidad." In any case, he'll be a reporter of that house who's called Radius Television's Protector or Ele. In the Catalunia itself, the Catalan Radio television also assigns a permanent character to the protector of the audience. In his functions, among several other resources, he has a very active three-part separate website to direct his relationship to the client; the section of the consuls, to direct his convictions, and to regulate technical matters. There are a thousand extensors in the nation. We believe that ETB, at this moment, has remained behind all this, but we believe that this discussion and the discussion, in the course of this discussion, is also discussed in the Administration Council, and we believe that we must make use of this time, so that we invite you to take the best of all the thousands of people, as in the nation, from the thousands of Dictators, and from every one of them, even at EIB, in the best possible figure of the spectator, to be the most effective and positive of the citizens. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u79	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, good noon to all. Basque Socialists believe it's a necessary need to integrate EIB's reform, and we know that this reform will lead to a change of the law of the creation of the organization. This reform would improve the current law, and give the law of the Euskal Radio Television to the modernization. Act No. 8/1998 of 27 March 1998 amending the Law on the Establishment of Public Entities Radio Televisión Vasca, in its article 7, amending article 10 of the original law, and in its third point, states that "the President of the Board of Directors shall be the defender of the viewer and shall receive, process and respond as many complaints, suggestions and proposals as the citizens may direct in relation to the functions assigned to the public entity and its societies, in accordance with the terms established by regulations". The fact is that, during these years, this regulatory development has not taken place, but it is also true that in this legislature the Committee on Rules of Procedure has been operating intensively, especially since January 2015. Representatives of the members elected on the proposal of the political groups present in the Council and of a representative of the entities and associations represented in the Council participated in this committee. The work of this committee has been commendable, and, while respecting the role of the Council in this matter, I will only say that I hope that the EITB Governing Council will shortly adopt the draft regulation, which broadly develops the role of the EITB television, radio and Internet user advocacy. We do not object to reviewing and improving the figure of the user's advocacy, but the law clearly states that it is a function of the president, so these changes would entail amending the law, and I think we are all aware that at this time it would be quite impossible to do so. For the moment, we think that the urgent thing is to make known to all Basques and Basques who have a channel to make their complaints, suggestions and proposals, which we think will be many, given the levels of disability that are being reached, especially in ETB, because we are convinced that citizens are interested in the money with which this public service of radio-television is financed being translated into a programming that deserves their attention or that offers prestige. I believe that this same citizen would be interested if these budgets were to collaborate with the Basque audiovisual industry in the generation of quality products, something that has not done this direction, and has not even tried, because the bulk of this chapter is spent on producers who work more as labour subcontractors to carry out programs, many of which could be done by the professionals of the house. Frankly, I think that, if the figure of the defender of the user should be known, he would receive a multitude of complaints about how the information is addressed, because I am convinced that many do not feel recognized in the calls that are elaborated with criteria that interest the nationalist parties; I will not even say that the nationalist citizenship, which, beyond their feelings of identity, is also interested, like the non-nationalists, in unemployment, housing or inequality and in the proposals that there are to change things. And all these things that interest citizens are another model of public radio-television. This is what some, especially the Socialists, have been repeating throughout the legislature, eager to try to correct the course. It is not political criticism that has deteriorated ETB; what has deteriorated ETB is that Basques and Basques have stopped watching their TV. The deterioration comes because the management sowed from mines the field of trust with the workers' representatives. And, when we get to this point, let's think well, at last, let's admit, even those who had to wait until last Monday to do so, that we have to change the model. We regret the time wasted, because it has only contributed to making the hole bigger, but if we manage to compromise the will of all parties to address this reform, we can end up offering some light. And the empowerment of the ETB user advocate is another element of our commitment to a modern ETB, adapted to the new needs and demands of citizens, which works as a real public service; an objective, competitive, efficient ETB, which has as one of its basic objectives to meet the socio-linguistic reality; which respects the principle of equality, political, religious and cultural pluralism; an EITB that moves away from political junctures, and focuses on quality and differentiated supply. That it bet on the skills of its professionals and that it be the engine of the Basque audiovisual industry, with a more agile business structure and professional leadership, that it does not lose the sense of the public and the need for permanent accountability to society. This is our alternative, which we presented to Basque society and to all political groups over a year ago. Mr Urruzuno, your initiative has not been used to create the user's advocacy, which is already created; but, at least, it is possible that from today many more people will know that there is and can raise their contributions and complaints to this advocacy. I am satisfied that today we have helped a part of the citizenry know its right to contribute to improving a public service that we pay for among all. We hope that, following the adoption of the regulation by the EITB Board of Directors, the user's advocacy will be boosted, and that the necessary reform, which will have to come – of course, in the next parliamentary term – will consolidate this figure and adapt it to the new times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u81	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u82	Thank you, President. A success, a transactional that will change the history of our lives, a transactional that will change the history of EITB. Something extraordinary, a success of this Parliament, and that we do not all work as much as Mr Iturrate. But, yes, we discussed the same thing we discussed five years ago, and today it is a success that at least Basque citizens can know that there is this advocacy, as it is contained in the Law on Creation of EITB. Finally, we, of course, are moving away from this compromise, because we have proposed an amendment that we think is the root of the problems that EITB has, and therefore we did not even want to talk about the issue, but rather to raise what I think is a fundamental, of course urgent, requirement, such as the EITB reform, the comprehensive EITB reform. It is good that this is put forward by the appropriate group, but I believe that, in the end, we have also demonstrated with this initiative, and with this compromise that you have signed, that we are virtually finished with a lost legislature to promote the comprehensive reform of EITB. For this reason, this compromise seems to us to be a joke, which basically serves no purpose, and I, who deeply respect this Parliament, humbly believe that this Parliament should be in order to achieve – let us say – much more ambitious objectives. Aralar presented an initiative, in February 2011, for the creation of the viewer's advocate and the independent listener of the EITB bodies. In February 2011, and today we are in June 2016. And I read in the press of 22 February 2011 that "the Governing Council of the Socialist Party, at its meeting today, has taken this decision by believing that the current law guarantees both the independence and the representation of the interests of citizens through their parliamentary representatives." In other words, the Government had shown its unfavorable view of the proposed law registered by Aralar. "In the opinion of the Basque Government, the presidency of the Board of Directors of this institution, which is appointed by the Basque House, exercises the defence of these interests. The Basque Government has also taken the view that the amendment put forward by Aralar is of a very timely nature, so it is considered" – you see – "more appropriate to attend to the deliberations of the paper that Parliament has launched in the EITB supervisory committee, to know whether there is a deeper amendment of the law". Five years after that initiative, we are still discussing a matter that should be overcome, and finally, when what we really should have done already – and promoted – it should have been the comprehensive reform of EITB. Therefore, what our whole amendment proposes is that this Parliament commits itself "to developing urgently and as a matter of priority the work of the special parliamentary committee for the indispensable reform of the EITB. This special committee will present an opinion with the conclusions before the end of the current session, and it will decide on the future model of Basque public television." Of course, there is certainly no time now, but it is that this amendment in its entirety we recorded on 9 March of this same year, and moreover this Parliament agreed, on 7 May of last year, "the creation of a special committee to lay the foundations for the reform of EITB, a committee which should be set up before 31 December 2015 and which should present an opinion with the conclusions before the end of the first quarter of 2016 in order to undertake the reform initiatives". None of this has been done: neither has the committee been set up, nor have we met, nor have we made progress in the necessary reforms with regard to EITB, nor anything at all. Weeks go by, months go by, and matters that are priorities, that are urgent, that are important, are being put aside. As can be, by the way, all that has to do with the Rules of Procedure of this House. We are presenting a number of initiatives (103, if I recall correctly) to amend the Rules of Procedure of this House. The Committee on the Rules of Procedure has, for the past two and a half years, met only once. Is this the parliamentary baggage we can offer Basque citizens? It certainly seems regrettable to us. That is why we say that what is needed is a comprehensive reform of EITB, depoliticizing it, professionalizing it... so that it can meet the objectives of any public medium of communication: veracity, objectivity, independence, plurality, pluralism. This is what any means of communication must do, and especially, and in our case, EITB, which today continues to be at the service of nationalism, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. By the way, more than a year ago, this Parliament called for the resignation of the Director-General of EITB; nothing has been done on this issue. He hasn't insisted on it again. The Basque Government does not fulfil the parliamentary mandate, nor does the Director-General of EITB, and even one of those groups that requested the resignation of the Director-General of EITB, a year later, present an initiative asking what things to that Director-General of EITB. Finally, we too, even though Mr Iturrate says that we work little, although I am the most active parliamentarian according to the statistics – I don't know if official, but certain – we also present an initiative to amend the law, to reform the EITB, to change the election, the way of electing the Director General of EITB, to depolitize the EITB Board of Directors, to resize it, and voted against it, too, by the Basque Nationalist Party. Finally, the most important thing for us, more than this matter, is to proceed as soon as possible to reform in full the EITB. Depoliticize it, professionalize it, that really works like a public service. To this day, EITB remains in the hands of Basque nationalism, the government, the Basque Nationalist Party and also the Abertzale left. This is what needs to be changed, rather than creating advocates for the listener. This is the best way to defend the citizen, to defend the listener and to defend those we see EITB. Let it really be a public and quality service, rather than at the service of the Basque nationalists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u83	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Uribe Housevary, representative of the Eubertarians, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, good noon to all. Well, I think that's what you said. Last year, in the Administration Council, a staff formed for the internal rules of the Administration. Considering that the President of the Council of Administration performs the defense of the audience, which, as it is natural, has been treated on that business. He's been treated, and we're so close that the Administration Council will appreciate its approbation with one mouth on his inner rule. From that point on, because it's an abnormal, and you will understand, Monsieur Urununo, those who are working at the Administration Council have considered as a starting-point what the law says. And you mentioned how in88 the 82th law changed, and there more figures were determined by the watchers' defense, I should say. Well, what you plan is look forward to is the figure you'd like to be. Before you discuss that, let me tell you that I don't think it's right to say there's no defense. There is a Defensor, because the law foresees it, because it fixes it, and has done the defence. We may agree that the formation of the internal rule is derived from this, and that we must give this figure to the knowledge of the text which we have agreed on. That's clear. And maybe it has to be his part at the EIB site, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. Therefore, I think, we are all conscious, and soon all will be corrected. But wait, it's been. There's been that figure, and he's worked, and well, there may be testimony in this Chamber too. I will tell you, until now, in the last three months, that I have had the direction or the presidence of the Council of Administration, and three cases. And I didn't stop with my arms folded. So, there's that figure, there's it, and he's working. Then it's another thing that we have to make it known, and that, as I say, it's a figure to appear on the website, etc., etc., etc. I would like to add, too, that the differences, the complaints, and even that, to Mr. Unzalus, are not restricted by the history of EIB, to the defence of the beholders. Ye are conscious: On TV and radio, including microphones, phone phones, they're once texted, and even at the present day, there's also new communications technology.... I mean, all these resources, all these tools, have been open, and from that the professionals of EIB get the suggestions, complaints, and congratulations. Mr. Unzalu, you're on the phone, I don't know if they're called EITBra, what I mean is that they also congratulate themselves, not only complaints and complaints and complaints and complaints. Well, that's allowable, but congratulations. And if you follow the radios and TVs... I said, Mr. Unzalu, not only complaints, but also congratulations from the professionals of EIB, those other instruments. Then, from that point on, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, what you're planning, Mr. Urruzuno, you can go for a walk, but with all its complications. All the complications. I'd tell you, in that sense, if you do an inquest, I don't know how well the defense of televisiion Esaño is known. I'd question that. So we've got what's in hand. The Administration Council is doing a great job and it's done it. Soon he will have his own internal rule, and there he penetrates into the figure of the defense, and I believe he will be positive and useful to all. Later, as they say in English, Mr. Uruzuno, we will see. We'll see. The future isn't written. So we'll see. And then, then, there are people who, in fact, take advantage of the journey to basically, Mr Unzalu, because trying, I don't know, to clean up their bad consciences (their bad consciences, yes, very bad, very bad consciences), now with the adalid of integral reform, etc., etc., when I believe that then in practice they maintain an attitude that is basically false and hypocritical. False and hypocritical. And I think Mr. Maneiro remembered her, even if it was succinctly. Indeed, when you ruled with the support of the People's Party, you had in the basic agreement – Mrs. Llanos, right?, you know him well –..., you had in the basic agreement the idea of law reform. At the same time, we had an open paper, and it was the attitude of the People's Party and the Socialist Party that led to that paper being closed, and throughout the previous legislature they did not proceed to that which you had inscribed as an idea and as a purpose in the basic agreement. But then, already in this legislature, pretending to remain the adalides of the reform of EITB, etc., etc., etc.; finally the constitution of a special commission is approved, and you, who have the presidency, do not convene it. Don't call her... So, do you understand that... To those facts that come from the past, we could also add, in fact, the proposed amendment of the law made by Mikel Basabe, which Mr. Maneiro has already reported, and he has commented on what the Government has responded to that proposal. Then you will understand, Mr Unzalu, that, well, I have no choice but to say that your attitude is profoundly hypocritical; it is false and of pure postureum. As you know, Mr. Uruzuno, you know educæ and we have insisted on it all over; it is always one of the principal principles of our EITB self-organization, most important for us to create a common circle of euscal, which the Basques, among others, have a visible and public communication of the Internet, in short, of which many of us can count our reality with full freedom, because we also want to have a communication of our own, and which is the public nature of the internet, which is related to us in this case the public. It's our reality and reality that surrounds us all over the world. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u84	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Egun on the guttioi brerriro. Well, let's talk about EITB again, for the second time in a week. The truth is that we talk more about EITB than what you see EITB, because we really talk a lot, but to see, you see, you see less and less. Of course, Mr Maneiro, and the other speakers who have put him on the table, the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, who from the People's Party, from the People's Group, we have always believed that a comprehensive reform was appropriate; that is why he was in the basic agreement. But in the previous legislature it was convenient; now it is essential. I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm-I'm- And I will tell you why it is essential: because in this legislature, more than ever, the goal has been achieved, to make, with the money of all Basques, a television made by nationalists, only for nationalists. As Amatiño said, an abertzale project, made by abertzales and after an abertzale struggle. That's what you EITB have become. And the figure of the spectator's advocate, which we extend to the listener, to the Internet user of EITB, we understand it as inherent in the public character of Euskal Irrati Telebista. It is true that this figure is contemplated in the law, but I give reason to Mr Urruzuno: there are many Basques who do not know that this figure exists, many, many. And you said that you, as president, had to respond to a number of complaints. It is because they have arrived at EITB and have referred them to you, because, according to the law, you must answer, but I doubt that the complaints proposed directly have said "to the EITB viewer's advocate". For it will be the four Basques who know it, because I assure you that this figure exists is not something world-wide known, no matter how much the Basques are the best in the world. And it is true that it was established in the law that the figure had to be regulated, that it has not been done so far, and that in that regulation it does appear and it does develop. It is a figure, as has been said here, created in different media or by media groups, precisely to offer the possibility to send, receive, process or respond complaints, suggestions, proposals, with the aim of realizing that right of citizenship to receive, from the public media, truthful, plural and independent information and also a dignified, formative and participatory entertainment. But to do this – I insist once again – it is necessary to promote transparency, which is known that this figure exists, to enable this direct relationship between the users and professionals of EITB, in order to improve the quality of programming. As in other public television stations, the advocate will have to respond to the comments and complaints of the users – provided that certain conditions are met, of course – and it will also be the person who requests the necessary explanations and the person who issues an assessment to the person who established that contact. We also believe that the human rights defender should encourage citizens to make use of precisely that criticism, that reflection, that allows for a quality public service and that makes it possible to explain what is being done. Because a public multimedia group that ensures respect for ethics and journalistic independence, that works for the quality of its contents and corrects errors, is a means that generates trust. And right now, right now, EITB doesn't generate it. Much of the audience in the Basque Country today does not have that confidence put in the EITB group. And it has become clear here, in the Monday committee: everyone, including the Basque Nationalist Party, acknowledged that a comprehensive reform of EITB is necessary. The myth has fallen, the myth has fallen: already everyone recognizes, we recognize, that an integral reform of EITB is necessary – and I come back to the beginning – because it cannot be that a television paid with the taxes of all citizens is a means that collects only the concerns and interests of some. We have a television that does not respect the pluralism of Basque society, a sectarian television, in which party interests have replaced the interests of the Basques; that confuses the interests of Basque society with those of the party that supports the Government; that always contracts with the same producers, regardless of the audience result of the programmes that these producers have made. A television whose audiences are in free fall and they seem not to worry. Because what is not to be received is that, when the Board of Directors asks for hearings, the director of EITB gets stuck in her position, doesn't give an explanation of what she's going to do to improve the hearings, and that the only thing she says is, "You're asking for my resignation." That was the only answer he gave. That's not the direction of a public environment. That is why, of course, a comprehensive reform of the EITB model is necessary, as was decided in the committee this Monday. And probably in this comprehensive reform, different formulas can be put forward, as Mr Urruzuno said, than is foreseen at this time by the spectator's defender. Nor is it incompatible, Mr Maneiro, with the fact that, as this comprehensive reform of EITB is necessary, work is being done in the current Governing Council to give a way out to that figure of the spectator's defender, so that it can be better known and that complaints or proposals can be addressed to it. Because, really, the EITB council will not be renewed until 2017, and, therefore, it is possible, until then, to carry out that role, because we have already been made clear that the comprehensive reform of EITB..., the legislature is running out, and it is not possible. It seems that in order to present certain laws – and I see here the Security Advisor – such as the reform of the Basque Police Act, although there is nothing left of the legislature, they can be presented, and they could even be approved if we put all the batteries and we are riding in a hurry, but, yes, comprehensive reform of EITB, no, that does not give time. Just for a few things. That is why I say to you that, as it seems that the comprehensive reform of EITB is like the decree – which was our first item on the agenda – of the special employment centres, which is little less than the tables of the law of Moses and which takes a long time to make it... So, at least, go to work in this legislature and move forward on the issue of the defender. That is why we will vote in favour of the amendment that has been agreed. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u86	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing on the answers, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u87	Well, as Mrs. Llanos has given me the right, so I'll be right for her too. "Es que es el problema, que no se ve ETB; hablamos más de ETV que verlo, equidentemente." And that's why we're bringing this initiative, and that's why we took three more initiatives on Monday to the Control Committee, and we're doing it from that perspective because we think it's a public media that has its function and that's just to improve it. With regard to this subject, as to the protector of the spectator, there is a dispute. The fact is that the same character, the same character, is very far from what such a figure has at other times. Why? Because it's attributed to her in EIB as an additional responsibility. This person is the President of six months, and we'll give him an additional responsibility for the protective audience. And there is no knowledge, which is the problem. There is no knowledge among the people. If there is no knowledge, those functions are not fulfilled. Why is there no knowledge? Because he doesn't have a crew because he doesn't have a budget because he doesn't have any other means. And that's the problem. So when we bring this discussion here today, at least this is what we want to do, put it on the table. Because we know the Administration Council is working on the table right now. And what we're trying to say to the Council Administration is at least... We know what its scope is, we know what its range is, but we think it must be said that at least, looking at the propriety of this figure, looking at its efficientness, it must, for the most part, appreciate it as little as possible whether this person should be a member of the Council of Administration, that is to say, a party must be a member of the parties, or must be a different self-conscious and independent figure. Therefore we rectify in the correction of the medium, without taking away the choice of other definitions in the future. That's what we're asking the Administration Council to do. And then again I repeat to him, each knowing the rules of its own sphere, and each of which is given by its own sphere, we must see in this house what we ought to do in this sense. And in that sense I give my reason to Mr. Maniro, when he says, "que state no ser a la iniciativa que nos va a changer la videa." "Evidentemente, evidente..." And I, as a member of the Basque People gathering... And don't take this badly, no me sleep a mal, but if you weren't one, instead of being 17, en vez de unlicativa, hubirousos presentado unapolicion de ley contigo ías disportos a firmaros, pero, ciaverso, and we'd change the law with you. But at the moment, there is no condition in this house to change that law. He's not here. and when I have spoken to Mr. Uribe and Mr. Unzalus, they hold the law. I understand: Mr. Universal House-and they say in DNA that we must keep the old law (God, Zarra...) and keep the law. And therefore I have said, that I do not approve of it in this house at first, because it is the chief thing in this house; to change the laws. Then we believe that we put this matter on the table, that we make a suggestion to the Council of Administration, and even here, in our opinion, that it ought to produce other options for us to be the protector of the beholder, or of the seer of the past. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u88	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Basque Socialists, Mr. Unzalus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u89	Mr Uribe-Etxebarria and Mr Maneiro, you agree today – and many other times – on two things: one, you listen to yourselves exclusively, and the second that you have coincided with today is that you have come today to cover up your miseries. Mr Maneiro for not being present in the debate on Monday, where he talked about what he wanted today, and has come to bring him, and you, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, because it seems that he was confused, or not, or also made an absolutely hypocritical act, saying that a reform of the law has to be made, and then it seems that he has been eager to see it corrected. But, well, let's get to the point, because since it's said there's a special commission and it hasn't been convened... Here, of course, when things are said in half, then, you don't tell the whole truth. Mr Maneiro, look, apart from everything you have said that was approved in that plenary, there is one thing that you have not mentioned, and that is that there was also a demand that the UPV make a study to guide, to create a methodology for this comprehensive reform, a reform that I think is worth doing in a paused way and with a good methodology. And then what happens is that that work, which was previous, because without that work the work of the special committee could not begin, that previous work was given to this Parliament in February. And you all know that in that work it is said that it takes eighteen months to fully develop it. And you should know... "Wait for you, Mr. Luke Uribe-Etxebarria, wait for you, wait for you," you should know that it is said that this work should begin with sociological studies, surveys and analyses. That's the previous thing. And you, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria – and that is hypocritical – on Monday, you could have accepted the first point of my amendment, which said precisely this: to urge the Basque Government to prepare these surveys, those work that allows, when the special committee is put to work, to speed up and speed up its work. But you, I don't know why, went to the comprehensive reform, which I congratulated you! And you, instead of saying that surveys are being carried out and mechanisms of citizen participation activated, preferred to sign and vote "The Basque Parliament reiterates the need to address a comprehensive reform of EITB in order to achieve greater efficiency in the provision of the public service of public radio and television". This is what you, instead of starting with the work, are blaming me, that you are blaming the socialists that we have not started... You didn't want to start with those jobs, and yet you did a double mortal leap, and this is the first time you recognize that comprehensive EITB reform needs to be addressed. It is signed by you, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria. So, just like you get to the top of cynicism and you tell me that what you wanted to sign is not what it says and you wanted to do another, but you will get to the top of cynicism – because cynic is usually enough, but you would get to the top – if you tell me that what you signed doesn't mean that. And what you did, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, was to drive the previous direction of EITB, and, in this, to hinder absolutely any step in the direction of reform. These two things have done: to drive the work that the previous EITB leadership wanted to do, and to hinder any modernization and reform movement in EITB. That has been their attitude in the previous legislature and in this one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u90	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u91	Yes, thank you, President. This transactional is a patch whose impact is going to be very limited and therefore we are not going to support it. We're going to abstain. It's no good for too much; they divert attention. The important thing, as I said before, is to do everything possible to ensure that, as soon as possible, the law is reformed and that the EITB is fully reformed. Therefore, what we urgently ask is for the Director-General of EITB to resign, as requested more than a year ago by a majority of this Parliament. Some of these groups have already forgotten about this issue, look elsewhere, give victory to the Basque Nationalist Party. We reiterate what we said a year and a half ago with the rest of the groups: you have to resign Mrs Iturbe, for putting EITB at the service of the Basque Nationalist Party and of Basque nationalism as a whole. We therefore insist until the end of the parliamentary term on these approaches. This special commission set up for the comprehensive reform of EITB should have been set up before, beyond the work of the UPV. There was a specific parliamentary mandate, it should have raised its conclusions during the first quarter of 2016, and the reality is that it has not been done. It is therefore intended to depoliticize and professionalise it. Weeks pass, months pass, years pass, and EITB remains at the service of nationalism. And some groups in this House, which have more than one Member, have done absolutely nothing to reverse that situation. And I am obviously referring to the Socialist Group. When he could, he wouldn't. And now it looks like he wants to, and it's obviously too late. Because you ruled for four years and basically didn't change anything about EITB, even though we insisted here, through initiatives, so that you could depoliticize, professionalize, and actually exercise as a public service. And, as EITB is at the service of nationalism, the bad news is not that little is seen, but that the few who hear or see it are not aware of it. That's the bad news. Therefore, we reiterate ourselves in our approaches. What is the misery of the Socialist Group? That the comprehensive reform of EITB is still pending. That you ruled for four years and did not move a finger to change absolutely nothing. That Mrs. Iturbe is still the CEO of EITB. You supported that appointment, and we are already seeing what the results have been. You, therefore, are also responsible for the situation we are in. EITB, Mr Unzalu, so many years later, remains in the hands of Basque nationalism. Congratulations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u92	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Uribe-Etxebarria jauna, zurea da hitza. URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: President. Well, Mr Unzalu, for the sake of parliamentary courtesy: I don't qualify your person; I qualify or describe your attitudes. For the sake of parliamentary courtesy, I say, for what you have told me. If you can correct, then correct. And the other day in the committee ended – and the president is here – by asking a somewhat rhetorical but quite real question. And it was if I was a little lost, or is it that we have some sort of election soon. And we're in the middle of an election campaign, as he says. And, well, I drop it here too, even if it's in an ironic way. Mr. Uruzuno, yes, I understood what you said before, but the Council of Administration has no ability to make such decisions, but if that's what the law has to allow him a little. For if the old Law prove any thing, it is 19. that a people existed here before the age of ages, and that a people here has not been created for the 19th time. at the end of the century. And I don't know if we're positivatives, as well as positists, law-plants, but, well, when you're in organizations, you do it. I totally agree, Mrs Llanos, and in that we are, in which we must make known, we must indeed make known the figure, and it seems that, when we are moving in a certain direction, because, I do not know, there is some kind of short mental circuit that causes us to start criticizing. If that's what we're going to do! Let's get better! And, anyway, what you can't deny to me, Mrs Llanos (and Mr Unzalu), is that you had the opportunity to change the law of EITB in the last legislature, when you ruled by absolute majority and it was also a preview of the basic agreement, and you didn't carry it out. And, of course, they don't carry it out when they have the possibility, they have the instruments, they have the ability to do it, and they will understand that then it's not worth going out and saying, shitting that yes, that we have to reform, that we have to reform, that we have to reform the law, when you had the possibility and didn't do it. We in the previous legislature did what we did was understanding and proposals. And I can show you a folder full of proposals. Not like yours, which you usually throw high and what you want is, practically... as I once told you, your star proposal is to introduce political commissioners into EITB. But, well... Let us talk, if you like, about a debate that did not exist. Because, curiously enough, much is being said here about a debate, but there was no discussion on that point, about comprehensive reform. Look, we have never refused to address an analysis or reform of what needs to be reformed. Never. Because, as you can imagine, Mr Unzalu, this House is not the first time that this has been raised; I mean that the law itself has already been studied at other times. What happens is that it's done in good condition. It's made in condition. The law is studied, it is reformed... as it was in the year 89 and as in the subsequent reform. What we didn't see – and we still don't see – is the right climate. Differ, therefore, the background and form. Basically, there is no problem in getting into that debate. As regards the form, I would like to reiterate today that, from the point of view of the political climate, it is not at all appropriate to be able to deal with a reform of this kind in an area as important as that of EITB. It doesn't exist. Because, among other things, you still have a public explanation pending, and that's why, after placing your trust in the current Director General, year after year, by the art of birlibirloque – or explain, if not, what the real reasons are – you withdraw your confidence. In that climate it's impossible. And, look, the Director General here, on more than one occasion, has explained the short-term aspects that the audiovisual sector is experiencing, and indeed all public television. Secondly, what degree of influence has the regulatory framework had; a regulatory framework for which you and you are responsible in Madrid, which has favored private television over the years. Why, if not, did Mr. Zapatero decide to remove the advertising of Spanish Television? Why? To favor public television? Budgets have gone down, too. It has a public character, and we want it to remain public in nature, and therefore, when it comes to programming and when it comes to carrying out certain programmes, it has its limits. Monday we're going to be asked, so I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u93	Loved joan... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APPALATEGI jaunak:... that if women's sport etc., etc.! But I, as I once told you, want a consistency between the requirement that you fulfill your public role and then the requirement for hearings. Be consistent. More than consistent, loyal to EITB. Loyal. They're not.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u94	Loved joan... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: And the way of consuming citizens, of course, has also changed. Look, Mr. Unzalu, the house can't start on the roof. Start... Mr. Unzalu, if you take care of me, I'm running out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u95	No, you're done! URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: Yes? Is it over yet? Bakar bat test. [[Barres]] One sentence, Mr Unzalu: you can't start the house on the roof. To start with the Basque Government doing such surveys through Irekia, etc., etc., is not only a snag, but also contradicts the methodology proposed by the UPV itself. You did not even dignify yourself in convening a meeting to receive that report. Not for that, not to discuss what we were going to do...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u96	Eskerrik asko, Uribe-Etxebarria jauna... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: Less pose, less falsehood and less hypocrisy, Mr Unzalu!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u98	Thank you again, Madam President. First of all, mattify and clarify one thing to Mr. Urruzuno. When I said that there was more talk about EITB than what was seen by EITB, it was not a criticism of the presentation of its proposal at all. That is, I think that, since the comprehensive reform – and now I will go to it – seems very difficult, because it seems to me that making proposals that are trying to improve seems entirely appropriate, especially in a figure – and I share with you what I said in your first intervention – which is not known, which, however much it may seem here that is at the head of the whole world and everyone knows, is not so. Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, you did not miss one of the nationalist myths in your speech. Not one! First of all, guilt... It's weird that Madrid didn't have it! It is the Socialist Government and the Government of the People's Party that blame EITB for seeing little, for the quality of EITB to be poor. Hey, if you were independent, I don't know who you were gonna blame! I'm really telling you. I'm really telling you. Because taking your own faults with you isn't going, eh! And they said you can't start the house on the roof. Man, on the roof or on the bases, but start it. And you tell me about the possibility that was in the background document. Yes, it was in the basic document, and that reason, combined with many others, led to the withdrawal of the confidence of the People's Party in the Socialist Party and the convening of the elections. Of course, there were issues in that basic document that were not met. But, look, you have fulfilled – I told you – all the myths, and now I'm going to tell you the next one. We really have different concepts, sometimes understanding each other is difficult, when the definitions that are given are different. Because to say that you had with the previous EITB leadership an understanding attitude, really, really... Look at the definition of understanding in the dictionary, because I don't think it's what we understand by understanding. You used all the nationalist media as a ram against Mr.Surio's leadership, with audiences infinitely better than those we have now, than the program that the most audience has is questioned in a blog by Mr.Anasagasti himself. I mean. And you're really telling me that you had an understanding attitude? Hey, really, that's cynicism! To say that you had an understanding attitude is cynicism, as little. And I told him that EITB is getting less and less visible, that it also has to guarantee the profitability of public money, because it is paid with the taxes of all citizens, and it has to have a minimum quality and it has to have a few hearings, and it has to account for some results. What's not worth saying is "Request my resignation," because, on the other hand, what's the point? Because Mrs Iturbe thinks, "I don't care if my performance or my leadership seems bad to the councillors, the political parties, who have asked in the House..., I don't leave. I'm stuck here and I'm not leaving." With this, to ask for resignation, then, the truth. We could ask you again, Mr Unzalu, over and over again, but we were going to have you over and over again until the end. Because recognizing mistakes of your own doesn't work for you. In addition, the Basques want to see a television on which everyone feels reflected, not just the nationalists. Because you are turning EITB, you intend to make it the spiritual reserve of the Covenant of Estella. Why, really, is it that how are the debate programmes made?, how are the information made? Well, looking at the front pages of the nationalist media! And part of the Basques is not reflected in EITB, it is not reflected in EITB... That's right, your taxes serve to pay EITB, like those of those who are reflected. And it is necessary, of course, that comprehensive reform is necessary. And you say it's that what happens is that there's not the right climate. Don't be fooled, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria; don't make me false. What you see is that you don't have the votes, what you see is that you don't have the majority enough to pull out the EITB model that you want to pull out. That's what's going on! It's not the weather, it's the votes. And, I'm sorry to tell you, we trust the next most complicated one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u99	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH, the Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors signed by the Eucalists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u100	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Euscal Socialists made the same proposal as the legislatures, about making a plan for an early diagnosis of C. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Roncal, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u101	Congressmen, good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing to this Parliament today new measures to boost the government, after analysing and evaluating some of the previous policies relating to the treatment of hepatitis C patients. According to a study carried out by the UPV on the management of health in the different autonomous communities and on the treatment of hepatitis C patients, it has concluded that, in general, Basquedi has implemented to a lesser extent policies of cutbacks and privatization, but, however, when analyzing the provision of health services to the sick population has not been the same for all. It has not been equitable, it has not been universal, it has not been of quality. There is a very clear data, the expenditure on drugs for the treatment of hepatitis C: if in the national average of the autonomous communities the expenditure per person was 24,10 euros (tomen reference, 24,10), in Euskadi the average expenditure was 10,83 (clear difference!), and that, of the total expenditure on treatment for hepatitis, the average for other autonomous communities was 17% of the total, while in Euskadi it was 8.7. All this, all this expenditure, or this lack of expenditure, this lack of commitment to the group of hepatitis C patients, has been despite the repeated agreements of the parliamentary groups in this House. Of course, the opposition groups. Both UPyD and PP, as well as EH Bildu and PSE, we have agreed to urge the Government on many occasions to offer, to offer the group of patients diagnosed with hepatitis C the same health service that is offered to the rest of the population, that is, a universal, equitable and quality health service, for the whole group of patients. Since this service is not being offered, different groups of patients with hepatitis C virus have been grouped, organized and are presenting motions in different municipalities to ask for their protection (because they already know that the municipality is not responsible for their treatment), and are also carrying out press briefings in those institutions that are favorable to carrying out such action. For example, two press conferences have already been held in Parliament to denounce the unfair situation of hepatitis C patients in Euskadi, highlighting the maximum injustice that is being applied even to the most serious patients, to the patients qualified as F4, of whom, having the highest priority to be cared for and having a commitment from the Basque Government to have completed all treatments with this group by January 2016, there is still a group that has not been cared for. In addition, these platforms, with the data they have, have questioned the data provided by Mr Darpón's department, data on the number of patients in Euskadi. According to Mr Darpón, in the Basque Autonomous Community there are between 2,500 and 2,600 patients with hepatitis C, diagnosed patients. Of course, in other autonomous communities it is also not that treatment has been carried out much more rigorously, but that does not comfort us, because in some communities, in fact, they have behaved in a way similar to that of the Basque Government, in the sense of cutting the curative treatments, being the most striking case that of a Galician patient, who by delay in the supply of the medication died and whose family has resorted, denouncing the Galician health officials to the courts for this unjustified delay in providing the treatment, which is supposed to have led him to death. But today's GNP does not bring again the instance for the government to treat again the entire group of hepatitis C patients, which, as we have said, we have already approved on other occasions, and we have also supported it mostly, because for all groups – of the opposition, at least – the offer to all citizens of health services must have the character of universality, equity and quality. We've already said it. And today, in addition, we ask the Basque Government in our initiative to prioritize prevention, promotion and early diagnosis, as these activities... Anyone who is on the Health Commission, and let's not say the technicians who work in health services, knows that the highest performance for a population is achieved by prevention, promotion and early diagnosis activities. They call them the most cost-effective; that is, at the same cost they achieve the best results. And all these actions directed at the community, proposals and actions well carried out, before the disease appears, are the most appropriate. I will set an example that is not sanitary, but that you will be able to follow me perfectly: the potability of water, the potability of drinking water. After seeing how water pollution (mixtures of faecal water with rain, contamination with minerals, etc.) generated infections and a major morbidity and mortality in populations, the people responsible (not the health officials, but the politicians of these communities) decided to carry out infrastructure works that would ensure drinking water for human consumption. And today no one would understand that, due to lack of resources, a people, or a larger population, would be left to drink non-drinking water for human consumption. Therefore, in line with the defense of projects, programs and actions to be undertaken before the disease is presented, as we do with other pathologies – and, by the way, whose programs we are all very proud of in this community, as we have pointed out before, for all the advantages they offer–, that is why we ask the Government today to address an early diagnosis plan to know the magnitude of the program, the magnitude of the problem, the total number of patients diagnosed and pending treatment; but we also want to know the total number of infected but not yet ill patients, not known as sick, not diagnosed as sick, so that, once we know the full size of the program, we can implement the appropriate treatments in the early phase, and that in this way all well infected patients with hepatitis C, or even patients with hepatitis C, benefit so that they do not advance their disease, so that we improve their quality of life, to avoid new infections of the disease (because these infected patients can, in turn, be outbreaks of infection), to improve the sustainability of the health system. Because the sooner we offer treatment, the less intense it will have to be; we will avoid worsening, we will avoid hospital income, we will avoid liver failure, we will avoid the need for liver transplantation, we will also avoid liver cancers. And all this will be good for the public health system. And also, for each infected patient, we will avoid passing on to the sick patient. We also have examples of similar programs! In breast cancer we have chosen a population sector that does not meet the requirements for entry into the global programme, and once risk factors have been identified, that particular group is also included in the programme. In other words, in addition to early diagnosis programs for a particular population, we are able to incorporate complementary populations for risk factors. And that's what we're asking in this case. Because we all know that the development of the disease takes a long time. Since there is infection, since there is first contact with the hepatitis C virus, many years may pass until the disease is manifested. Well, well, we want at that time, when the patient is not yet sick but has risk factors, to be diagnosed. And we also ask, and we have agreed with the other groups, that this plan should come to Parliament, for the members of the Committee on Health's knowledge and for possible further improvements. And we have also asked for something that is absolutely reasonable: that primary care physicians and specialists be trained so that they can detect these risk factors and thus facilitate the sending or incorporation into the early diagnosis program of these groups of patients – as I say – who have risk factors. That is all for today, and nothing more than thanking all groups for the flexibility, the ability they have had to collaborate, to understand that this is a programme that goes for the citizens, that goes for the sick, and that we can all agree and agree to do something in their favor. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Blanco, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u103	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. Today, we won't talk about the patients we're dealing with at the moment, we've talked a lot, and we have to say that we've achieved little. To-day we shall discuss a plan for the early diagnostic of C; but, indeed, there is not much to be disputed because we have come to a great agreement. No doubt the treatment of persons who are properly diagnosed is of primary importance, but it is just as important to have an early diagnosis. It is necessary, in our opinion, to know as soon as possible the number of persons with hepatitis, in order to carry out two principal ends: To avoid treating and infecting before being alarmed. That's just what you get at the first point of the middle term we've signed. On the other hand, we introduced this just-assed proposal to you, before we had planned it and started all the necessary measures, to introduce it into the legislature-that is to say, to the second point of the middle course. And finally, special training programs related to the "C" and addressed to professionals. The middle term is considered appropriate, so of course we signed it. And what we're asking for today is in one way or another in the four major lines that appear in a Darpón department's order, but it's obvious that it's not exactly what it's about to do. The first strategic line has not been completed because we do not now know the exact number of people who suffer sickness. Not only that: the numbers vary, and although we have asked the chief physician more than once, we have not been able to reach him. Mrs Roncal has already mentioned the situation of the sick and the sick diagnosed today, also the patients themselves who have come together and different initiatives that have been taken in this House. We just want to make a point and remember that right here in this Parliament, we are asking the government to bring to the House, within three months, a specific timetable to care for all people with hepatitis C. Because we will not tire of saying that we must know the total number of patients that exist, and it is also very important to know the degree of progression of their disease, because today we do not know, moreover, in what state these people are incorporated into the treatment. But the deadline has already been met, and the Government has again failed to fulfil a parliamentary mandate. And it is shown that, when a department wants, the government wants, comes to the committee to submit its plans, reports or proposals, and does so at its own request. In the case of the Health Committee, we have seen it on more than one occasion. But it seems that this time this topic is not of interest. The sad thing is that in that first point of the compromise amendment that we have signed we have to mention again the need to know the magnitude, the scope, the census, the number of people sick with hepatitis C. In addition, this early diagnosis plan that we are requesting from the Government is also reflected, in one way or another, in the second strategic line of the plan for the care of hepatitis C. It is objective 2.4, which talks about designing, in the medium and long term, HCV detection programs. We could continue to talk about the four lines that are contained in the strategic plan: the first one has not been fulfilled, the second one also, and the fourth one we do not know. And we say we don't know her because she talks about informing the population about the fundamentals of hepatitis or any infectious disease. Ez dakigu kanpaina komunikatiboa martxan jarri de una ez. Baina, egia esan, ez dugu inon ikusi gaixotasun horren inguruan informatzeko ez kartelik, ez iragarkirik, ezta material pedagogikorik era. Horregatik, zalantzan jartzen dugu ildo strategiko honen betetze mesh. So, fun has his strategic plan to treat people with hepatitis C, but, as we said, four of the strategic furrows don't fit. Or if they're satisfied, he's doing it discreetly because most of the legal teams don't know about it. That's why all the teams have been introduced over and over in this Chamber by one or the other initiative. It's true, today, that the group that supports you has agreed to this half-way, which is the first time in this matter. But we can't deny that he's in a comfortable position. We need to remember that it's three months to make the plan that we're asking you to do it. In three months, the law will be terminated. "Parodo al propiomo gobierno le toque traer planets a tumara, o tenga que cuentas a este Parlamento, que nos encontremos a final de año." Por tan, mouth fimosamos, quedamos muy bien, pero luego ya veremos qué. Mrs. Roncal, the initiative and the arrangement are definitely necessary, so we informed you, and we share it all over. But in this case, we see the glass half empty, because we are sure, as has happened with other enterprises, that this subject will remain in the limbo of the portfolio of things which are not yet in motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. The representative of the American Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good morning to all. As we said here, we discussed this theme several times, and we reported it especially when we applied new equivocations. As I'm saying, we've discussed it several times, and we've come to the agreements, and in those agreements, we've made commitments to this government, the Eusk0, and we've reported the role of the Eukko-Ming, because its attitude was delay. As I said, during this parliamentary term we have discussed this issue on many occasions, but the times we have discussed this matter in this Parliament have been to give the Basque Government an earshake on the delay in the implementation of the new treatments for hepatitis C. Delay in relation to the actions of other autonomous communities, and also delay in particular, given that a national strategic plan for the approach to hepatitis C was developed – driven by the current Minister of Health, Social Services and Equality, Mr Alfonso Alonso – which was the initial umbrella for the autonomous communities to then approve their respective strategies, as happened with the Basque strategy itself. The national strategy for the approach to hepatitis C was carried out by Dr. Rodés, one of the leading authorities in hepatology in Spain, and an expert from the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country was also present on that committee. By the way, this strategy was also unanimously adopted by the Inter-Territorial Council. And it should be remembered that Spain has also been one of the pioneer countries in incorporating medicines, these state-of-the-art medicines that have undoubtedly opened a door to hope for many patients with hepatitis C, a door to hope for the possibility of healing and improving their quality of life. But, as previous speakers have pointed out in Euskadi, unfortunately we have not been pioneers on this issue, and other autonomous communities have taken advantage of the application of these new treatments, which has even led us to say and to report on several occasions by this group, and with regard to the debates discussed, the discrimination suffered by hepatitis C patients in our autonomous community in relation to patients from other autonomous communities. Today we are discussing a more tangential issue of hepatitis C, which is the development of a plan for the early diagnosis of hepatitis C. We agree with the initiative put forward. If we considered it opportune to improve it, and above all an issue that has a specific place in the strategic plan for the approach to hepatitis C, which includes four strategic lines, one of which is prevention, which constitutes one of these strategic lines. And when we talk about prevention in this national strategy for addressing hepatitis C, we talk about prevention in three areas: primary prevention, primary prevention, to reduce the incidence of hepatitis C; secondary prevention (promoting early diagnosis in priority populations); and tertiary prevention, to prevent morbidity and mortality and complications resulting from chronic HCV infection. We consider it appropriate to incorporate a specific reference to training, and it has been considered appropriate by the groups which have promoted the agreement, and therefore we, since this issue has been included, and obviously agreeing to the elaboration of this early detection plan, will vote in favour. As Mrs Roncal said here, early diagnosis programmes have their importance in prevention and treatment at one stage, in an early state of the various diseases, especially in order to improve the quality of life of the sick, to avoid worsening and to avoid mortality. Various early detection programmes for some diseases have been launched in this autonomous community, especially some related to cancer diseases, and they are successful programmes. However, action must also be taken, as we did last week, ordering a study also from the Basque Government to reach, with programmes for early detection of breast cancer, those groups that have the greatest difficulties or those areas where they also have the greatest difficulty in accessing them. Because in the end access also marks equity, which is one of the principles that must govern health care. I therefore believe that the agreement is timely, and, well, let us hope that this time the government will be diligent and we will not have to bring (it would be in the next legislature) such an initiative, already with the government that is set up, obviously. But I am talking about due diligence because it has been a little fruitless for the work of this House in the legislative field to see systematically the breaches in relation to the new treatments and the incorporation of the new treatments in our autonomous community, where we must say, very clearly, that this time we have not been pioneers. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u106	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians, Lord Adarza, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u107	Thank you, ma'am. Good noon, everyone. At the present day, hepatitis is a problem of public health and a challenge for the present health system, for the number of infected friends, for the complexity and specialisation of the organization of the existence required, and new medicines. All this leads to a great amount of health effort in order to ensure a proper attention to the patients. At the same time he guarantees euphora's permanent health system and its fundamental principles: Universality, Equity, solidarity, sainty attention, and the participation of the people. Therefore, it was necessary to implement a strategy for the care of hepatitis C in Euskadi that articulates the structure, organization and funding of the resources of the Euskadi health system, while carrying out a regular and permanent evaluation of the health outcomes of the affected persons, in order to promote, plan and coordinate organizational, care and evaluation activities, in order to ensure adequate care for those affected by hepatitis C. A strategy that has been presented in this House, as you will recall. This strategy is based mainly on four lines of action, each with specific objectives and concrete actions. As for its operational structure, the strategy is based on three committees: the steering committee, the clinical-assistance committee, and the social and citizen participation committee, as well as their coordination unit. Despite the extensive literature on hepatitis C, the initial analysis of the actual situation was not simple, due to the lack of contrasted epidemiological information. On the other hand, many aspects of antiviral therapy are constantly changing. This strategy is therefore subject to continuous review, and as new data or changes occur, it is being updated. I think some spokesperson has confused the ongoing review and the new data and the update with non-compliances. As we already know, hepatitis C is an infectious disease that is predominantly transmitted by blood. In our environment, its transmission has been mainly linked to the health environment (transfusions and medical-surgical acts) and to the consumption of substances by the intravenous route, mostly in the 70s and 80s of the last century. More rarely, transmission can occur in healthcare professionals by accidental exposure to blood, by maternal-foetal transmission or by blood-borne sex. As he said, despite the lack of proven and reliable epidemiological information to develop a strategy, it was necessary, in the beginning, to start from a certain scenario as a starting point, in order to gradually move it closer to reality, in order to achieve the true prevalence of the infection. Since the first effective treatments for hepatitis C appeared in early 2000, Osakidetza has ensured the most appropriate therapy for all people with chronic hepatitis C, based on medical criteria and equity criteria. There are some milestones from that moment on; mainly in 2011, in which the first antivirals appear, the first generation, and in 2014, a great milestone with the new antivirals, the second generation. As in other countries around us, there are several thousand people with this disease in Euskadi, although with different degrees of liver damage. All patients with chronic hepatitis C, monoinfected or co-infected with HIV, are considered candidates for antiviral therapy. Due to the impossibility of performing this treatment for all patients in a short period of time, its incorporation has been carried out in a step-by-step manner. The therapeutic action plan has been developed jointly with Osakidetza specialists who care for patients with chronic hepatitis C, in line with the established criteria, as has been recalled here, by the expert committee of the Ministry of Health. If I would like, in general, before entering into the specific debate on this issue, to talk – as has already been said – about some data and times. Data and times I don't doubt under any circumstances, nor do I think anyone will. Data and times that speak of being pioneers, and data and times that speak of genuine government diligence: In 2014, before the authorization for commercial use of the new antivirals... (are very simple data, moreover), before the authorization for the commercial use of the new antivirals, Osakidetza treated 144 people with them in Euskadi. In 2015, after authorization of antivirals, Osakidetza has treated 1,533 other people (in 2015, at 1,533). And with data from May 16, which made the department public, in 2016 another 799 people affected by this disease have already been treated. That is, 144, 1.533, 799: 2,480 people, approximately, treated with new antivirals in the year and a half. We did not reach year and a half, when the deadline – which has also been remembered here – for the strategy of the state, by the group of experts led by Dr. Rodés, spoke of three years. We're going way ahead of that deadline. We go far ahead of other communities. We are going at a rate of increase of 180 new patients in treatment per month, which will allow us to achieve the objectives set out in the strategy well ahead of schedule. To treat all people, in general, is to treat all people affected by this disease with absolute normality, as is being done, taking into account medical and equity criteria, as is being done. I will now focus on the strategic lines of action, strategic lines that were approved by Order of 14 July 2015, not yet a year ago. A strategy that we see today, less than a year after its adoption, is being broadly complied with with this data, which are public. The strategy for the care of hepatitis C in Euskadi is based on four lines of action. First, determine the magnitude of hepatitis C virus and chronic hepatitis C infection. Secondly, to promote preventive measures. Third, define the therapeutic action plan. And fourth, boost communication, as has already been said. Of these four lines of action, the debate we are facing today focuses on the first strategic line: determining the magnitude of HCV infection and chronic hepatitis C in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and the characteristics of patients and patients. To this end, it is necessary to know the number of people infected, the new infections, the number of people who have developed chronic hepatitis C, and those who are being cared for by the health system at the different stages of the disease. These are the specific objectives of this line. And in order to achieve these objectives, concrete actions are being undertaken that the strategy proposes: a review of the data currently available on people infected with HCV; searches in the different information systems of Osakidetza on people infected with HCV and patients and patients with chronic hepatitis C; and implementation of an information system that collects patients and patients with chronic hepatitis C in follow-up, consultation, and those initiating treatment. These actions to achieve those objectives are the basis of our amendment text, to the text originally proposed by the Socialist Party. And, to tell you the truth, he wasn't far away from him, we weren't far apart from him. The difference was rather formal, by collecting, in our case, the strict reference to our strategy. The amendment of the People's Party was based on a similar basis, although it formally referred to the quantification of the magnitude of the problem, as reflected in its reference to the SNS strategic plan. For this reason, it has been relatively easy – as has been mentioned – to reach agreement at the core of this issue, as reflected in the first point of the text that has been transacted. The text, as has also been said, also contains points 2 and 3, which give rise to other contributions: as the spokesman for EH Bildu has commented, presenting it to the Health Commission, an issue that is customary practice of the department and by all recognized, and the contribution of the People's Party in relation to the training of primary care professionals, an issue that is already being done. It seems to us a good text, in short, and it also collects or is born with a broad consensus and collaboration between the groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u108	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Does someone have to participate in the answer shift? Someone else... ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u109	To say very briefly, Madam President – if I may, from the seat – that the figure of magnitude, if it takes a year to work, I do not understand how we have not come to know it. Because, in fact, on 14 July, they approved a strategy whose first objective is to know the magnitude of the problem. As always, here we talk about everything that is done, but we have the negative part in our portfolio: how much less what is not done, how much more to achieve the total. That has always been our concern. We already know that the department makes its effort, we already know that it puts treatment for patients with hepatitis C. We already know that! What we don't know, we haven't been able to find out all this time, is how many sick people are missing from the department to treat, what economic effort that is going to entail, and what temporary effort. Because we would also like to know the schedule. We do not tell him to do everything to run; we tell him to do it, he has the mandate to do it, and he has to do it programmed and with the resources appropriate to that programming. On the other hand, I would like to thank all the speakers again, because it has indeed been very easy and very pleasant to have reached an agreement. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. After discussion, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors and the Eubertarians, the middle-direction that the teams have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-09.u111	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-nine.
