ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Please, take your seats. Before we begin the subject list, I give you to know that the sixth point in the subject list will be discussed at the second point, and the second point in the sixth. Preceding theme: "To judge once for all of the plots of the meeting of the 14th of April, according to the 92.1 article of the Rule, concerning these as well as the following proposals: "The other bill made by the Socialists of Euscal, about 2016-2010 of EIB's 2016-2019, is to cancel the program agreement. "The other proposal as a team of the Misto-UPyD Laws about quitting EIB's program agreement." The Euscal Socialists, the populars of Euskal and Mistua-UPyD, were a draw at the vote of the middle-line corrections introduced by the teams. [[Berber]] According to the 92.1 article, we're going to make the vote of that correction again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; the abstainments 21st.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u1	The consequence is that, as a draw, it is cancelled. Next, we vote for the full-scale correction set up by the EH Collectors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 21; the opposites are 54; white; 0; abstentions are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u2	So he didn't accept it. And in the end, Eural patriots will vote for the full correction of the contractors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 27; the contrary, 48; white, 0; abscession, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u3	Not accepted. First point in theme list: "Evilation of the Confederation, Security, and Justice Committee, made upon a bill of law to change the Laws of the Emergency Act. Discipline and final resolution. "Merch's representative, Beltán de Heedi, has the word to introduce the bill." Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u4	Thank you. The President of the legislature, the president, the chief of the department, the members of the legislature, good morning. The bill of law of modification for the Gestio of the emergency laws is now completed by the process of the tramitation of Parliament. On the 20th of May 2014, the Government Board agreed to change the law of 1996. Today, with benefits received and agreed on during the tramital process, it's about to be accepted, and that's good news. It's been 20 years since we accepted '96', and now it's time for us to face the extenuating committees. It recalled that on 20 May 2014, the Governing Council approved the draft law amending the Emergency Management Act of 1996. This law that is being debated for approval today...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u5	Please be quiet. Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u6	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. It should be recalled that the bill came to this Parliament after receiving, in its process of processing, contributions from the Association of Basque Municipalities-Eudel, from the three outlaws, from the Bilbao City Council, from the Association of Civil Protection Volunteers of Ordizia, and, of course, from the favourable report of the Basque Civil Protection Commission. The Emergency Management Act 1996 was a pioneering norm in our environment. Its merit was to integrate routine management of ordinary emergencies into a single system, and to make operational an urgent response to situations of collective emergency and catastrophes. And time has endorsed its effectiveness. But 20 years have passed since its adoption, and it is necessary to update it, reinforcing that model of the primitive law. It is therefore a question of updating the Basque emergency and civil protection system, strengthening and optimizing its operational goodness and its instrumental value as a service to people. The main objectives of this amendment can be summarised in three paragraphs. On the one hand, the updating of some aspects of the Basque civil protection and emergency system to promote the concertation and interrelationship of the actions of the various institutions and services concerned and the role of the social initiative in its complementarity with the public level. On the other hand, it is also a question of filling some shortcomings in the current regulation in aspects such as the organisation of forecasting and alerts. Thirdly, in relation to the rights and duties of citizens, it establishes the necessary obligations of self-protection and also the sanctioning regime to which certain behaviours give rise. In this regard, the draft law, in addition to giving concrete expression to the rights of citizens in relation to emergency risks and their management (i.e. the right to information, the right to cooperation and participation), also determines the duties of citizens in the same situations, mainly the duty to cooperate with civil protection tasks and the duty to adopt mandatory self-protection measures. The bill also specifies other aspects that affect special civil protection partners. It therefore defines which undertakings or establishments are required to have self-protection measures. It also states that the surveillance and protection services of public or private health-care enterprises, or those for the management of basic supplies, such as water, gas, electricity or telecommunications, are obliged to facilitate the use of their means to deal with the emergency. It defines, among other things, the role of the social media in the dissemination of warnings and instructions endorsed by the competent civil protection authority. The counterpoint of these obligations is laid down in those exceptional measures which the civil protection authority may temporarily adopt, in the form of orders or instructions for compulsory compliance, to deal with emergency situations in an appropriate and effective manner. On the other hand, the amendment of the law also strengthens the mechanisms of foresight and prevention. Prediction and prevention in situations of risk or emergency that may arise. In the field of forecasting it regulates, for example, the inventory and risk map of Euskadi, the information and alert network of civil protection, the connection of the Basque Meteorology Service-Euskalmet to the information and alert network, the existence of a programme of action to predict and monitor adverse weather events... It also provides for land management instruments and urban planning to take into account the inventory and risk map and, as a result, to establish risk prevention and impact reduction measures in the event of disasters. In the area of self-protection, obligations in this area are raised to the law. This is one of the new developments. Thus, an obligation is laid down to have a self-protection plan for those undertakings or entities which may generate serious watering or which by their nature may be particularly vulnerable. It is also envisaged that the civil protection authorities will be able to implement the security measures required for emergency situations in a subsidiary manner, at the expense of those who are obliged to do so. In addition, the obligation is laid down to programme information, prevention and dissemination activities in the field of civil protection in the different training and educational cycles, as well as the obligation to carry out evacuation exercises or simulations. And finally, the link with the Basque emergency care and civil protection service of all those organizations that are relevant to security, either because of their vulnerability or because of their potential danger is strengthened. The updating of the nature and functions of the Euskadi Emergency Coordination Centre is particularly relevant in this amendment of the law. The purpose of the amendments is nothing other than to ensure the flow of information that is relevant and relevant so that the services involved can deal with the emergency in an appropriate and effective way. For this purpose, the Euskadi Emergency Coordination Centre is a communication platform for connecting all the operational centres of the Euskadi emergency and security services, and its main function is to be the operational coordination centre as provided by the civil protection plans themselves and the corresponding operational tactics, and includes, of course, the 1-1-2 emergency call service. In another matter, the amendment of the law provides for a section of distinctions and recognitions for all those acts that are remarkable and have a personal character, as in order to recognize citizen collaboration or contributions from other entities. The bill also incorporates a chapter on the sanctioning regime, a chapter that did not exist in the current law. Its objective is nothing other than to strengthen compliance with the Emergency Management Act in accordance with the basic principles to be governed by sanctioning administrative law. For this purpose, serious breaches such as failure to develop or update self-protection plans, lack of insurance of civil liability, or prevention of an inspection shall be considered to be very serious. And it will also be considered as very serious offences the act of communicating false emergency notices that trigger the mobilization of civil protection resources; abusive, insulting, threatening or playful calls to emergency telephones that therefore affect the service itself, or the fact of hindering or not recognizing the work of the competent civil protection authority in a specific circumstance of emergency and risk. For the offences provided for in this Act, or in this proposal to amend the 1996 Act, the general administration of the autonomous community, the municipalities or the outlaw administration may be punished, depending on the area in which the breach occurs and the institution that bears the direction of the civil protection plan that has been activated at any time. The Act also provides for other aspects related to the organization and specificities of emergency services that are attached to the Department of Safety, the department responsible for managing emergency-related matters. The role of these emergency services is to assist their authorities in the area of their powers, planning, intervention and coordination in emergency situations. The bill, which was presented in May 2014 to this Parliament, came with a goal of updating the Basque system of emergencies and civil protection and the urge to strengthen and optimize their operational and service goodness to people, as I said in the beginning. The parliamentary process has made it possible to purify, improve the drafting of the text adopted by the Governing Council, thanks to the contribution, to the contributions of all parliamentary groups. It is just a recognition of this effort that has been made by all political groups at parliamentary level. We know that the debate has made it possible to analyse, agree and accept much of the amendments tabled to the draft, and this, as I said, is to be welcomed. Beyond the meaning of the vote, we should be grateful for the joint effort made by all the parliamentary groups. In addition to incorporating significant technical improvements, the law strengthens the structure of public emergency management services. The final wording also clarifies the ways in which volunteering is involved, its training, its functions and the recognition of its work. We live in a society in which public policies aimed at managing emergencies are primarily aimed at mitigating risks through prevention and security, and at preparing the appropriate response to each emergency situation when it occurs. The challenges of the future go hand in hand with involving society as a whole and facing the challenge of achieving a more resilient society, a society capable of facing and resisting situations of danger, capable also of recovering from their effects efficiently within a short time, capable of improving their future protection, and capable of being in solidarity with situations such as those that live these days Japan or Ecuador and other collective tragedies, such as war conflicts and tragedies such as the refugee crisis, which we have witnessed in recent days. To this end, the draft law provides for the creation of a disaster support unit, in order to enable professionals from here, euskadi emergency professionals, not only to work in a coordinated manner here in euskadi, but also to collaborate on missions outside when their cooperation is requested. The law of 1996 is about to renew the bill which is to be discussed today, to renew, to-day, and to strengthen it. It was a precedent for the management of the emergency emergencys in 1996, which will be the present, if it be accepted with your approval. We hope so. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u7	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Do you think any of the members of the board are reporting? No. Missat's gone. Mr Ruiz de Arbulo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, members of the government, good morning. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. Indeed, Madam Counsellor, yes, I believe that, after the work of the paper and the opinion of the rest of the groups, you will have the support to move this bill forward. From the Group of the European People's Party we have a group of amendments, a large number of amendments, but because we simply believe that they improve or support or further develop the text which, in fact, from the outset, we consider to be a good text; a text which could be improved, but which could be adopted. And we have kept these amendments simply in the interest of improving the text, although we are not radically opposed to what is left outside our amendments, except in part which I will comment on later. If I would like, first of all, to praise – and I say praise, with all your letters – the working environment of the paper. I believe that since Mr Latxaga, who was the representative of the Government in this presentation, his way of working, his way of doing the agendas, that of making it easier for us all; the open spirit to accept all the ideas of Mr Unzalu and the presenter of Bildu and all of us, for there has been a comfortable job, an easy job, and in the end there is a text agreed virtually unanimously among all the groups. From the amendments that we left for your vote today I wanted to highlight in some way, since this is the turn of defence of the amendments – although I know, I think they have told me that they will not approve any of them – the judicial communication for home entry or when aspects of illegality could be identified in the sanctioning files, that communication also to the competent judicial bodies; prior authorization for large-scale practical exercises in case of emergency; the communication of the major emergency plans to this Parliament (not for their debate, logically, but for their knowledge). To make clear in the law also – this does seem very important to me; we already said it at the time, when we were consulted this rule as the Foral Diputación de Álava – the existence of more emergency coordination centres apart from the government's subordinate; that there are others in other administrations, that in the future there may be some more and that it would be necessary to be collected in the law, simply for security, for its existence and functioning. Finally, the modification of the sanctions catalogue, including or removing some aspects that we believe should not be worthy of those sanctions. And its classification or quantification. To assume that minor infringements should be punished by between EUR 150 and EUR 1,500 seems to us to be a little excessive. We say that up to EUR 1,500, leaving the sanctioning body free so that some minor behaviors that are not of great importance are not punished with that minimum penalty of EUR 150. With regard to the amendments that the EH Bildu Group is holding for its debate, we are going to vote against, as we have already moved Mrs Ubera. On the one hand, because we understand that the regulation of these groups or teams dependent on other administrations should not be in the law, and on the part of the maritime rescue because we find that it is not the place to do so, because, in the same way, we have not regulated in this norm, nor did the project bring us into the original drafting of the Government, I do not know, the management of the emergency services of the Canary Islands or other issues that are not within the competence of this Parliament. And in order to prevent us from encountering judicial remedies, that we then complain a lot that we are presenting things that we know are not the right ones, that are outside our competence, and that they oust us and end up in the courts, because, in order to avoid these issues, we believe that we must not accept this amendment and that maritime rescue, in the way it was intended to regulate with its amendments, is not the responsibility of this Parliament, because it is not our competence. At the end of the procedure, a second final provision appeared to us (proposed by the Socialist Party, Mr Unzalu, I think with very good intentions), the creation of this emergency scale, the amendment of Law 1/2004, which is necessary, is true, but which is not the most appropriate place. And that is why we are going to ask for this provision to be voted on separately among the unamended texts, as I have already mentioned to the President before the start of the debate. I don't think this is the right place, because it hasn't been consulted. If this had come... It seems to us that it is not the most appropriate; it is also the Government, because, in fact, it did not include it originally in the drafting of the draft that was brought to this House. Because its site could be either the Staff Regulations, which are about to begin the presentation in this House, or the Fire Department Act, which has already begun. They'd be the most suitable places. In view of the fear that the Government would not go ahead with these two projects, it has indeed been accepted to include it here, which does not paint anything, but, well, let's say it can be interesting for the professionals concerned. We are going to abstain from that provision, since what has not been done is to consult precisely the parliaments and municipalities, which have to put it into practice – we do not know what their opinion is – and not even to consult the representatives of the workers on what their opinion is on this creation of that scale, if it is the right one, if it is not the right one, or how it should be better done. We understand that this is not the place to change the status of the public employee in this emergency rule, and that is why we want to leave it. And I would not like to leave the rostrum today without commenting again on the good working environment that has existed, the ease that has been given by the Government to admit transactions, the proposals of all groups, and, I believe, the good text that will remain. What surprises me is that, if it is easy to connect the agendas of the whole world to meet, to sit down to work; if it is simple not to impose meetings, not to impose criteria, not to impose majorities in work, to devote many hours of work – with the help, logically, of the lawyers of the House – to carry out the project; knowing this recipe, and being many the needs of the citizens, what I do not understand is why the legislative production of this Parliament is so low. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u10	Good morning, everyone. The general attitude of "EH Collectation" in front of this law is, in short, the attitude of self-absorbed self-absion, in a word. We don't really understand why this reform of the Emergency Law has come. We didn't understand the motivation and the purpose of this reform, even though it was about to adapt to the update you said and today's times. We do not understand what corrections have been set forth, what changes have been introduced, and what corrections have been accepted, especially if we do not understand it, we do not understand it. Perhaps it was the object of the Government to make a distinction: on the one hand the law of spectacles, on the other, of firemen, and third of all, of emergency. Thus giving a partial and fragmentary view. In principle, reform remains in a very technical condition, if there is no hidden purpose. And we at least have not been able to conjecture and see what this secret end is. Our teams, EH Collect, are not many of the amendments made by the law. That's right, but deep and quaalitative, and so the other groups and the groups that support the government have been confessed to us. For we had our goal to improve with our rights the new law, the constitution, management, and working of emergency, from an integrated point of view. We have tried to provide them with more horizontal functions of content and organization, and to increase them in our hands, in our auto-organization, in the self-generacy which so many governments proclaims. In order to be more specific, it was our goal to insert an integrated view of the results and the proper responses of emergency, just by grafting them into the complete view of the fall-egories and not of the usual emergency problems, but also by seeing what's going on in our daily emergency, and creating the Euscalal agency for the Election of the Electionscal, in order to improve their co-ordination and to produce that organization of the different bodies which now constitute the emergency emergency, and to prevent each from staying in his own sphere. The deeper into form has been one of our other goals, which is really essential to us. Another, the salvation of the sea, that the troubles which occur in the sea-range should be within the limits of this law, besides the neglect which has been left for the last few years, our hands, ours, ours, and ours, in order to get them. Creating a volunteer network to support and support a professional emergency service. Our purpose was not to replace these professionals, but to complete and support them. And on the other hand, we had another important and essential purpose, and the structure of the historic and municipal lands for civil protection and emergency, because it is well to create laws and frames, but if we have no means and structure, these plans have at last become nothing, as they have been for the last years, in drawers. And besides this, there are people in the country who are trained in the country, who at any time will know how to answer a proper answer to such a situation. These were our goals, even though we've managed to open the gates to certain criteria and purpose. We don't get as much as we wanted, but it's true that we've managed to open some doors, and it's important for us, and at least we appreciate opening those doors in this adaptation. For example, we didn't get a Basque agency. It seems as if we had agreed that each should continue to preserve his due share of power, and that we should not be so deep in co-ordination and action, although it is true and must be confessed, we have agreed to create a public structure for organization. This is important to us, because this law opens a door to improve the organization and co-ordination. As far as form is concerned, the agreement we have obtained is to appreciate. It seems to us that we've made a very important advance on this, and that's essential. Now we need to establish resources, because without resources we can have the best law in the world, but if the resources are not, we can't go on. It was one of our other goals of salvation. Besides the salvation of the earth, a step in the salvation of the sea. But we must say that we have not succeeded in this, and that the recovery of the sea will remain within the limits of others, as it has been for the last few years. We won't even have a grip to drive our hands to an operacial level. So this is one of the corrections we've brought to this gathering today. As for the volunteer network, we must say that we have not managed to complete a volunteer network and provide them with resources. We don't understand why this network doesn't give the same importance as it needs. It's true that we've agreed to create a record. It may be a first step, and this may help to increase a development from now on. But it seems to us at this moment that we see the situation in volunteering, seeing that this country is a sphere of actual cultivation in the neighbourhood, in the Voluntary, in the Voluntary. It was a pity, indeed, that they should be removed in the historical regions and in the villages, especially in the countries of 20,000 inhabitants, to produce emergency structures. In the end, because it helps to bring this law to practice in the everyday: They make plans, they define plans, they update, they form people, people train them. We have therefore kept, on the one hand, the maintenance of these structures in historical countries, the support of small nations, and the support of the inhabitants of 20,000 inhabitants, although we were ready to make a middle course, but it has not been possible. Therefore, and to sum up in a word the assessment we make of the reform of the Emergency Law, we can sum it up as sour. On the one hand we are happy; we are glad that we have managed to pave the way for issues that we considered important and basic, such as improving the functioning and coordination of emergencies, such as the public organizational structure of emergencies, training, the volunteer network... And on the other hand, we are displeased, for having lost the opportunity we had to provide emergency structures on daily issues, through plans or protocols, and because again, therefore, maritime rescue remains on nobody's land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians. Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u12	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. For it is a good day, And for me a joyful one. Why? Because this text, which we consider today, gives a full view to the euscal system of emergencies and civil protection. Twenty years ago, the law of the administration of emergency united the usual management of any incident or emergency in one system. In the course of the 20 years that have elapsed, there have been a lot of improvements which make the management of the emergency better possible, and this is exactly what we want to deal with. the agreed text performs the entire euccal system of emergency and civil protection by giving it an integrated point of view. The agreements are in themselves pleasant, but joy increases when a law has such protection. And I am convinced that the great support granted in this law of administration will be beneficial to the whole euscal society, to an appeal or emergency call, in order to ensure that it will be answered quickly in an integrated and efficient manner. To the point of this, I wish to remind myself that the law has taken upon itself the contributions of all the groups, and that it is the contribution of all the agents and representatives who have come to us. After a lot of work, we got a lot of protection. As a result of the negotiations between the groups, the text receives a variety of innovations, such as forms and preparation, screens for professional services composed of volunteers, and preventions for the support of professional services, the duties for companies' self-reprogation, the fine-regation, the connection of the Memereology services to the civil protection, the preventive and preventive mechanism of emergency. As to the sphere of law, it has therefore been a great deal of agreement, and therefore, in the name of the eulogy party, I would like to show that this law has been in favor of all the members of the community. And that the original text has improved because of the performance. The work we have done in this paper has been intense, and has allowed us to unravel a path that has led to a broad consensus. In this regard, I would like to highlight that constructive spirit of all the members of the paper. It was clear that we all had to make an effort on some issues, but that is pure parliamentary work. The amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups go through that workshop, which is the presentation, and that workshop hastened the development of the law, because it serves to polish it, it serves to agree, and it even serves to settle discrepancies. In short, it serves to advance in legislative drafts of these characteristics. Therefore, in this case I cannot make mine the famous sentence of the Prussian politician and statesman Otto Von Bismark, when he said that "With the laws passes as with the sausages, that it is better not to see how they are made". The agreed text updates the entire Basque emergency and civil protection system and provides a comprehensive perspective that will allow for the proper forecasting and response of emergencies. We have a rule dating back to 1996; this Parliament adopted a pioneering law that organized an inter-institutional interaction and coordination scheme in the face of all kinds of disasters. It was part of the experience that started with the floods of 1983, when we learned how important it is to add head to the solidarity heart that acts with enthusiasm to help after any catastrophe. And we were pioneers in setting up protocols and expert forecasting systems, which indicated how catastrophes such as fires or floods could develop. But it is also true that in these twenty years we have fully entered the digital era, and in the time since then there have been many advances that facilitate better emergency management. The new standard incorporates such progress and advances in the response that institutions can give to a risk situation. Thus, emergency preparedness and prevention mechanisms are strengthened, regulating the alert network and linking meteorological services with civil protection. The law provides for many other issues of calm, such as the rights and duties of citizens in emergency situations, or everything related to training and volunteering, renews the sanctioning regime, and updates the functions of the Euskadi Emergency Coordination Centres. Logically, this is not the time to detail each and every one of these developments, among other things because the counselor has made a good review of the rule and has outlined the outstanding elements of this law that we have adopted today. On behalf of our group, Euzko Abertzaleak, I would like to express our appreciation for the work of the Basque Government in general and the Department of Security in particular, since it sent us a good project, which we have obviously tried to improve in the presentation. Of course, our group has made a compromise effort to defend the draft sent by the Government, and will vote in favour of the report drawn up by the presentation and the committee opinion. However, I believe that what can be seen here today – and the Councillor has also pointed out – is the sharing of basic issues such as emergency situations with the groups that we represent to Basque society. The result of this rapprochement and this work has reached this consensus. In this endeavour, all the Socialist Group's amendments and 28 of the Group's forty-nine amendments have been accepted or transacted; with EH Bildu four of its eight amendments have been negotiated, and finally UPyD, which has neither tabled amendments nor made a presentation. In one way or another, two out of three amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups have been accepted. The fact that we are voting today that not the amendments that the People's Group and EH Bildu are holding do not mean at all that the consensus breaks down, but that there have logically been specific disagreements in that consensus, which do not remain at the top of the main agreement. Because I will not tire of repeating that the law has been improved thanks to the will of all groups, and in it will be collected amendments of all formations. We have agreed with all and among all, and that enriches the norm. In any case, and in the end, as spokesman for Euzko Abertzaleak, there is nothing left for me but to thank everyone again for all the work they have done, and to congratulate us together for the result that I hope will follow in the votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u13	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. Passing on the answering round, Mr. Abulo... ? No. Mrs. Ubera... ? Not even. [[Pause]] Now that the discussion is over, we'll go to the vote. They go to vote together, 55 of the EH Collect Group... Yes, do you want to get something out? Yeah. How?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u14	Can you hear me? The 55, 56, and 53 corrections that are to vote at the same time instead of voting together, each voting separately.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u15	But you're going to make a different vote over there, aren't you?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u16	No, we don't.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u17	But somebody's gonna ask me to leave if they want.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u18	I wanted to ask. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u19	Yes, yes, if someone wants to pull it out, if he wants to make the vote aside, to ask for it, but, in principle, only Popular Party has asked me to get something out of it. No one else asked for it. I don't know, if he's planning to. Then they vote together to produce new paragraphs, 55 and 56 of the EH team, and 53. Correction, made to 26 paragraphs. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 21; the opposites are 54; white; 0; abstentions are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u20	So they didn't accept it. Let's make a paragraph vote on it 26th. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 21; the white ones, 0; abstentions are 0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u21	So it's accepted. At the same time, the Euscalia Group's 7, 13, 16 to 19, 22 and 23, 27 to 29, 31, 33, 37, 38, 43, 44, and 49 corrections. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 10; the opponents, 64; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u22	So they didn't accept it. The paragraphs of the Companions of the Euscal Group, that is to say, 5, 17.20, 22, 29, 34, 36, 37, 39, 41, and the last regulation. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters of 44; the contrary, 0; white, 0,0; abstain, 31.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u23	So they're accepted. The paragraphs of irication, which have no appeal at all, from 1 to 4, 18, 19, 25, 27, and 28, 30 to 33, 35, 38, 40, 42 to 50, imperturbing regulations, the last regulation. We'll leave the second for later. La secunda votamos luego. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; Abstension, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u24	So they're accepted. And next we vote for the second regulation. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; 65; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u25	So it's accepted. The correction of the EH Collect team, he said, is on the vote. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 21; the opposites are 54; white; 0; abstentions are 0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u26	So he didn't accept it. The explanation and the name of the law are put to the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; Abstension, 21.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u27	So they're accepted. So the law of changing the Laws of the Administration has been granted. After that, there is an explanation of suffrage. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, Congressmen, good morning to all. Briefly, to explain the vote of the Basque Socialists, we have just supported the adoption of the draft law amending the Emergency Management Act because we think it is a good law for citizens. It focuses on cooperation and coordination of services to be intervened in emergency situations; gives the Basque Government the power to lead such coordination and cooperation with a professional public organizational structure; advances in preventive measures; instructs the Basque Police and Emergency Academy to prepare agents to intervene in emergency situations, and many other measures that may imply that Basque citizenship is better protected in situations resulting from widespread disaster. On the other hand, we have proposed the inclusion of the creation of the emergency scale precisely because we believe that it is an old claim, already reflected in the amendment that was sent to this House in 2012, and that the other possibilities of including it have no prospects of being approved even in the medium term. But I also have to say that we have come to this point after attending the process to one of the clearest examples of the lack of diligence that the current Government and the group that supports it in the management of legislative production have had. We have passed this bill with double satisfaction. The first, because the adopted text is almost a literal copy of which this House sent, at the end of its term of office, the government of the lehendakari Patxi López. And the second, because it is a text that, despite having slept for months in the limbo of the righteous, has finally been able to see the light. The original draft could not be approved, despite having exceeded the period of amendments, for electoral advance. The current government took almost two years, until September 2014, to forward to this Parliament its draft, which, I repeat, was an almost literal copy of the previous one, to which virtually none of the nearly 100 amendments tabled by the Basque Nationalist group in 2012 had even been incorporated. The most important novelty of the text submitted in September 2014 was to delete the amendments to the fourth chapter, which refers to the services of fire prevention and extinguishment and rescue, with the justification that a specific bill was planned to be sent to this House, which occurred a year later, in September 2015. And we are not going to talk now about the course of that SPEIS bill, better known as "firefighters' law." I hope that, after correcting the error of this Government, we will have a law of firefighters in line with the needs of Basque citizens. He also said that he was pleased because we finally approved the draft, a draft that is referred to Parliament, as I said, in September 2014; that after the appearances and the deadlines for amendments, which end on 12 February 2015, the members of the paper are appointed on 25 March. Well, despite the fact that the government has accused – without reason, from our point of view – of opposition to delays in legislative production, in this case it is the group that supports the government that slowed down the development of the work, since it was not until seven months after there was...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u29	Mr. Unzalu, please don't interfere with the rest of the party. That was why you had the old Turone. Please. No, no, no, why did he vote, not what the other parties did, because that was why there was another tour. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u30	Well, even though this bill was slowed down by the effect we have already said, we have passed the ninth bill of this legislature. It is apparent that this Government has not been characterized by legislative production. Compared, for example, with the past legislature, twenty-two bills had been passed in the same period of time. On the other hand, the Socialists have tabled sixteen amendments, and all of them have either been incorporated directly into the final text, or had sex with other groups, an effort that I thank my colleagues and a fellow speaker. And, as is often said colloquially, "it is never too late if bliss is good." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u31	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Before we pass the sixth point, I must say that the seventh point will be seen at the third point, and the third point at the seventh point. Number of points in theme list: "Mortion, introduced by the members of the Casanova Alonso EH Collector, by the political development of the urgent crisis in the neighbourhood of the euccanys, and by the perspetibs of the future. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Casanova, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u32	Yes, hello, good morning to all. The Basque Country is an industrial people. We know that it's going back to 20% of our raw internal product that industry produces. Industrial employment is produced, and a tractor Ephecto upon the whole economy. We're an industrial people and we want to increase that character. The government, as well as the other, presupposes that 20% of this level should pass to 25 percent at this level. And that is not a decision taken on sentimental grounds, but a very logical and pragmatic basis, because we know that a direct connection exists between the weight of industry in an economy and the quality of life in that country. The direct connection, and we can verify this by comparing the quality of life in industrialised countries, and also the different regions in the Basque Country. Here again it is confirmed that in areas where labor is strong life is a higher quality and a more healthy economy. The technology for an industrial community is essential. The technology technology is extremely important in order to maintain that strong industry. We live in a globalized economy. There are a lot of competitors and it's getting harder and harder to sell products in international markets. To do this, it is evident that a small and industrial country like ours has the chance of specialisation in the production of advanced products. And further, when we say that this specialization technology is an opportunity, we must say it's not an option, it's just one choice. It's the only option, if we want to maintain the character as an industrial community, to make a special effort in technological progress. And unfortunately, the relationship between the Esscal industry and the eucalyptic society today is not that. We're not precursors, sometimes as some of us want to sell them to us by propaganda. Today, the Euskal industry has a low or medium technology level. Zooms 70% of the production into these sectors, the lower, medium, or value of technology value in low, unvalued sectors. And we really say that Damocles' sword is on the euscal industry. We have in this country the unfortunate historical experience of what it means to face a sudden process of obsolescence of industry and the consequences that this has, becoming de-industrialization and a real economic and social drama, as we live in the 1970s and 1980s. The Basque industry has suffered a sharp structural downturn between 2007 and 2013, with the loss of about 75,000 jobs in Euskal Herria. And although it is true that in the last two years we are witnessing an improvement, in the face of this structural setback this improvement is a cyclical improvement. And we say this not by whim or by denying the evidence of certain data, but by understanding that this improvement is fundamentally linked to a number of external factors, which are basically known, such as stimulus plans, depreciation of the euro, which improves competitiveness, or the fall in oil prices. But despite this short-term improvement, the fundamental problems of the Basque industry persist, because a precisely structural reform policy has not been implemented. And among the many problems that the Basque industry continues to face, which we have had the opportunity to talk about here at other times, there is one that has a central character, a problem that is, with capital letters, the problem, and that is, as we said before, technological backwardness. Today, talking about an industrial sector or a company with a low technological level is talking about an industrial sector or a company at risk, and we need to be fully aware of that. And, therefore, one wonders, with total legitimacy..., it is almost our duty to ask ourselves what performance we are doing on this issue. Are we improving in the field of R & D? Are we improving investment in technology? There is a determining indicator of a society's effort, which makes an economy in technological development; an indicator that often tells us more about the economy and society of a country, and about political priorities, than the evolution of gross domestic product itself. And it is precisely the relationship between gross domestic product and money that is invested in research, development and innovation, the percentage of GDP that is invested in R & D+i. And we can say that if indicators such as employment or the evolution of the gross domestic product itself tell us how and where an economy is at a given time, the investment that a society and an economy makes in R & D+i tells us how and where that economy is going to be within five and ten years. We therefore believe that the ratio, the ratio between R & D investment and the gross domestic product of an economy, the percentage of that gross domestic product devoted to research, development and innovation is a crucial indicator. What is the reality of our country, what is the reality of our society, what is the reality of our economy in relation to investment, with this ratio of such an important nature? If we look at both the situation and the evolution, the results and the consequences cannot be encouraging at all. In 2015, and this is still a provisional indicator... The previous years have already been consolidated by Eustat, but in 2015 1.90 % of GDP was invested in research, development and innovation in the Basque Autonomous Community: 1.307 million, 1.90 million. The European average of the twenty-eight, i.e. including those countries that have recently entered and have less developed economies, the average for the European Union as a whole was 2.03. That is, we are below the European average. But there is also another worrying fact: we are not only below, but we have opposite tendencies. While the amount of gross domestic product devoted to research and development has grown continuously in Europe in recent years, we in the Basque Autonomous Community have been chained three consecutive years of declines. And this had to be a dramatic news, which would have to be addressed as an absolute priority, not only of the Government, but of the country. In 2012, 2,06 % of gross domestic product was invested in this issue; in 2013 the amount fell to 2 %; in 2014, 1,93, and in 2015, the above-mentioned 1,90. As is well known, and almost by intuition this conclusion could be reached, the countries that invest the most in this heading, with investments of more than 3% of their gross domestic product, are Sweden, Finland and Denmark. Germany is obviously also approaching, although it does not reach 3%. And in the international arena names that are also not surprising, such as Japan, the United States or South Korea, lead this ranking. Where are we in a relative situation, in the context of nations and states, in that international context? We have to conclude with regret that in 2014 the 1,93 % invested in the Basque Autonomous Community in research and development is closer to the 1,20 invested in Spain than the 2,84 invested in Germany. In science, in research, in investment, in R & D, we are closer to Spain than to Germany. And there's a fact... I said that one of the names would not be surprised by those mentioned above, but perhaps it would be surprised to know that China has also advanced us. A country which is supposed to compete only with cheap labour and which is a fundamentally imitating country, turns out to invest in innovation, trying to innovate, trying to turn its production system upside down, more than the Basque Autonomous Community: 1.98 %. And, in addition to this cure of humility that involves comparing us with the countries of the international context, we can do another exercise that is even more interesting, more instructive and more worrying, which is to compare us with the European regions that by their nature and size have greater similarities, in terms of their productive structure, with our own. These regions, which in European terminology are referred to as NUTS 2 regions, bring us back to a reality that is certainly not much less that which is sold from certain instances. If compared to countries, with states, we lose, compared to the industrialized and technologically advanced regions really the results are almost humiliating for those who pretend to be the navel of the world. There are 38 European regions of this NUTS 2 categorization that exceed 3% of investment in research and development; 38 regions among which the autonomous community is not: of 276 NUTS 2 regions, we are about 100, that is, an absolutely mediocre position. Stuttgart, Baden-Württemberg, East England or Brabant exceed 4% of R & D investment in their GDP. That is to say, we are under half what the advanced regions are investing. Therefore, this is the reality of Basque research, development and innovation: we invest little, and we are falling in investment. There is one objective that we are bringing here with today's proposal, with today's motion: to achieve by 2020 3% of gross domestic product invested in research, development and innovation actions. Why 3%? It is not a fetish or random figure; it is an objective that the European Union itself set out in its European 2020 strategy to achieve as an average in the Union. And it's a goal we're a long way from getting to. It is a necessary, desirable, almost indispensable objective, but to which, today and with the current policies, we are far from reaching. We have an instrument in this country, a relatively new instrument, such as the Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, which sets targets, selects a number of areas of expertise in line with the RIS3 strategy, and sets out evaluation mechanisms, as well as a number of expenditure forecasts. We are critical of this PCTI, both in its design and in its contents, and also in its governance model, because we believe it has important shortcomings, but we are not going to make an amendment to the whole today, and we are going to focus on a chapter that is related to the motion that we were presenting, which is that of spending. Well, the PCTI does not even aim to reach 3% of expenditure. I mean, it's not that we're not going to get to 3% investment in R & D if the plan goes wrong. No, no! It is that, even if we do well, even if we activate all the investments envisaged in this plan, we would be very far from that 3%, because the plan is not even intended as an objective. Give up in advance to reach 3%. We think it's pretty serious. The plan provides for a total public-private investment of EUR 1.909 million by 2020. We have carried out three different simulations or three calculations, understanding the possibility of three different rates of growth of the gross domestic product by 2020: one with an average of 2 %; the other of 3, and one, obviously optimistic, of 4 %. If the first forecast was met, if GDP grew to an average of 2 % in these years, the amount designated in the PCTI for research and development would reach 2.59% of GDP; if 3%, 2.49, and if growth was 4%, 2.43. That is, at best 2.5 long, 2.6, halfway to the 3% target. We therefore believe that we need to make it very clear that in this section of expenditure the PCTI fails before it starts, because it does not even adequately and ambitiously formulate the objectives that we as a country must demand of ourselves and ourselves. In addition, there are other problems in this PCTI, because it outsources responsibilities, i.e. it places the greatest burden of increased investment in areas beyond the control of public institutions in the Basque Autonomous Community. It unloads the weight of the increase in investment both in institutions outside the country and in private enterprise itself. And if, therefore, the commitment of the Basque Government through budgets to this area can be discussed, obviously there can also be a demand and a political decision can also be determined in this regard, but what cannot be determined, solely and exclusively by a political decision of the Basque Government, is what companies are going to invest and what the institutions are going to invest. We therefore believe that a different model is needed here, not only in terms of designing the objectives, but also in terms of integrating policies in which those actors who are called upon to make greater investment are clearly motivated and that they clearly meet their objectives. Because, among other things, we can say that in the last year private companies, on which the PCTI places the burden of increasing investment in R & D, have reduced their investment in this chapter by 2%. And, therefore, let's not go if those who are called to be protagonists of investment are not doing so. Therefore, not only will it be necessary to set expenditure targets, but it will also need to create a new governance of this ICTP, so that it can involve and drag those sectors to carry out the costs that are essential. In addition, the institution that has the least growth is self-imposed on investment in this heading is the Basque Government itself, which, as I said, is putting more effort into this issue in other institutions and therefore abandons its pedagogical, leadership, tractor and exemplary attitude. We have therefore started badly with this PCTI, but there are five years left for the end of 2020. There is time for a change of course, and we need to raise this issue as a country challenge. A challenge that involves society as a whole, its social partners, trade unions, companies and universities, and technological and research centres. We propose through this motion a thorough reassessment of the mechanisms and objectives of the PCTI, so that, taking the form of a social pact, the direction can be corrected and the direction taken in the right direction. Because the current course we can see is not that it does not lead us to the objectives, but that the objectives are not even set in the right terms. We do not propose a whole amendment here; we propose an inclusive proposal, in which all the groups in this House can feel reflected, I believe. There is no small letter, the proposal you have on the table says what it means, and I believe that this objective, at least on a theoretical level, is shared by all and all here. So, let's take a change of direction, let's take a step in the right direction. We have two examples in the Spanish state, one positive and one negative, so that they do not say that we only mention Spain to criticize. The positive would be the Toledo Pact; the negative, the education situation. The Toledo Pact on pensions, without entering the contents, has been an armory to which all political groups bound themselves, establishing a series of shared objectives and restrictions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u33	Go to the end, Mr. Casanova.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u34	... political debate. Lovetzen noa, bai. And the bad example is the situation of education in the Spanish state, in which every government that arrives comes up with all the above and returns from scratch without consensus and without agreement. I am going to propose here today to you a 3% pact. But even though that digit has become famous for other unrecognizable pacts, this is not a pact to cut or steal. It's a pact to sow. It is not 3% to enrich a minority dishonestly, but 3% to enrich society as a whole honestly. It is a major challenge that we have to address as a country, with all the actors and with all the groups, and we believe that it is an open proposal for agreement with all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the group, Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u36	Mr. President, Mr. Toña, Congressman. I regret the absence of the Counsellor for Economic Development and Competitiveness. It would have been interesting for me to be here today at least to listen live to something that is not only in our mouths, but also out on the street. The motion presented to us today by Bildu, EH Bildu, gives us all an opportunity to consider the beginning (at least the beginning) of a debate on the crisis affecting our industrial sector and the prospects for the future. We are not the only ones concerned about the situation that our industry is going through, because, as has been said and you all know, next Saturday, that is, on the 23rd, a unitary demonstration (yes, unitary) is being held in Bilbao by all the Basque trade union organizations claiming "Gure industrialen defendsan. For a real industrial policy." This concern is not based on speculation, but unfortunately on data, on the constant loss of jobs in our industry and on the economic weight that industry has been losing throughout our economy. Because there is no doubt that we are in the decision to take a guarantee and walk towards lasting growth so that the exit from the crisis is real, which will only be possible when our young people, more than 50% of them unemployed, and the rest of the unemployed, have options to work in quality jobs, in decent jobs. And for that it is good that we place the importance of our industry in our economy. With real data we see that the gross domestic product fell by 5.8% between 2008 and 2014 in our community, while it fell by 6% in Spain. The difference is therefore not seen in this data, but in the differences in the gross value added of the different branches of activity. Gross value added has thus been worse than in Spain in the primary sector, in trade and in information and communications. The opposite has happened, with much better behaviour, in our manufacturing industry, whose gross value added fell by 9.8% over the same period, compared to a 14.2% reduction in Spain. And if we continue to argue that our economy is going better (which is not going well) than that of Spain is that we still have a manufacturing industry of a total value of about 23.5 % (a 23.47) at the end of 2014, that is, having lost weight since 2008 in two points. The lower unemployment, and therefore the higher end consumption in our homes, explains also, logically, what we call the best behavior of the Basque economy. That's right, with clouds on the exports, as their growth is just half of what Spain has grown in its exports. An example of our weakness is that 2015 continues to behave this way, as in the third quarter of last year the annual rate of exports grew by 1.5% in Euskadi, compared to 5.6% in Spain. There are several readings on this, but I wanted to leave data that illustrate us to analyze the present to build the immediate future. We are less unemployed, that is true, but, with data from the EPA, the population occupied in the third quarter of 2015 is 13.3% lower than that existing in the fourth quarter of 2007, while in Spain in that period the decrease of the population occupied is 12.9%. Therefore, the lower unemployment rate in Euskadi would not only be explained by the lower impact of the crisis, but also by the lower rate of activity of our community, probably by demographic factors, linked to the ageing process and the lower weight of the foreign population. On the other hand, and in order to finish this part of this small economic report that we are in, it should be pointed out that the expected growth is lower than that of Spain in the coming years, and therefore the delay in economic recovery will be widened. And, for that, it would be better for them to go well to Spain and Europe. Having said that, I return to what is at stake today, although the purpose of the drawing is to place precisely what makes us strong, that is to say, our industry, on a different path from what we have been suffering. The uncertainties that drag our steel industry, from Gerdau to ArcelorMittal, through Celsa and the rest, are there. And I know that uncertainty is a soft word to define what workers and their families are suffering from, and by extension the neighbours, villages and affected regions. We'll talk about this at the next point. Our industry, therefore, is tainted, and is struggling for its salvation. All economists in the world, and ours too, from universities also agree on something fundamental: in the need to increase the technological level of the manufacturing sector, increase R & D & i spending and the innovative activity of our companies, improving the efficiency of innovation policies. This is our challenge, and today we propose that we work in this field so that our companies, and therefore our jobs, can survive and grow in the heat of a new industry, an advanced industry, an industry of the future, and that is why we need today to vote with a strong yes to the growth of the R & D & I items. We must tackle the transfer of technologies across sectors, investigate new production technologies to consume less resources and, consequently, reduce CO emissions. 2 , achieve energy efficiency, investigate life cycles of steel products. All this is what needs to be done in order to meet the challenges of the competitiveness of the steel sector, in addition to other technological production measures. And this requires investments, also from the government, because they are government issues and that the government points out as necessary for our steel industry in the report that has been forwarded to us this March 1, 2016. So that: EAJko legebiltzarkideok, vote in favour of what we have had, because it goes from this, to supporting our industry, to supporting what has always made us different not only from other regions of Spain, but many others in Europe. And it is that our industry, our companies, require investment in R & D+i, as the government recognizes. There's no counselor... You and I know that applied research and development are fundamental to a country's progress. Therefore, cutting investment in this field is not a measure of austerity, it is a mistake and a bad business. And you, from the government, have done it. His Government had done so. The data don't cheat. Despite the crisis, in Euskadi it was decided to continue supporting R & D, so did the socialist government, to the point that in 2010 expenditure reached 2.01 % of Basque GDP, first exceeding the EU average, and 2.06 in 2012. What's happened since then? As the PNV government has lost the positions that it has cost so much to achieve: in 2013, the first year of its government's management, the R & D expenditure of the Autonomous Community fell by 4.1%, returning to 1.99 of GDP, according to Eustat data, and in 2014 fell again by 2.1%, so the investment in R & D has returned to 1.93 of GDP, thus returning to 2008 rates. And the problem is that, in the meantime, the other EU countries, our competitors, are still making progress. We are already half a point below the European average, which is 2.03 % of GDP. This is not going well, because it turns out that this fall is mainly due to the reduction of investment by the Basque Government. And they will not complain about the lack of support, of ours at least: R & D has been one of the focuses of the budgetary agreements that we Socialists have closed with the government, and we promoted a research pact a year ago in this House to increase annually by 5%, until 2020, the public resources allocated to this matter. But all this is of little use if the government, and specifically the Department of Economics, not only go in the opposite direction, but also do not spend the cutback on R & D+i. It is that the liquidation of the 2015 budgets points to the Department of Economic Development as the most applied in not implementing the resources at its disposal. They have stopped spending nothing less than EUR 130 million, 27 % of their budget. The previous year, 96.9 million, 19%. And, of them, the bulk corresponds to R & D: 50.5 million to technology programmes, 13 million to industrial development programmes and support for entrepreneurs, and 13 to the innovation fund. How are we going to get the Basque economy out of its paron, if the available springs are not used to boost it? How are we going to compete with Germany, Sweden, if we don't even spend the dwindling budget on R & D? A week ago I was leaving, in this unstoppable campaign in which people were bored, who had invested more than 400 million euros in science and technology since 2014. I won't explain it to you again. He was addressing the lehendakari, who is not there at the moment. Urkullu points out that Euskadi enjoys international recognition in R & D+i. Yes, an international recognition, but downhill. "Don't worry about our lives." It is a phrase of Unai Sordo, general secretary of the Basque Workers' Commissions, and with these policies they do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u37	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u38	Let's not let it be like this. Let us strengthen our industry, reflecting urgently on the innovation policy adopted by the Government and the parliaments. Let us recognize its limited capacity to promote new sectors and raise the technological level of our industry. Therefore, we need more investment and better investment in R & D+i. Thank you, and thank you, also, for Mr. Ferrecio of Basque University and Mrs. Gómez Vega, whose references I've given about the economy...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Corries, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u40	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of the day. Mr Azkue, do you know why you are not here today in this plenary to listen to the debates we are in? Because this was point number 6, you have changed it to point number 1, and the counselor is meeting right now, her with her team, with the company committee of ACB Sestao. That's why the counselor isn't here today. But make it clear that representatives of your department are present in this debate and listening to all representatives of the parliamentary groups. The Basque business fabric is strong, solid and with future. Without complacency, of course, because it must continue to adapt to a world economic situation that is sometimes fragile and volatile. The assistance of the institutions is necessary, and this is to be mentioned, for the last few months are being specially difficult. In certain sectors and problems, in the case of steel, for instance, we live in the reality of not being in the state-level interlocution of institutions. He said that in certain sectors and problems, such as steel, we are checking what it means not to have an efficient institutional dialogue in the state to help our companies before the European regulator, another reason to ask for our own voice in Europe. As the situation in the steel sector, among others, is serious, there are many other sectors in Euskadi, all of which are committed to innovation, research and the development of products and services to adapt to the new global market scenarios and to take a step forward. And they do so in a common strategy with institutions, universities and so many other agents. Before we talk about the necessary investment figures that the motion we are debating today on EH Bildu raises, I would like to refer to the way forward, seeing what the proposing group is asking for and seeing what they have signed between the Socialist Party and EH Bildu. Because on the path of innovation, research and development we are taking a great journey, accompanied by economic, educational and so on. We have in place a science, technology and innovation plan endorsed by this House, by the Basque Council of Science and Technology, with all the actors involved, so that EH Bildu, in a regular strategy by them, and in this year 2016, asks the government to develop a plan in the next five years, as if there was no way forward. The truth is, we're very surprised, we don't feel welcome, Mr. Casanova. I remember last year, on these same dates too, having this debate, asking Mrs Celaá for more input to the plan, and on the same line she was also able to respond to it. But what distinguishes last year's debate from this year's debate today, and which seems to be not to be in question, was that we should start again, as requested by the EH Bildu group. They demand 3% of GDP before five years in research and development. According to Eurostat, we have already achieved this, exactly 3.7% of GDP. It says it here, and I'm not making it up; it's said by the Eustat data: 3.7% in 2014 compared to GDP. Efficiency of this Government. Or will they question the efficiency of this government? Well, it's true that we can go into numbers war, but since you have facilitated yours, I'm going to facilitate mine, of course not. And I teach them again, that I am not inventing them: they are taken from the Eustat page. This data has to do with the literality of the initial motion of EH Bildu, and from there you can come the desquadre with your data. The investment in R & D+i on Euskadi's GDP already exceeds the 3% you request. In particular, as I said, it is 3.7%, according to the Eustat Technological Innovation Survey. Another thing is whether we are talking about investment in R & D, where we are at 1.93 % (2.03% according to the INE), in a figure comparable to that of European high-innovation countries, by the way. In any case, I see that we share, of course, the fact that we are betting on asking the Government to make efforts in this regard. We told Mrs Celaá a year ago: if we can increase the share of the PCTI by 2020, of course, it will be done as soon as the economy allows. And it is also being done, increasing the items according to the schedule provided for in that plan. Look, our strategy, as we have already moved on in our entire amendment, is the Euskadi 2020 PCTI, a consensual strategy with a funding plan approved until 2020. If we compare the calls for support for R+D+i made by the Directorate of Technology and Strategy, we find that the call for 2014 was 124 million euros, and in 2015 it was 134 million euros, and the forecast for this year 2016 indicates that it will be 146 million euros. We have increased the games by 8,49 % in 2015, and another 8,89 % that will increase in this year 2016. On the other hand, investment must not forget that it has to be public and, above all, private. Companies make a big investment in R & D+i, which as far as possible also have to increase. Public institutions alone cannot do everything. An effort is being made to make investment in R & D+i profitable, support programmes have been modified to promote specialization, excellence, closeness to the market and, very important, collaboration between agents of the Basque Network of Science, Technology and Innovation and the companies themselves. As the Government has already informed us in the committee, work is being done on an evaluation method that offers us not only the results of the support programmes, but the impact of them. Important how much, but also very important how things are done. Mr Tapia herself also pointed out that the Basque system of science, technology and innovation enjoys very good health, given the constraints of the current economic context. Affirmation measured according to the following parameters. On the one hand, the base of researchers and total staff, which has grown slightly since 2014, has increased continuously in recent years. Secondly, Euskadi's position in the IUS, the international standard measuring the quality of innovation systems in countries and regions, which has continued to improve since 2007 and at growth rates above the European average. As a result, since 2014 Euskadi has been part of the group of high-innovation countries. It is also part of the group of high-innovation regions. Point number 3, scientific production in Euskadi, which for the first time surpassed the 5,000 publications in 2014, increasing international collaboration and its quality, according to Ikerbasque's report. And fourth, the participation and funding obtained by Euskadi in the European Framework Programme 2020, which reached €90 million in 2014. In Euskadi we are betting, following the European model RIS3, on a strategy for smart specialization and improving the efficiency of the system, aimed at facilitating industrial leadership in a number of priority areas, such as advanced manufacturing, energy and biohealth. To this end, our road map necessarily involves increasing investment in R & D and the commitment to knowledge in these areas, where the greatest economic and social returns can be obtained. This must be understood by companies and research agents, and for this we are reviewing our research and innovation support programmes, in line with the principles set out in the Euskadi 2020 PCTI, and also seeking greater levels of excellence, closeness to the market and better results. As a result of all this review of our instruments, during this year, during 2015 and 2016, we are significantly increasing the total volume of R & D aid managed by this Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness, with growth rates, as I said, above 8%. There is therefore an increase in the contribution to innovation programmes, an assessment of their functioning, a adjustment, of course, of financing, with reference to the possibilities that each exercise allows, but not what we cannot accept is that there should be a new pact starting from scratch. The pacts have always been and will always be welcome, but, gentlemen of EH Bildu, gentlemen of the Socialist Party, we are in the execution part, not the elaboration of any plan. So let's get better about what's already going on, because it doesn't make sense to back down to start over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Corles. Passing to a group that hasn't announced any correction, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u42	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Mr. Counsellor, I am very grateful for your presence, because at least there is someone from the Government who is concerned about this matter. I was much calmer when he told us that the Councilwoman was unable to attend because of the change in the agenda, but I miss the Lehendakari, who is not, because I believe that this is a problem of sufficient silence, of sufficient importance for her to have attended this debate and the proposals made to her from the House, although we do not all seem to have the same opinion. The truth is that, given the debate on the 18th, Mr. Casanova, I did not doubt that you would have to submit a motion, since when you asked Mrs. Tapia she simply replied that everything is done, everything is going on, you have not studied it, you do not know, you do not know... Arguments that almost, more than to counter their approaches, were almost disqualifications. With good tone, but disqualifications after all. And I assure you that we were all waiting for your motion, but I also tell you that I expected a slightly tougher motion, and I will explain to you why. She ended her speech by saying that we are an example for Europe and that all of Europe looks at us, sees what we are doing – and it is similar to what Mrs Corrales has told us now – and they take us as an example. I don't know, I just didn't understand that argument. I do not know whether we consider Europe to be our enemy, who are our direct competitors, and then we sell that we are doing very well so that they imitate us and break down later and we stay with the markets, or that it is the companies that do not know how well we are doing, that we are a fantastic example, and it turns out that things do not go so well and make the decisions they make, as is happening to us. We can talk about Arcelor, we can talk about the ACB of Sestao, we can talk about the tube industry in Álava, especially in the Ayala Valley, Aernnova... There are many examples of companies that have not realized that we are pointers, that we are fantastic, that we do all things very well, but that leave. It must be that propaganda campaigns don't reach them. In the first part of your motion, Mr. Casanova, like Mr. Azkue's, I buy you the idea. Of course we are interested in supporting our industrial model, giving importance, boosting R & D+i, making an industry sustainable from all aspects. And that 3% limit, which seems to have already been exceeded, may have to be raised because it is not effective, or perhaps the data, like most data, is interpretable. That's what we bought, we all agree. The compromise I think is unanimous. The seventy-five members of the House will agree to support that part of the motion, and that is why I am now asking you to vote on points from the two proposals that you are making. But the second to me seems quite incredible to me, both yours and the proposal made by the Socialist Party. We are looking for a social pact, a pact or an agreement between companies, the university, our researchers, administrations and trade unions. A pact with the unions is impossible! Between the times that measure, or when the motion is asked to be carried out are virtually impossible, or totally impossible to comply with, because we are already finishing the legislature and opening up new debates will be very complicated, and the necessary calm for issues of importance that these have we will not find in pre-election time, that social pact with the representation of workers is impossible. Interlocution cannot be worse, and what the counselor denies us that there is work conflict. He was telling us about it the other day at the commission. She must be the only one who has not heard about the problems with trade unions. Let's not talk about public service, let's go to companies. She denied the other day in the committee that there was any kind of labour conflict, and that that had no impact on the closure of companies or the transfer of production to other sites. It seems impossible to get that pact within two months, and that is why I was saddened by the motion you two put forward. For the time being, and for trying to get something that's not true. We cannot deny that trade union conflictivity, which is bringing us all many problems. With regard to the motion of the Basque Nationalist Party, then, the truth is that if we are going to continue doing what we are doing, and saying that what good we are doing, then it scares me, because to those I have already listed, and others more than there are, who are more unknown by the size they are, then we must add a long list of companies that take the same path. Because the solutions that have been put forward here are not worth it. They're not worth it because a budget cartoon policy has been made, which are very nice, they're very fun, but it's a lie. The reality is that you put yourself in the budgets that you're going to do, you're going to do it, you're going to do it, but then you don't do anything. They're called technical inefficiencies, I think they said. 25, 30% of the budget, in areas such as this, so it seems to me that it is going to be something more than a technical issue. I'd rather call it absolute disinterest, or directly they've decided to throw away the towel. That is why we join the first point, and encourage them to modify the second point of both motions by doing something more concrete, something more constructive, something more truthful. Because to expect this government to reach a pact with the trade unions within two months, to bring it to us here and we can discuss it and make a plan for the next governments to implement it in the coming years seems to me to be an absolutely impossible issue to carry out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u43	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Passing on the answers, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u44	Mr de Arbulo, I will start with you in the first place to thank you for your solidarity with the invectives suffered by the counselor's hands or mouth, right?, which seems to be so convinced of the absolute goodness of your plans and the realities of your plans that the only way to disagree is not to know them. When clearly what we know are not only their plans, but the objective, measurable, measurable consequences on data, of those plans, or of the errors or shortcomings of those plans. And, since you have begun with that certain conciliatory tone, I will put to you that, if you do not believe in that second point, at least you abstain. That is, it is not their lack of faith that prevents this agreement from coming forward. Because in addition, regardless of the conditions for this plan to materialise within the time limits, I believe that the fundamental thing is to send a clear and strong message to society and a commitment from this House to this goal. I do not know if you know that when I introduced the motion, partly because of lack of parliamentary experience, I was heading the first point by mentioning that "all parties present in the House request it", and from the Bureau I was asked to correct it, because they said that it was an institutional declaration. And it is true that unconsciously that is what we were looking for with this proposal, a kind of solemn institutional declaration from this Parliament to commit ourselves to a goal. And in that sense, I urge you not to hinder at least that level. We will see how far we have come, and if not, we will take this agreement as a starting point in subsequent legislatures. Because what is really surprising, Mrs Corrales, is that your party, and the government that your party supports, accept with complete naturality that objectives set by the European Union are not going to be met, and that they do not even love to meet them. When we talk about that 3% – and we are not going to go into subterfuges with the data, we are clearly now at 1.90 – when we talk about that 3%, we are talking about developing a European objective. And we're talking about developing a goal that's complex. It's not making a flute sound as it goes down, like the ass in the fable. It is a complex objective, which if it does not arise is impossible to achieve. And you are consolidating the decision not to consider this as a country. And that is disheartening, that, in economic and social terms, is very bad news for this country, to renounce that leadership. Because the reality is that you in R & D programs are devoting less money than when you joined the government. They are devoting 147 million in their last budget to programmes such as Gaitek, Etortek and others, when 160 were spent in 2012. That's the balance sheet of your legislature. And then you can make videos – which you do but we pay for them all – with Mr. Urkullu permanently opening factories with a white robe, at a higher rate than Kim Jong-il's, and then kissing children and so on, but the reality is what it is. And the reality is that R & D is less invested than at the beginning of your term; that you have reduced – and that is the balance sheet of your thousand days – R & D, the budget that is invested in R & D programmes and the global budget that is invested in this area. I do not know whether it is an urban legend or whether it is real that there are people and groups who change their vote according to what they heard here in this House in the debates. I want to believe there's that possibility. I'm going to make an appeal for reflection. China has eight hundred times more inhabitants than the Basque Autonomous Community, one hundred and fifty times more GDP, and invests in research than we do (not only in absolute terms, but in relative terms). What rational argument can be given not to think that in a short period of time they will surpass us technologically and they will make products more advanced than us? Is there anyone who can think that, if you keep this distance, even increasing this distance between China and the CAV in terms of investment in R & D, we are not going to be late? And that story of dumping, that they produce cheap and that they pay few wages, and that there are no environmental or social conditions, which is partly true, how long is it going to last us, investing 257 billion dollars in 2012 in research and development in China? I believe that we have and have been able to reach a number of conclusions throughout this debate that I believe should be shared: industry is crucial for our economy, technology is crucial for industry; we are not giving the required level, we need to reach that 3% investment target with regard to gross domestic product in research and development, and that requires not a new plan, but a social pact that complements the shortcomings of the current ICTP. We have not tried to leave the Basque Nationalist Party out of this debate. He's self-excluded. We do not propose an amendment as a whole. We just want to make up for two elements that are obvious flaws in the current approach. On the one hand, the budgetary question, because it does not set the right objectives, and, on the other, the governance of this plan, which is proving incapable of involving third parties – not just the Basque Government – whose economic contribution is essential to increase investment in this area, to involve them in making greater commitments. That's what we proposed, and I find it disheartening to stay in the "everything's fine, Euskadi's fine."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u46	Bai, the president's walking. This government must endorse what is approved in this House, and vote on what is voted on by the PNV. This Government must comply with the non-legislative proposals passed in this House by a majority. And practically the explanation is that no, it doesn't matter. Practically, practically, I mean. Because there is something approved, and it is the innovation pact, with the same figures that are being proposed here today, by the way. With some delay in implementation by the Government, but with the same figures. It was approved by this House. Execute it. There's a theme... That's like the "be" high and the "be" low. Let's not do tricks on the tall "i" and the little "i"! The reality of R & D investments is here, it's from the Eustat, they're here. I'll leave them to you, I promise. I will make a photocopy and leave it to you, because that is the reality, and that is the only thing that moves us in relation to the adoption of this resolution among all of us. Because we haven't had the situation in our industry in two years! It hasn't happened! It's happening now, and it requires that effort, and if not, we're not acting right. If not, let's allow that reduction of the industry, reduction that in no case – and this is what I want to emphasize – can be accompanied by cuts in what we all say defend. But cuts that we don't make up either; that we would love them not to exist, but cuts whose figures I have given, from a department that has to ensure precisely the consolidation and the future of our industry. I think this is what we wanted to reflect, and EH Bildu's colleague expressed it without any kind of acrid, but asking for the sum, because it is not the same situation that we had two years ago than now. If the commitments... The commitments are the same, and what we ask of them is that they be fulfilled. And if not, I should have answered that there are no cuts that I have expressed here. Really, we'd love to say that college, or... "Shut up her honest unibertsity." We'd love to say that, but we just saw the data. Something will have to do with it. Something will have to do with, among other factors, the subject of what is being or is being devoted to research, and then what is being or is being transmitted from it. I'm going to set the example of Korea, to finish. Korea didn't know how to make boats 20 years ago. We had a well-prepared industry. Today, after many years of dedicated R & D & I, applied precisely to shipbuilding, Korea not only sells us boats, but sells us how to do them. That is what we intend with what we bring here today, that we remain leading in what needs to be done, that we continue to have above all that we have always had: a strong industry to truly maintain a strong Basque economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u47	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Corries, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u48	Thank you again, Mrs. President. Look, Mr. Casanova, we had doubts as to what motivated you to bring this motion, if the ignorance of the reality of the investment in research... or if what you're trying to do is put wrong messages in our society. So I am not going to question your work as a parliamentarian, because I think it devotes a lot of time and a lot of work to it; therefore, I am going to choose the second. I mean, you want to transfer wrong messages to our society. Because you haven't given me what I taught you in my first speech either. I'm not inventing the data! The Eustat says that in 2014 we already exceeded that 3% that you say, reaching 3.7%. Then I'm not making it up. You haven't beaten my data either; it's your data against mine. All they want is to misrepresent the information and transfer the wrong information to our society. Of course we don't give up on leadership! We do not say that we are not going to achieve or that we are not going to achieve the objectives. We are only saying that, as always, we will act decisively, accurately and with an important bet, which is what we are doing in recent years, but also realistically, Mr Bildu and Mr Socialist Party. With realism, because as far as financing is concerned, it has already been said more than once that, being aware of the conjuncture and the possibilities of additional economic contributions to the plan, the growth forecasts of our economy will mark the resources – of course not – that we have to be able to grow that investment, which, if possible, will be made according to the financing table that goes from this year to 2020. Then what we are in this government is realistic, and we move a real situation into society. That's our goal. I believe that you continue to focus on the R & D index to justify the 3% figure. According to the IUS 2015, for the first time Euskadi is equated with the group of European countries of high innovation, another of the demands they request in their motion. It is therefore also resolved, and this department and this Basque Government will follow. The Basque Autonomous Community is at the level of countries with high innovation in 2015, according to the European Innovation Index (EUI). In relation to 2014 slightly improves the value of the indicator, Eustat data. In the second group, countries with high innovation, there are those with a score between 90% and 120% of the European average. In this case the Netherlands, Luxembourg, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Belgium, France, Austria and Slovenia, with scores between 0.65 and 0.53. The Basque Autonomous Community, with a score of 0.50, would rise to 90.8% of the EU28 average. I do not invent it or invent it by this government: data from the Eustat, taken out this very morning. Many times this parliamentary group believes or feels that the groups present here do not appreciate the efforts made by companies for innovation. I believe that in Euskadi we are lucky enough to have a business fabric that is committed to innovation. Also with facts, much higher in this case than the European average. And today we were able to have breakfast with a news from the newspaper The Economist that says: "Euskadi manages to get the EU to finance 200 million R & D. This is a record figure in the history of Basque R & D+i. In the first two years of the European Horizon 2020 framework it has captured the equivalent of 42% of what has been achieved in the previous seven years." "... In just two years of the new European funding framework, a figure equivalent to 42% of all that was captured in the seven years of the 7th Framework Programme 2007-2013 has been achieved." Therefore, Mr Casanova, Mr Azkue, this country, Euskadi, is still working, with or without you. Companies bet, they're still betting on research, with or without you. Euskadi is absorbing, as I have shown with this news, a large part of the European funds, with or without you. This country, Mr Casanova, Mr Azkue, will go ahead, as it has always done, with or without you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u49	Thank you, Miss Corles. Please be quiet about the others. Please, the rest of it, silence. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u50	Thank you, Madam President. So I repeat the arguments I used in the first round in this speech. It seems that, as Mrs Corrales has not mentioned, the social pact proposed by the opposition groups is impossible, because she has made no mention of it. It must also be true that about 30% of the budget of Mrs Tapia's department, which is dedicated precisely to promoting, setting up new businesses, R & D & I, promoting the country's work and wealth, has not been implemented, and must be exclusively a technical issue, because she has not answered any of this either. He insists that this was already discussed in 2015, on 30 April. If the request is repeated in this Parliament, it will be because nothing has been done, and because indeed the budgets we have in progress, I repeat to you again, are cartoon budgets: very nice, which in essence amuse, but they are a lie and serve absolutely nothing. I think it would be necessary for them to do a little self-criticism, because things aren't all right. Entrepreneurs think things aren't going well, and that's why they close and leave, some of them. But what we would have to do is tend to come new, not lose the ones we already have. The workers are not happy, the unions are not happy. We see them every day when we enter this House to work; we see them in the press. We all have relatives, acquaintances and friends in very sensitive situations due to the crisis and that the necessary measures have not been taken. The Government does not have the magic wand to correct all mistakes, but, of course, what has been done is not well done. And if you tell us that in spite of all that we meet all the objectives, we are fantastic and we are the example of Europe, you should do a press campaign, with some legal press group, that yes, I do not argue, transferring companies and workers that things are going very well and that all the objectives have been met, because they have not been found out, our economic growth has not been found out, our employment growth has not been found out. Tell it to you, do more campaigns (come elections, no one will be surprised), because things don't work out well. And indeed, Mr Casanova, this should be an institutional statement, but it is not. It's not. Because I want to be prudent, well, from my group we want to be prudent, and we cannot bet on that second part of the amendment, which, of course, has our abstention, because it is impossible for them to comply. This Government does not have any social dialogue, they do not talk to trade unions, they do not talk, they have stopped talking, with which it is difficult that in a month or two months they bring us any kind of plan to debate in this Government. And the attitude of the group that supports the Government, logically, makes it impossible for that issue to change, because self-criticism does not exist, and the desire to improve neither, because we are going to follow as we are. We're not gonna get any better. Although it was true that everything has been done well, that I do not say much less than everything that has been done has been done wrong, but they could look a little bit around them, see the situation in which we find ourselves, try to correct and try to improve. Therefore, if you accept the point vote, we will vote in favour of the first and abstain in the second. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u51	Thank you, Mr. Ruiz de Abulo. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the Middle Amendment signed by the Basque Socialists. You've been asking for stitches, right? The first and the third point, and the second the other? Yeah? Good. So, we vote first and... No, no, you too, do you? Then the first, the second and the third? No problem, right? Well, let's vote. We'll vote first for the first half-way. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 75; the supporters 75; the opponents are 0; the white ones, 0; abstentions, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u52	The first point is unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the supporters, 38; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; the abstainments are 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u53	So it's accepted. And finally the final point, number three, we vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 75; the partisans of 48; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; abscesssion, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u54	So this third point has been accepted. Next we shall discuss the seventh point: "The other proposal of the Social Socialists as a team of Parliaments is to plan economicly and socially to push the region affected by the crisis of steel. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made this proposal is Mr. Azkue, the Basque Socialist, who represents the team. Mesedity, isiltas una denok.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u55	Mrs. President, Mr. Toña, members of the legislature, good morning again. The members of the legislature, for some, not so urgent, as we proposed on March 18th. 35 days later, we all know what landscape we are in front of, and it's unfortunate that those who know are also workers of the Seat of the ABCs, workers of the Hautal Hauttal Hague, the Mayor Zuinga and his assistant, who are among us. And it is not only the direct workers who are affected, as we have been repeating in this House, but also the eventual ones, those of the auxiliary industries, and those who are affected by the situations of these crises in the localities and their regions: hospitality, commerce, transporters, ports. Governments, as well as our own, must be predictors in order to be effective, and in our view, in the view of the socialists, the Basque Government is late and wrong in the response that an executive must give to the problems that arise. He's got them on the double. I was telling the lehendakari, and I'm telling you all again. How easy it is to rule wrapped in the cloud of the "everything goes well", even if there are symptoms of drunkenness, until it is discovered that for things to go well it is necessary to have strategies prepared, and it is not useful to hide in the calima. Bruma doesn't let her see it, but when the blouse is gone, it shows what reality is like. And the government is late and wrong, because no one can deny that there have been the problems of the steel industry for more than a year, and that it has not acted in the face of what was coming. Socialists will defend any effort that is made to maintain jobs in the steel sector, but we do not want to be accomplices in strategies that seem something, resolve nothing and shield themselves from blaming others, without offering alternatives. And much of this is in the recent government movements in recent weeks, which have sounded more like it than it does. For our part, we have stepped on Sestao, Zumarraga, Brussels; also the Government. And today we are transferring ideas to the Basque Government for it to take them seriously and, in everything within its reach, to turn with the affected populations and regions. Socialists believe that the Basque agenda today should be in Brussels, Madrid and Vitoria. The agenda of the Basque workers of Arcelor, of the Basque workers of their auxiliary and subcontracting companies, the agenda of the Basque families affected in these regions, the agenda of the life of the neighbours of these regions. It is not possible, as we listened to the Lehendakari yesterday, to demand promptness from others, who must indeed act, and not fulfill their duties at home. You can't pretend that citizens constantly buy that we are good here, and that it's others, the ones outside, the ones who fail. And we have also seen in the last few days, surprisingly, that others believe that the Basque agenda in these matters only has to be brought to Congress, while here, in this House, they do not explain anything to us, they do not propose anything to us, if it is not on the initiative of the opposition. And more surprisingly, we have seen how the party that supports this government protest that in Madrid the other government did not consider that its doubts were answered urgently and deserved an answer. Surprisingly, yes, because here it was the PNV and the PP who considered this debate today not urgent. It is also very surprising that this government assumed as a victory that the PNV agreed in Madrid with the government of Mariano Rajoy the law for the guarantee of supply and increase of competition in the island and extrapenisular electrical systems. Two years ago our government announced to us that with this regulation the companies would see their bills lowered, and that that was in favour of the competitiveness of our industry. Well, in view of the very arguments that our Executive is now using with insistence, it is seen not to. Otherwise, we wouldn't be repeating out here that we have to check those rates. We are also surprised by the mix of varied messages in statements and headlines that are read or heard. From "this government can't do, or little can do," to "this government has a plan." Between these two sentences he spent a weekend, and, to be so serious, little reflection seems. But then it was clarified that no, that it appears in this debate with Arcelor that you have been here since September, and that all this time you have not opened channels of communication with the rest of the institutions, including this Parliament, to articulate a real plan for the viability of Zumarraga, and to confront in the regions affected by the steel crisis plans of action, diversification, investment, alternative studies that first minimize and then establish policies of industrialization and modernization. And this attitude is surprising, when, if we have been able to do well in this country, it has been when we have been able to work together, whether in health, in education, in linguistic policy or in industrial reorganisation of the country. All that was done adding up, in years that we all remember. Then we design policies and alternatives for the future. Not now. This Government is dedicated to managing as it can what happens, but it needs to look beyond, it needs to seek complicity. Because, once again, we say that there is a problem with China's dumping, that Brussels should act swiftly to react, that in Madrid we need an accomplice government in the defence of the sector. And what else? Eta guk zer? I was telling the Councilwoman (ongi etorri) Tapia at the appearance we had in Parliament a few days ago, and I repeat it in another way here. Do you really believe this Basque government that little can do? Because socialists think we don't, that we have a lot to do. This Parliament, without the vote of the PNV, has already agreed that we must articulate accompanying protocols for workers from companies in crisis. They told us no, and today we know not that there was a manifestation of an EAJ leader saying yes, but that it is done. We approved it because it was necessary to do so, and as the first point of the amendment we have had to do today. Because, in addition to the companies that are today in headlines (expressed again our solidarity and commitment to the workers of ArcelorMittal of Zumarraga), there are other companies that are astounding in the coming months with uncertainties. And in these companies there are workers who know first-hand things that sometimes run away from an administration, because they are inside and because they have a negotiating experience that needs to be valued. Without its support, without the support of the PNV, this Parliament agreed to make specific training plans for workers in ERE, in order to adapt their knowledge to the new developments and challenges to be presented. They said it couldn't be done. Almost two weeks ago, we read a qualified institutional leader who said that it was necessary to do so. As it has to be, because what else are active employment policies, career paths, those functions that Lanbide has assumed? Although I already know that talking about Lanbide today, with what happened yesterday, it also has quite unreasonably in itself, until you clear up. Believe yourself once that we have skilled workers in these industries, and that they have shown their commitment to adapt to the difficulties and to take them forward. Believe it. You believe in the workers, who do not, at least with the necessary conviction. And we add to those mandates from which you have disagreed what we put forward today. Because from the Socialist Group – I said at the beginning – we will turn to sincere and serious efforts, not propaganda. We are the ones who have favoured the budgets, and we tell them that we are prepared to review the items that were needed to make what we agreed a few months ago more effective. We facilitate effective departures, not to put them in a power point and say how much we budget, although this does not correspond to what is being implemented, as has been shown in the last year. And he does not fail to draw attention to the fact that, knowing how you had known since September what was happening in Zumarraga, you would not miss out on the alleged plans that you would have put forward in the draft accounts. Well, today we propose that, if there is a serious proposal, agreed with the representatives of the workers and negotiated with the company with agreed commitments, and this was stated by the councilwoman, let us reorder if necessary the appropriate budget lines that will save the steel sector. We propose that in a complementary way, and knowing that the threats will be permanent in this globalised market, in two months they present to this Parliament an agreed plan with parliaments, affected municipalities and workers' representatives, and we present plans for dynamism and economic and social impulse in the areas of influence of companies affected by employment regulation dossiers, which are almost all those related to steel. We urge you to discuss future guarantee plans with the owners of our steel industry as soon as possible, and with the map of plants in hand. And yes, we also ask you to look into the possibilities of European aid, as we have already asked you without new news, and to correct your own agreement on electricity tariffs. And we ask Brussels to move once and for all in the face of China's unfair competition, or the new Chinese that may appear. To have a high eye is not to look further, to Beijing, Brussels or Madrid. To have a high eye is to see who are closest to the hundreds of families in Zumarraga, Sestao or Amurrio, who fear a fright in their plants and a general decline. With this transacted amendment we put our disposition to work that commits us all. Work quickly to prevent you from leaving Euskadi now, and to build an alternative future always. And the others are willing to fight, with or without you, even if we prefer that the "with or without you" be no longer used and that it be together, as is the case today, that we bring solutions to the crisis we are experiencing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mr. Casanova, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u57	There is a place in Greece, specifically in the oracle of Delphi, where there is a stone called the omphalos, which means "the navel", where mythology says that Zeus set the center of the world. I know that there are some or some who think that the blouse should be somewhere else, that Zeus was wrong, that the blouse should be located in a building in the district of Abando, specifically in Sabin Etxea. But the world is wider, and we all fit. There are many opportunities to disagree among the groups that we are present in this House, but there are also opportunities to agree, and sometimes there are opportunities to agree on some aspects even though it differs in others. And, indeed, there are issues that I prefer to bring forward with you, with you and with you, because I think that sometimes collaboration is more effective than sterile dispute. And I am also not afraid that we will end the discussion, because I think we have enough differences as regards the model of country, of society and of conceiving politics as to have discussion for a while. I therefore believe that we need to know when we need to focus on this debate and when we need to focus on the search for agreements. And I think this was precisely one of those second moments, one of the moments when we have to put on the table a message of unity and a message of support for people, businesses and sectors who are having a bad time, specifically in the steel sector, but a solidarity that from this House, or at least from this rostrum, I extend to all people who for different reasons related to the socio-economic situation are having a bad time right now. I said that it is time for the agreement, which does not mean that it will not include certain criticisms that I consider important in my speech. Reviews addressed to both the Basque Government and ArcelorMittal. Critics that have to serve as a prologue but that, as I said before, do not have to assume and of course our group have not been an obstacle in agreeing an agreement that in its terms is correct, appropriate, and we believe that it is the agreement that this moment and this situation demanded. The Basque Government has something to blame for managing this crisis. We believe that it has been late, that it has been late and bad in some respects. They said that in ancient China doctors charged when patients were healthy, and when they were sick they stopped charging. Unlike what we're doing here. And it is that the role of a good doctor has this issue in its heart: the role of a good doctor should be to prevent fundamentally. And indeed in this life there are things that are hardly predictable, but others, fortunately or unfortunately, see themselves coming from afar. And what is happening to the Basque steel sector cannot be said to have been a sudden and sudden crisis. We know that this government not only had a perfect record of the global landscape of this sector – like others we have already mentioned in previous interventions, such as oil & gas, which may be affected by global crises – but also had a perfect knowledge of the situation of the two plants that have been the first to fall into this crisis, both the Sestao ACB and the Zumarraga plant. We know that he was aware of that situation, and we know that he did not know how to act with due diligence at the right time, and now he comes to go quickly and running, when we already have the EREs or the closing threats on the table; acting with improvisation and many times, not only from the government, but from its surroundings, carrying out maneuvers of bad taste, such as the leaking of the news that the agreement for the reopening of the ACB was closed on the very day on which the closure of the Zumarraga plant was consummated. A leak of an agreement that unfortunately..., and we'd like to say otherwise, but unfortunately it's not yet closed, and making that kind of games seems to play with people's feelings. Arcelor has to blame things, too. We must reproach him that, as a leader of the Basque Nationalist Party said the other day, he acted as a heartless multinational. What happens is that some have taken a while to find out that that was the case. Indeed, it is a true pleonasm, a redundancy, to say that a multinational has no heart. Of course he doesn't have a heart! He's only got a pocket. And you really have to treat them carefully, you have to treat them like when you feed a beast, because sometimes it can bite you. We believe that Arcelor has undertaken an undercover process of concentration of production in those factories that offer greater profitability in the short term, and that this is precisely what lies behind the situation that is being experienced both in Sestao and in Zumarraga. This comes after a previous abandonment of these plants, after a mismanagement, after a lack of commitment, after an accounting engineering, in some cases, to try to widen the losses and make closure decisions more digestible to the public, and after not giving an adequate workload. But, as I said, the criticisms do not have to monopolize the current intervention, especially because we have in our hands an agreement in which we have indeed made, all of us who subscribe, an effort to give it an inclusive character, and to give priority to sending a message to the workers, as I said, and to the whole of society, that things can be done, and that we have drawn up a list of those measures that can result at the moment, and in the face of a crisis that is causing serious conditions, can be useful in trying to reverse it. But above all, and as I said at first, it would be good to have the philosophy of prevention, of the Chinese doctor who charges because his patients do not get sick, and not go after the problems. But he said that there are such measures, and those measures are timely and I believe they can be highlighted and enhanced. Firstly, and logically, as it cannot be otherwise, we must get to work. You have to take off your jacket – and I'm talking again..., I don't have any obsession, but I'm talking again about that thousand-day commemoration – you have to take off your jacket not just to get more cool in the videos, but to get around and really work on the ground. And we must try to save the ACB factory, the Zumarraga factory and the rest of the factories that may be in danger, because things can and should be done. And indeed – and this is a point that we attach great importance to – if this requires changes in the budgetary area, that is, if it requires new investments, we believe that we must be prepared to do so. We also consider the second point of this motion to be very important, because it deals with three important issues. Firstly, the dynamism plans for the affected areas, and two other issues that are also important: including... and I think I may not be fully informed, but I believe that for the first time we are talking about the perspective of local development in a statement by this Parliament, and we believe that it is a concept to be worked on and developed, and thirdly the parliamentary presentation that is being developed for the study of the socio-economic situation of Ezkerraldea, Zona Minera and Oarsoaldea is being highlighted. I think those elements are important, because they give us an approach to how things should be done. And, precisely on the subject of issues that have been discussed here at other times, things have to be done in a collaborative way, integrating into the design and implementation and governance of projects all the actors involved, and it cannot be done uniquely and exclusively from the top down. And, therefore, we believe that this second point gives us some very interesting keys. Thirdly, we also demand that any undertaking which is the subject of or receives any form of public aid must make a number of commitments relating to employment and territory. You can't give... And, although we understand that in crisis situations we are all likely to try to help the factory not to close, so that the factory does not close, but in fact there must always be the counter-performance and the counter-weight that the company receiving such aid is committed to maintaining employment in the territory. And, as we said, ArcelorMittal has already created enough doubts for us not to trust them at all and to demand that any help and any work be matched by this aforementioned commitment. We are also talking about recycled steel, and it is a concept that is unfortunately little known, but that we should use this crisis by making the need for virtue as a lever to enhance a product that is manufactured here in Euskal Herria, is manufactured in the factory of Sestao, which is a product that converts waste into steel, that is, that makes the recycling cycle precisely and uses for it a lower consumption of resources and energy. And we believe that this kind of practice needs to be improved. We believe that it is an unknown element, that of recycled steel, and we believe that it is necessary to move towards European state authorities to value the use of this product which is produced in the factory, in the ACB factory in Sestao. We also understand that it is important to ensure the presence of the Basque Government in all forums, and more understanding, and despite the distances and criticisms, but understanding that it is up to the Basque Government to take the initiative on such issues. And, as we said, more understanding the mutis by the forum, the painful absence that has occurred on the part of the minister of the branch in the Spanish State. We thought the minister was in Babia and it really looks like he was in Panama, but he was certainly out of the steel crisis. They have even had reflections, in this headless ministry, to ask that the emission of ETB in Nafarroa be cancelled, but they have not yet been told that here we have a crisis, and very serious, in the field of steel. I should like to conclude by mentioning the last points, such as the use of all types of aid that are not considered as State aid to strengthen economic development and to assist the companies and industries in the country; to deal with the situation of handicap, which is the electrical cost overrun for energy-intensive companies, and finally to deal also with dumping practices – the question of China is often mentioned, but dumping practices in general – and unfair competition that may exist. Finally, I want to thank you for this point, and I haven't had time the other day, but I do it twice, thanks when they've had the attitude, the attitude of the other teams, the attitude of bargaining, and agreeing, and even when they haven't had any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u58	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u59	Thank you. Madam de Table, chief of departments, fellow members of the legislature, good days to all. The situation that has been given in the Uscal steel sector, and which has been given in the Arcelor, demands a bold and zealous initiative, a share between corporations and unions and institutions. We can't accept moving outside the Eucharadia and closing. We have to guarantee that all options are open. We're aware that the shared activity of workers and institutions is a oven to work with social responsibility on any of the possible two scenarios. Today we're betting on the maintenance of regional industrial activities and jobs. We can't predict other scenarios and guarantee the future of our industry. In the technology driven to digest, in more valuable products, the eucalyptic steelsmiths could be globally competitive and in many cases. These are all the words of the Basque Government's Counsellor for Economic Development and Competitiveness last week in a parliamentary committee. It would suffice to show the commitment that the Basque Government and this parliamentary group have to the steel industry in Euskadi. However, in order to cover the whole of what is set out in this GNP, it is worth briefly framing the matter. The Basque steel industry produces 50 % of the state's electric furnace steel and 10 % of the European Union, which makes it a third producer with a high level of export, and directly and indirectly employs 28,000 people. Invoicing exceeds €4.9 billion, and is 5.5% of Basque GDP, which very much symbolizes the weight of this sector in this country. Today the Basque steelworks, in a similar way to the European steelworks, face an enormously complicated scenario. The 2008 economic crisis has already left the Basque steel sector weakened, but competition from low prices and cheap imports is causing a crisis in the sector of enormous importance. According to Eurofer, Europe has already lost 85,000 jobs in the steel sector since 2008, mainly due to the collapse of overcapacity prices, reduced demand, and a flood of cheap imports. It is indeed the Chinese economy, and in part the Russian economy and its overcapacity, the short-term ram that is trying to dismantle the European sector and the Basque sector, to which we should obviously add the collapse of certain emerging economies and the cost of scrap that is forced to import. If the structural problem of a steel sector which is subject to the problem of high energy costs is added to these conjunctures, which are already causing damage, the damage increases enormously. Despite these problems, it could be said that although the Euskadi industry is not in crisis, even if it is affected by the global slowdown, the steel sector does have serious problems. And most importantly, there are people who are having a bad time because of this and who are therefore becoming the first concern of the Basque Government and of the parliamentary group I am representing here today. In this sense, it seems logical what is demanded in the GNP presented here, which does not mean that things are no longer being done, despite what is being said, at least as far as the Basque Government is concerned. On the one hand, the global problem of the steel sector is being addressed in the Basque Country, which is part of the general context of the European crisis, mainly due to Chinese dumping, and, on the other hand, the realization of the problem of a plant such as Zumarraga, which, apart from the general problems of the sector, accuses the crumbling of its natural market, which is nothing other than that of construction, to which in this case there is a lack of decisions and investments on the part of the company. Although the cases of Sestao and Zumarraga are different, the Basque Government has come quickly to try to solve both problems, regardless of whether they have been helped for a long time from R & D programmes, from clusters, etc. In recent weeks, concrete circumstances have been addressed with a significant number of efforts and contacts which your ladies and gentlemen have already known. As an example, if, on 21 January ACB de Sestao paralyzed its activity, on 27 January that same month the Lehendakari, together with Councilwoman Arantxa Tapia, met in Brussels with both the Commissioner of Energy and the Chief of Staff of the Trade Commissioner, to address both the energy costs and the problem of Chinese dumping. And already on February 8 was constituted the Steel Bureau, in which company, trade unions and government analyze the affection of energy costs in the Basque steelworks. I mean: After the first minute of the Euskok has taken over all the responsibility, and he's working for the steps that the company was giving him, or at least for the destruction of the damages he can do. In order to avoid the shower of other countries already mentioned, and in addition to the need of the Spanish Government to direct the electric tariff (for that is what disturbs the competitiveness of our companies), we requested that the work which M. In addition, in our amendment, we call on the Government to take the lead in the outlying and municipal institutions affected by this steel crisis in order to put in place joint regional dynamism plans, asking them to include in them the work that is being carried out by the parliamentary presentation on the areas of Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea, because they must be regions with objective criteria for their classification as disadvantaged, because in any case, if it is a single undertaking, it is the one to be addressed by the recovery and restoration work. Finally, and without ceasing to have its relevance by quoting it at the end, we ask the Government of Spain to facilitate the presence of the Basque Government in all the forums in which the steel sector is discussed. When Euskadi is the main one affected by a crisis, logic requires that the leaders of Euskadi be those who participate in the forums of exchange of views or in the forums of decision-making. Only from the direct involvement of the directly involved administration can the problems be addressed with the knowledge and sensitivity and with the complicity that these problems, and especially those of the steel plants of Sestao and Zumarraga, deserve. Once our amendment has been tabled, we have offered to negotiate, as it could not be otherwise, and the result of such negotiations is only the compromise amendment that we have signed with the Socialist Party and Bildu, in which the Basque Government has accepted, on the one hand, the presence in the steel fora – as I mentioned a second time ago – and it is proposed to link the aid with the territorial commitment, so that the R & D aid, which is essentially the aid given in these cases, is returned in the event of closure or relocation, also following the criteria already established by the European Union itself. And it is that we have reached this agreement because from the beginning we have understood, in the parliamentary group EAJ-PNV which I represent, that, given the situation created in the steel sector in Euskadi, and given the consequences that such a situation is causing for workers and their families, a non-legislative proposal of these characteristics should be adopted with a clear majority of support for all those affected, a clear majority of support to be sought among all solutions, and a clear majority of support also for the Basque Government, which is on top of the subject from the very beginning and remains its priority, as the Lehendakari pointed out yesterday. And in view of that need to seek a broad agreement we have yielded, as surely others have yielded. However, and in addition to thanking the efforts and congratulating ourselves on taking a path together, I cannot help but comment that, ultimately, there was only one small loophole left to solve, that was nothing else to say, or that Parliament urged the Government to take action, or, as we suggested, that the Government should be asked to continue to take action. My proposal was not accepted, although everyone knows that the coordination of the sector with administrations and trade unions is already under way, that measures are being suggested, etc., etc. However, we have accepted the compromise, because we have understood that it is better, as I have already said, comprehensive agreements than semantic debates, more when everyone already knows that the lehendakari and the adviser, with their teams, have turned on the matter since minute one. Obsessing not to write what is obvious on the front pages of the newspapers, for, well, it could be said, at best, that it is subtly wrapped, but not enough to avoid signing an agreement that is good for the steel sector, for workers in ERE or in unemployment, and ultimately is good for Euskadi. That the government was already working, everyone knew. The important thing is that with this agreement you are encouraged to continue your work, such as today's Economic Development Advisor meeting with the Sestao ACB company committee. In short, what is important is that we jointly propose measures to be taken in order to move towards a solution, which Goethe has already said, that "let us not ask whether we fully agree, but only if we go the same way", which is what I believe we are going to approve today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potula team, Mr. Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning again. Good morning, Mrs. Tapia. I deeply appreciate your presence, even if you don't listen to me, but I deeply appreciate your presence. We would have liked it to have been in the previous debate, but we have already been told that it was dealing precisely with these matters. Mr Tellería, it has been very interesting the chronological relationship of how it has been discussed, how it has been reached the agreements point by point and with all luxury of details, but I thought that I would tell us how it was going to be put..., since you support, support or subject to the Government, I would tell us a little bit about how those points of the amendment were going to be carried out point by point. I thought so. The truth is that from the appearance in Mrs Tapia's committee I stayed rather with other words. Because I asked him why, if the problem is electricity pricing, if the problem is unfair competition that makes us from other steel producing countries, why ArcelorMittal decides to increase production on other plants and punishes us here, in Sestao and in Zumarraga. And you replied that it was a bad decision of the company the investment that was going to take place in Asturias, that it was a short-term decision that you did not share. I don't know if those are good arguments to sit down and negotiate with the company and ask them to open us up again Zumarraga. He also told us that he had a plan, that he was going to transfer a plan to them. Let's hope that in the next few days you can come here, or to the media or anywhere, and share with the company that actually resumes the activity, but I don't know why it gives me that joy won't be able to give it to us. The truth is, today it's closed. It is also true that we are told that direct jobs are not going to be lost, but they will surely be lost, and many, indirect jobs, and we are going to lose an important source of wealth. But perhaps this is not the time for criticism. I believe that today is the time to give him our support, to support this motion among all, and to move forward, let us hope, unanimously, that they can implement all the measures contained in it, in the same way that happened last week, or two weeks ago, at the Congress of Deputies in Madrid talking about similar issues, where there was an agreement of all groups on a proposal by the Basque Nationalist group, which affects this matter. I would indeed like this proposal to be adopted unanimously. It's possible that big problems... And so, when the workers of Sestao appeared, Mrs Corrales insisted that everything was the fault of Minister Soria, the Government of Spain and the electric tariffs, which were disastrous, were a horror. Well, I didn't know that the issue of electricity pricing was the exclusive competence of the country's government. I thought it was a legislative issue that could be addressed since the Congress of Deputies. There must be hundreds of proposals to do so already underway, in the situation of the current legislature, that we do not know what will last, whether it will last beyond next week or not, who has proposed that. And, of course, the groups have the door open to presenting those modifications that are real, so that we can effectively deal with the problems that our steel industry has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u62	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u63	Mrs. President. It's quieter now. Welcome back to Arzi Tapia, and say hello to the Mayor of Zumarine and to the assistant who's with him. This is the way, isn't it?, the way Mr Telleria proposed in relation to that walk together to solve the problems that must be anticipated and those that are. I have made a difference: before those who are acting, and what we want is to prevent it. Iker Casanova used to say that. Prevention and response to problems that arise and are known. Prevention and action, but also action in the problems that today with this crisis suffer, because for every day that happens... It was reflected well yesterday by a worker from Zumarraga, replying that he no longer worked in Zumarraga because he was on contract. This happens to the workers of ACB Sestao. There are contract workers who do not work, there are contracting companies to be supported, because, if not, we will try to help them when they die. I mean, your activity is in January, it's time to invest, it's time to set, it's time to help, to read what your position is in the present and help them to have a future, because they suffer, and eventual suffer. They suffer because they run out of jobs. Perhaps those are the differences, Mr Tellería, when we express the issue of what is being done, with regard to what should be done, humbly, from what we raise. And I think it is the pending subject, because unfortunately there is a situation of change to which we must further sharpen and respond from governments and also from these chambers, and it is globalization, its effects, our operation in the economy, in industry. That is to say, in the face of more complex problems than they were 20 years ago and which require prevention. To that prevention, to that action, to that provision of plans so that, if suddenly something happens in an area, we must have the appropriate measures to ensure that they do not sink and adopt, that is what the Socialists have come to today with this non-law proposal. And taking advantage of what you are, counselor – I said earlier – just scares us the way of the cuts, scares us the way not to execute the executable. I don't know if the data I'm going to give you are the real ones, I've said it before, but I take advantage that you're here. According to the budget analysts, no less than EUR 130 million, 27 % of their budget in their department, in the Department of Economic Development, has ceased to be spent. And, of them, the bulk corresponds to R & D (50.5 million), technology programmes (13), and 13 to the innovation fund. You were commenting on me at the appearance "Don't worry, you have destiny," you said in a way. For us the destiny is to act now, to use, and that is why in this GNP our clear disposition, assumed by all, is "Look, if you need to recompose the Budgets to give effective response to the problems we have, do it".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u64	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. From EH, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u65	In the discussion of the first point, Mr. Arbulus accused me with sportingness, from the discussion of several weeks ago in the state of industry, that the motion we have represented is too soft. He told me he hoped, from the discussion, to bring something harder here. And it is true: as the question was very extensive, the state of industry must also be divided. Don't worry, we'll get more suggestions. We think we should choose the most urgent, or if we start somewhere, the space of the strategic technology, but there are even more gaps to be filled in our industry, and especially if we talk about the politics of fun. A sign that was in many photocopy stores said: "We do the impossible immediately, we need a little more time for miracles." Then there are gaps, and there are many, and we will continue to offer proposals, as we have already proposed, or the proposition about the origin of a manufacturing faith, which we have already advanced and developed, and others which will come. It will not be us who say that nothing has been done, nor are we friends to deny bread and salt, nor to think that opposing is to oppose everything at first. Logically, in this aspect as in others, things have been done, and those things are there. What we understand is that our job is not to criticize everything, but to criticize what is critical or what is wrong, indeed. And in this case we believe that it is absolutely appropriate to criticize the attitude of the Basque Government, because it has come late. He has not had an action – as we also said in the interpellation to which I referred earlier – a proactive, but reactive attitude. And as a demonstration of this two examples, one referring to Sestao and the other referring to Zumarraga. In the case of Sestao it was more than forty days before the first meeting between the board and the works council took place. I have not reproached Mrs Tapia before for her absence because she was aware of the small problem that has been created for her with the change of order of the points, and I knew that she was meeting with the workers of ACB, precisely, among other things, because yesterday I too was meeting with the company committee. But it didn't take me 40 days. The same evening that the closing of ACB was notified, I contacted them to arrange an appointment. And I suppose if I had been a counselor or a counselor they would have given it to me immediately; since I am a humble parliamentarian, it took a few days, but certainly not forty. In the case of Zumarraga, if in this case we reproach a delay in the reaction, or at least in the reaction which must be of a more sensitive nature, which is to address in the first place and urgently to those most affected and affected, in the case of Zumarraga, and perhaps to compensate for that earlier delay, it was moved to hyperactivity in which it was reacted, it was wanted to give the image that it was reacting very quickly, but for this it was dusted a feasibility report that was expired and presented as a fresh product, something that really did not have too much viability, as evidenced by the declaration of the company itself and the trade unions. I therefore believe that the criticism is relevant. I have put just these two examples, I could put others more, but there is nothing else to see, on the other hand, that this criticism is shared by the whole of the Basque trade union spectrum, which has convened for this day 23 a demonstration in demand of a real industrial policy. And when a real industrial policy is called for, what one deduces from hearing that demand is that they consider that there is no real industrial policy. There may be a good communicative policy, a good sales policy, a good public reaction policy, but there is no good industrial policy or there is no real industrial policy, as we are shown by cases like this one said, which should have been attacked before they broke out in the form of closures. That event on the 23rd will certainly count on the presence of EH Bildu, because we share that message, we share that speech, and we share the need for that real industrial policy to be implemented. This is not an obstacle, as I said, so that above these complaints we can articulate, as has in fact been articulated, a battery of measures which I believe basically reflect everything that the different groups have been able to perceive in our relations with social agents involved in the issue. They collect more or less a state of matter, a state of alternatives more or less of a complete nature, because precisely it has been a work of collective elaboration. And I understand that this is a good starting point, although obviously some of the proposals requested here will be difficult to materialise. In that sense, just as our criticism and opposition on those issues that we consider to be wrong, they will also have the different actors involved, or those involved in this proposal to do things, they will have our support when they decide to take them forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u67	My dear chief physician, good noon again. I will insist, I want to value the agreement today. And I can respect it in some way, and it also seems logical to me, some criticisms... Criticisms are subjective, criticisms depend on the way you see, or the way you try to see, or that others see. Well, everyone does what... Mr. Arbulo, just one thing, eh! It has only referred to me in one thing, and I will make it clear: it is not up to me to explain how a resolution from this House is going to be managed, as it is certainly not going to be up to the Spanish Parliament to explain how a decision from there is going to be managed. Because, I can tell you, can you explain to me how you're going to manage the reduction of electricity tariffs the replacement of Minister Soria? No, you don't. Well, it doesn't belong to me either. I want to thank you... Mr Casanova, I thank you for the positive attitude, the constructive attitude. You're critical of some things and I'm fine with it, but you know the government was doing things. I also thank Mr Azkue that at least in the reply the attitude has changed, I don't know if because we were talking about love or because the counselor has arrived and then wanted to take advantage of it. But in any case, I thank you, because in the first, man, "the government is late and bad," "he hides in the fog," "seems more than he does"... Man, it's just, I don't know, it seems like you're one of those bad weathermen who knows how to explain what happened and blame your weather buddy who hasn't been able to prevent what was coming. Let's see, let's prevent it. Do you know we've been from the Nationalist Group at the Madrid Congress for years...? That you have also reproached, "Why are you going to Madrid and not coming here?". We go to Madrid to ask for things that can be arranged in Madrid, such as electric rates. Do you know how long we've been working on this? Do you know how long we are aware and the government is aware that this is a very serious structural problem for the steel sector, which weakens it, and that at the time of any small tremor of other characteristics, such as Chinese dumping, can cause the fall, as it is happening? It's just that you also have to look at what's going on outside, huh! We don't just fix it inside, because from the outside it's also due to globalization, among other things. Because, if we had warned so much, how many amendments were submitted from your parliamentary group to the budgets in the municipality of Zumarraga that had to do with the Arcelor arrangement? How many? Were we planning on what was going to happen in April? No, no, I mean, you're criticizing... But I will insist, I will insist. Today, I hope that we will adopt it unanimously. I am pleased with the position of the Group of the European People's Party, because it means that, although it has not signed or tabled an amendment, it will be pointed out. I hope that Mr Maneiro, from UPyD, will also point out. And this gives wings to the sector, this makes it important that we have agreed, giving in a little bit to each other and wanting to have put in another thing, but this is politics, this is making agreements, and this has to serve as wings to the government itself, to say, "I have the breath of the whole Parliament unanimously to cut things down there." From there we will have to wait for how they manage the resolution here, how the European Union manages what we are asking from here, and how the Spanish Government manages what we are asking from here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u68	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mr Ruiz de Arbulus, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u69	Thank you, President. Indeed, Mr Telleria, the tone is much nicer, that of everyone, than in the previous debate, but not because she is the counselor, but because here what we want is to close the ranks around the management that she has to do, and to indicate the way in which we understand that she has to direct her actions. I think we've all been very hard and very critical on the previous point. Too bad you couldn't hear us, but of course you will have any of your teammates who will explain to you what has been done and said here. I didn't mean to offend you, but I'm new to this House, Mr. Telleria. And I already know that it is not your job to tell us exactly how the motion is going to be carried out, but it is, of course, that we agree in many committees, and, as I usually see and hear you in your speeches and talk so much about the Government and the things they do, and sometimes it seems more about the Government than about one of the parliamentary groups, I thought I was going to continue with that dynamic today. And I see no, but, of course, it was not my intention to tell you what you have to do or what you do not have to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u70	Thank you, Mr. Abulo. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u71	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, Gorka Maneiro Labayen Mistto-UPy D's congressman, published by the Auscan High-Auscadian Social Discussion of the Social Inference of January 120/1616th General Gomendium, and the presidency of this serious problem on the measures of the Euskal AEuscade in the future. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and get rid of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u72	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselor, good morning. I would like to convey to all of you, in summary, the very interesting general recommendation of Ararteko 1/2016 of 26 January 2016, "Bases for the social debate on energy poverty in Euskadi", and from this recommendation and from the different contributions made by the different groups the transactional that we have finally signed some groups in this House. In the middle of the 21st century there are more and more people in Euskadi who face serious difficulties in maintaining an adequate temperature at home during the cold months, in particular more than 10% of the population. The 2014 Social Needs Survey on Poverty, a document prepared by the Department of Employment and Social Policy of this Government in order to analyse the various indicators of poverty and lack of well-being in Euskadi, incorporates two data that have experienced a significant increase in the period 2008-2012: the number of people who have problems keeping their home at an adequate temperature during the cold months in 2014 has reached 235,526 people, when in 2008 it did not reach 90,000, and, on the other hand, in 2014 the population affected by cuts in the supply of energy services at home, including water, light or telephone, was 38,255 people, compared to 35,191 in 2008. This indicator is known as energy poverty. Mainly it appears as a consequence of the lack of sufficient economic resources, but it can also be the result of poor objective housing conditions or the excessive price of energy resources. The fight against energy poverty is a social priority that must be assessed from all walks of life. It is therefore a question of implementing measures, specific actions that accompany existing public policies and social initiatives, with the aim of reducing and alleviating the effects of this phenomenon, which will affect – it is noted – more than 200,000 Basques and Basques this winter. Energy poverty is characterized in particular by a shortage of economic resources for people to access basic energy standards in their homes. Energy is an essential and indispensable common good, enabling citizens to live a dignified life and having an instrumental nature in effectively guaranteeing the right to adequate housing. The specific elements of this phenomenon take into account that the precariousness of energy resources is not only related to the economic situation of people. The need for energy is closely linked to the objective conditions of households, also to the conditions of the market for the provision of energy services. Thus, energy poverty does not only affect people with lower incomes, but can extend its effects to other groups. What are the factors that have an impact and that cause or may cause energy poverty? The increase in the energy bill, the economic crisis and the reduction of people's income, the increase in household energy consumption, the energy obsolescence of the building and housing stock. In addition, Ararteko highlights the opportunity for renewable energy and decentralised energy management, and also points to social policies aimed at paying the energy bill, which rightly points out that, in particular, social emergency aid is intended to meet specific expenditure of an ordinary or extraordinary nature necessary to prevent, prevent or alleviate situations of social exclusion. The Basque system of income guarantee has, of course, served to reduce the risk of energy exclusion in a structural way. It also points out (this is important) that, however, the data presented in the social needs survey do not leave room for doubts: despite the social aid system, there are still people and families who are subject to the phenomenon of energy poverty in winter. What are the consequences of energy poverty? The consequences are multiple and varied. It has an impact on health; it obviously has an impact on the quality of life and well-being of citizens; it has an impact on the most vulnerable consumers; it also has an impact on the environment. In many cases, the thermal inefficiency of households is leading to an additional cost, which not only has economic or social consequences, but also harms the environment. It has consequences, therefore, varied and multiple. This phenomenon known as energy poverty, therefore, requires a specific response through a concrete action plan, in order to try to prevent it and mitigate its concrete effects. An important step towards addressing this energy problem was taken by the European Union through the adoption of a series of Community directives aimed at regulating the energy sector and promoting energy saving and efficiency measures, which expressly consider the phenomenon of energy poverty. I will not dwell on them, but two of these directives have also been incorporated into the transactional, because we believe that they are very important to deal with this phenomenon. In Euskadi until a few years ago, energy poverty has been a relatively unknown phenomenon. It existed, but surely we were not aware that it did exist. Today, no one doubts the existence of energy poverty in the Basque Country. Also, of course, in other autonomous communities, but in this case we are concerned about the existence and suffering of Basque citizens in this community. Therefore, energy poverty has been acquiring more entities in recent times, and Ararteko also points out something he considers important: in spite of this, to date Basque public administrations have not been able to develop a specific global strategy to address energy poverty. It points out that they have not been able; in our view, we believe that all the public administrations have not wanted to deal with this problem, or at least have not done everything they should have done to deal with this problem, even though in this Parliament, especially for the past two or three years, there have been a number of initiatives that have raised this issue. We can also refer to a series of structural measures that have been taken to alleviate or prevent this phenomenon, as well as other more recent measures to date to respond specifically to energy poverty in the Basque Country. Some things have been done, some measures have been taken, but it is clear that they have been and are being clearly insufficient. Thus, structural measures have been put in place to alleviate energy poverty within social policies, structural measures to prevent energy poverty through policies for the rehabilitation of existing buildings, structural measures to prevent energy poverty through policies for information and advice to energy consumers, and other measures. In addition, a few parliamentary initiatives have been discussed in this Parliament, most of which have not been carried out, despite the fact that they have been adopted, by this Government. But it is true that in recent times there have been different groups that have raised this issue, because it seems to us to be an extremely important matter. Ararteko points out a number of principles to be taken into account in the action plans against energy poverty: the principle of speciality in the fight against energy poverty, the principle of intervention in favour of vulnerable groups, the principle of guaranteeing access to basic or vital energy supplies for citizens, the principle of preventing energy exclusion, the principle of saving and reducing consumption, the principle of sustainability of measures, the principle of public intervention, the principle of social consultation, and the principle of citizen participation. From there, Ararteko puts forward a series of proposals for action and recommendations against energy poverty, in particular in three areas. In the area of regulation of the energy sector and of the most vulnerable consumers, in particular the establishment of a plan to combat energy poverty in the Basque Country, and the definition of the vulnerable energy consumer likely to suffer from energy poverty. Measures also aimed at protecting the most vulnerable energy consumer, in particular ensuring the supply of energy to the most vulnerable groups and the right to adequate information from the perspective of the most vulnerable energy consumer. Measures to improve energy efficiency in households and buildings affected by energy poverty. Conduct energy audits for the most vulnerable clients, study of the energy efficiency of the public protective housing stock, support for energy rehabilitation for the most vulnerable groups. And finally, social measures to alleviate the effects of energy poverty. Social emergency aid aimed at the energy efficiency of households affected by energy poverty, and linking aid to energy saving. In the light of all the points made in this recommendation, and in the light of the reply given by the Councilman a few days ago in this Parliament, we tabled a motion in which we basically asked the Government to draw up and present in this House, before the end of the current session, a comprehensive strategy to tackle energy poverty in Euskadi. A comprehensive strategy, because there is indeed much to be done. And, in view also of the interesting contributions made by the different groups, we have finally signed a transactional, a transactional that I think is very reasonable and that incorporates what we think the Government should do to deal with this phenomenon. That says this: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government: To establish, at the current session, indicators on energy poverty according to which a diagnosis of people in energy poverty and an assessment of the measures implemented so far". Two. "That, on the basis of the previous diagnosis, a comprehensive strategy to address energy poverty in Euskadi, based on the arguments and proposals for action of the Ararteko recommendation (...) and the resolution adopted at the monographic session of 7 November 2014 on poverty in Euskadi, related to the fight against energy poverty, should be drawn up and presented to Parliament before the end of the current session." In particular, number 42, which was not complied with by the Basque Government and which stated exactly the following: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to establish a comprehensive policy to combat poverty in the family, which responds to the different manifestations and sectoral consequences of poverty: young people, women, the elderly, energy poverty, etc.". And finally, we urge the Basque Government "to develop, in compliance with the provisions of the European directives (...), an appropriate regulatory framework, defining vulnerable customers and, with the aim of protecting them, defending the obligation to ensure minimum electricity and gas from energy companies", obviously within the scope of our competences. This is all we propose. I think that's a good approach. I think it would be a significant milestone if this Parliament could approve this transaction with as many votes as possible. The Basque Nationalist Group is certainly not voting in favour of this initiative, but I believe that, if we are able to urge the Basque Government to do all this and to present this comprehensive strategy in this House as soon as possible, we will have made much progress on a matter that is increasingly of interest to the political parties and of course to all Basque citizens. Nothing more, and thanks to the signatories of this transactional, and also thanks to the groups that will finally vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u74	Yes, thank you, ma'am. Chief physician, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good noon. Today, again, we are discussing poverty with the neurotic. Unfortunately, this phenomenon is more and more common to the people. Family, it's a serious problem that many people are suffering. Mr. Maniro has mentioned numbers, we will not repeat them, but they are certainly to be considered the data. Due to economic crisis, the grades of every person and particularly the useful income of weak collectives have been lowered. And this situation has prevented a lot of people from paying their most urgent expenses. We have more and more people among us in the danger of poverty, thanks to the economic model. And in front of that, the power bill went up 60% years ago. What's going on? Well, people who don't have enough income should be looking for a way to maintain their own housing and pay for ordinary expenses, and that they usually have to choose between buying food or paying energy bills. But EH recruits clearly shows that the problem is not only to be in the state of income or preparation, because the problems of extreme poverty are different points. We cannot forget that the same energy model directly influences the causes of energy poverty. Ararteko himself says in his resolution that the cost of energy services has favored their consumption rather than their savings. It also highlights the situation of the built housing stock, a park that with regard to the new technical requirements of energy efficiency is obsolete. Like EH Bildu, Ararteko also sees as an opportunity the use and use of renewable energy and decentralised energy management, not only because of its clear environmental benefit, but also because of its impact on the reduction of the invoice. Therefore, if we want to deal effectively with the problem of energy poverty, let us not do so simply in the light of one of the causes. As has been remarked, the use of extreme poverty is produced by different factors, and in contrast to different factors, different guiltys and different solutions. So let's consider these three important factors: the economic state of weak consumers, the state of the housing park, and the senior model. On the other hand, we can't forget that when we talk about "the weak consumers" they are people. They are people who cannot guarantee an adequate temperature in their homes, and that certainly has harmful consequences for their health. And we talk about both physical sequelae (cardiovascular or respiratory problems) and sequelae and psychological problems. These vulnerable consumers are people who receive an irritating wage, long-term unemployed, or pensioners who receive a miserable retirement, or those who remain outside the social protection system. Those are the vulnerable consumers, who with a single source of income often have to keep more than one living unit. That's why EH Bildu seems to have always, always present to these people, to avoid falling into the temptation to talk about energy poverty in an abstract way. And in this case, what is the work or proposition we can do in the legislature? First of all, we must say that we agree with the general recommendations of the Ardal, which are mentioned today. It is true that in this report the contrary activities, proposals, and recommendations are present. But EH Collect was more accurate. Therefore we, by the correction of the whole, have tried to stop it in both its fundamental parts. We believe, on the one hand, that it is essential to have a reliable report to determine the indications of my extreme poverty, such as we should certainly identify the victims of neurogentic poverty, and to determine the measures of their departure from their condition. It would be the first logical step we should take because we need the exact picture to identify this collective and get out of the situation. And on the other hand we thought it advisable to stop at a consideration that Ararteko has also made. We are referring to the two Community directives to regulate the common rules on the energy market in the electricity sector (which is 2009/72) and natural gas (which is 2009/73). We must remember that these two Community directives already contain certain public service obligations which apply to each of the Member States. That is why we feel it is appropriate to develop an appropriate regulatory framework, defining the customers, the people who are in a vulnerable situation, in order to be able to give them the protection they deserve, and then to be able to impose on energy companies the obligation to ensure a minimum of electricity and gas. In these corrections, then, the states are told that the bases must be defined and protected. It is evident that the just factors of the European Union forbid energy contests in the case of the vicissital client, and thus they are responsible for the prepresence of energy. In the same way, we have to report the energy presence today. For they use an essential resource to make business, regardless of the fact that the state of people who are suffering is cut off by their energy. This is what we want to change, as well as others. Mr Maneiro has already told us about a compromise amendment that has been signed by three groups. I am not going to stop at this moment to explain it because it has already done so, but I do want to say that point 1 certainly contains what EH Bildu came to say, in one way or another, in our first point of the amendment to the whole. As we said, those specific indicators on energy poverty and a diagnosis of those people who are in that situation, so that they can act. Point 2 refers to that Ararteko resolution, which we have also said we share. And we are also talking about the resolution adopted on energy poverty in the monograph plenary on 7 November 2014. Well, of course, we agree. We approved and supported that amendment, and it was also we who proposed that full monograph. In point 3 the two European directives I have just explained, which were also included in our amendment to the whole of the second point, are word for word. We will therefore support this compromise amendment. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u76	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, almost, everyone. Indeed, energy poverty is once again part of the parliamentary debate. On this occasion, Mr Maneiro brought a motion following an inquiry which was debated two weeks ago in the plenary session. "More than 5 million citizens cannot heat their homes in winter." Thus begins the study developed by the Association of Environmental Sciences and presented this same week in Madrid. And, obviously, they are not 5 million Basque citizens, but Euskadi is not an island, Mr. Counsellor, and there are many Basques – and the figure is growing – affected by energy poverty. This is a priority issue in the real Euskadi, on that Basque agenda that you so often name, and yet you have taken this issue out of importance. There are three determining factors, as has already been said, that trigger this situation: the low wages and the consequent fall in purchasing power caused by the economic crisis, the rise in energy prices, and the excessive energy consumption of low-quality housing. And in Euskadi, as I say, far from being an island, this problem exists. In this Parliament we have spoken not twice, not three times, more than twenty times in the last two years, about this new face of poverty. It has cost recognition of this reality by the Government, on too many occasions it was denied that this was happening, and that is why we have taken so long to start acting. Every day we know more studies, more reports and more data on the reality of households throughout Spain and also, of course, in Basque households, usually written and developed by organizations working in the field of poverty. Those who work with the most vulnerable groups made a long time ago a call for attention to the public administrations, and although today we can talk about 400,000 euros available to those in this situation, managed from the third sector, we must recognize that, although they help, they do not solve. The applicant profile has changed, although many factors continue to coincide. Four hundred thousand euros, if not for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, would have been zero, because you continued to disguise the ESAs to try to say that you were able to solve this problem. Here, in this House, it has been acknowledged that there is no database of Basque households at risk of this type of poverty; at the same time, the wrong idea has been repeated that ESAs could also solve this. And reality is far from this. Organizations working in this field, as I say, need to pay bills to those families who arrive and tell them that they are unable to do so. We must be able to identify the problem, and we must be able to put in place measures that can prevent the situation of non-payment of invoices. Some have started to do, but, as I say, late, and sometimes I could even tell you what's wrong. First it was a budget of 200,000 euros that took so long to arrive that it could not even be spent in its entirety and in part it was returned to the public coffers from which it came, because something signed in February did not arrive until November. Then, as I said to you now, a 400,000 euros game that was not delivered in time either. A question had to be asked to the Government in full control to speed up the process, accusing the organization that must manage it of not delivering a report that even I had. And before this problem there are different positions: look elsewhere, which is what your Government did until it was forced to start working on it; come up with a solution to the situation, or adopt structural measures that remedy dramatic situations that can be avoided by agreements and consensus and, of course, by legislation. Socialists believe in a law on vulnerable consumers and against energy poverty, a bill that we have already tabled in the Congress of Deputies and which has already received the first amendments. We understand the need for this law as a socially just and economically viable proposal to restore the lost dignity of millions of people, and although today it seems that this issue will be answered through a fairly broad consensus in this House, we will be waiting attentively for the explanation of the Basque Nationalist Party not to approve an amendment which also calls for compliance with the agreement reached in this Parliament, which is the resolutions of that plenary, that the directives adopted in Europe can be moved, and that a diagnosis be made of the situation from which we have the indicators, that we have the data, and that the Government will even be able to implement policies that can alleviate this problem more easily. On the part of the Socialist Group there has always been, and there is a desire for, agreement, because from there there is, as I say, that budget line, but it is true that this does not apply. We recognize that Euskadi probably does not have the worst data in this reality if we compare them with other autonomous communities, but it is also fair to say that the protection system of which the Basques and to which most autonomous communities look is not comparable to any other. That's not why one thing justifies the other. Since the first debate on this issue, the scenario has changed substantially. The families who come to the Red Cross window today have changed their profile. They are families that do have a payroll and that are not at risk of social exclusion, but that, even though they have a job, they are unable to reach those ESAs that you propose as a solution but which, however, cannot pay the bills. This Parliament is aware of the demands and social realities; another thing is for the government to look elsewhere. But on 7 November 2014 we celebrated a full monograph on poverty, and, among other resolutions, one related to this reality was adopted, which Mr Maneiro has already mentioned and which has also been included in the compromise amendment. We understand that it is fair to ask the Government to comply with parliamentary mandates. Nor are we surprised that they do not do so: most of the non-legislative proposals that you do not participate in the vote end up not fulfilling them. But it is also fair, and it is also the responsibility of the opposition, to demand that they comply. As we said in that plenary, we must be able to recover the quality of life of families and people. And, as we continue to debate here, we all know and know that the Spanish Government has more than doubled the weight of the contracted power in the final price of the light receipt, thus transferring the problem to the electricity sector, to the most vulnerable consumers and to renewable energies. That is, this issue should be far from ideological defence, and it should be a matter on the political agenda of each and every party. Today I do not know exactly what number, if 25 or 23, does energy poverty in this Basque Parliament. What surprises us is that when we have already discussed it so many times, when we have already managed to have a budget line in two budget years, when we have an organization like the Red Cross, which has data, knows families and is on the street and is helping families first hand, why this Government still does not want to join the agreement of all parliamentary groups, who say that this reality needs a response. And a real answer, going beyond the conjuncture or ideology. There are families who can't pay either the bills for the light or the gas bill, and this is more than unfair. Light and gas must be social rights, to which all families must be entitled. We live in an autonomous community with more than cold winters. And, although it is true that on this occasion there were €400,000 in February, we cannot forget what it took them to do in the previous budget. What we would like to see is that this issue should come at some point on the proposal of the Government, with a specific policy initiative. And at that time we will believe that energy poverty is created and that they are willing to put a solution to it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u77	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief physician, congressmen. Mr. Maneiro was urging him to discuss this motion, either from the recommendation of the intermediary or as a basis, which he had brought to us today. And the proposal was to meet an integrated strategy. That was what the original text demanded. It is true that we have discussed this subject several times in this chamber, and that we have had exact agreements. We may say that it is a remarkable subject, and especially a remarkable influence on the quality of men's life and dignity. This initiative, this motion that we are debating today in this plenary, is the culmination of an inquiry by Mr Maneiro following the general recommendation of Ararteko 1/2016 of 26 January 2016. The initial motion calls for the development of a comprehensive strategy, that is the initial request, but some issues have been incorporated into the text that has been transacted, although reference is made to the development of a comprehensive strategy for its submission in this House as well. This is an important issue. As I said, it has been dealt with in this Parliament on numerous occasions. And it is an important issue because it has a very direct impact on people's quality of life and dignity. And that is why we must also treat it with great rigour. This is a phenomenon which, although it has always been possible to be there, has come to light in recent years, especially as a result of the impact of the economic crisis and the effects of the economic crisis itself. I mean, it's a phenomenon that, although it might have been there, has been visible right now. As has been said here, because of energy poverty we understand the shortage of basic energy standards in households, which leads to impossibility or serious difficulties in accessing energy services for gas and electricity. It is therefore a matter that directly affects the well-being of people, the health of people, their quality of life; it is even an issue that, as we all know, has a very direct impact on the environment. And it is a question in which, of course, because they are the most affected, people or groups who are in a situation of special vulnerability must be taken into account. We believe that it must therefore be a social priority, and that it must be addressed from different areas and institutions, obviously within the competence of each institution. In the European Union we are all familiar with it, and the Ararteko recommendation makes a thorough review of the Community directives themselves; Community directives aimed at regulating the energy sector and promoting specific measures of savings and efficiency. Significant progress has also been made at the state level, such as all that has to do with the vulnerable consumer and social bonus. Article 46 of Act No. 24/2013 of 26 December 2013 on the electricity sector provides for the figure of the vulnerable consumer, which is a measure to ensure adequate protection through the right to a social bonus that is specified in a discount. We should also quote here, because I believe that they are very important policies and have a very direct impact on savings, building rehabilitation policies and the fight against energy poverty, which have been laid down in the Royal Decree-Law 7/2015 of 30 October, approving the consolidated text of the Law on Soil and Urban Rehabilitation. Many things can also be done within the framework of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and this is the subject of today's initiative: putting specific duties on the Basque Government within its own sphere of competence. We already have measures in the social sphere, or an articulated protection system that seeks to alleviate specific or non-point-specific situations. For the specific and exceptional situations there are social emergency aid, and I believe that this has a positive effect on alleviating the consequences of energy poverty. And there is also much to be done in measures to rehabilitate existing buildings, as in other specific areas, which obviously the Basque Government knows very well what their respective areas of competence are, where there is scope for action. It seemed important to us, since initiatives had already been adopted on this issue, to have a real picture of the current situation, with a diagnosis of people in poverty, and also an assessment of the measures that have already been put in place by the autonomous executive, to know where we need to go in the future. We also find it interesting, and we included it in our amendment, to take into account the recommendations set out in Ararteko's own recommendation, "Bases for the social debate on energy poverty in the Basque Country". There was also a concrete resolution and resolutions adopted in the monographic debate of 7 November 2014, and we believe that it is time to assess, evaluate and further strengthen policies to reduce the incidence of energy poverty, especially among the most vulnerable groups. We have therefore signed this compromise amendment, which places duties on the Government, and I hope that the Basque Government will respond to the mandates which, once again in this area, by the very broad agreement of this House, are entrusted to it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u79	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief Department, Congressman, good noon. As the Ararteko report says, energy poverty is a crude reality masked in many cases in broader situations of poverty and insecurity. It goes along the same lines as the last report on energy poverty in Spain, where it says that energy poverty is not an isolated phenomenon, but a face of the multidimensional and polyhedral reality of poverty. The intermediary says energy is a hard reality, hidden in many cases in a more serious state of poverty and poverty. Poverty, in general, is a social and economical phenomenon, which is characteristic of wealth and resources or lack of resources. In the United Nations, it has been defined as follows: "A man's fundamental necessity is the condition of a man who has a great want of food, water, health, health, apartment, education, and information, in order to satisfy them." Poverty is not only a want of income, but also a lack of service." Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about families who do not arrive at the end of the month, who do not have enough income to cover minimum services, and here in Euskadi we already know that, and we have structural policies to eradicate social exclusion for two decades. As was well adopted in the monograph already mentioned by the various parliamentarians, we are very much in line with that resolution 42, which said that "the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to establish a comprehensive policy to combat poverty in the family sphere, which responds to the different manifestations and sectoral consequences of poverty: young people, women, the elderly, energy poverty", because it is the line that this Government has been working on for the past two decades. That we have a way to go about this energy poverty index? Yeah. But also, if we look back, we have a long way to go. Also, because the Basque Government, for two decades, has been strong with the weak. But how do we measure this energy poverty? And that's one of the great issues that makes that matter of time – because I think we all work in the same line of moving these recommendations from Ararteko–... , it is in this measurement and in the real problems that exist to measure this index. Well, there are four large families of energy poverty indicators, and in the UK, which have been working with these indicators since the 1980s (and I think it is good that we should be clear, to know what we are facing), it is in this 1980s and since 1991 when the first definition is already accepted: that a household in energy poverty devotes more than 10% of its income to meeting its energy costs. Since then, different alternative definitions have been proposed. Some of them have focused on the proportion of energy expenditure in relation to total household income, similar to that already exposed to 10%. There is a second group that has opted for indicators based on the average or median of household energy expenditure or percentage of household energy expenditure, those known as 2M indicators. Thirdly, we find definitions based on a minimum income standard (or MIS in its English acronym), where, if the result of subtracting this MIS and housing expenditures from total household income resulted in more than their actual energy expenditures, housing would by definition be in a situation of energy poverty. And finally there is a fourth set of defined indicators, which has proposed a mixed indicator that crosses energy prices and household income; for him, only that household located in the most unfavourable quadrant, after some weightings, would fall within the category of energy poverty. And this is one of the last reports on energy poverty in Spain, and that is our big problem. So, when we analyze this document and see how Euskadi is, and the rest of the groups have also certified it, how the reality of Euskadi is quite different, even though these problems do not cease to exist. But we have in the index..., the percentage, if you have here page 47, in this percentage of households in energy poverty by autonomous communities, this indicator MIS, which is the most approximate (that in 2013 the United Kingdom has changed its indicator to measure energy poverty and has chosen an indicator that is with the acronym LIHC, which refers to low income and high energy costs), the most similar that these economists do, because here in Spain there are no such statistics to be able to do the same style as the United Kingdom, which is the MIS they call, the Basque Autonomous Community is with 4.93, is the lowest in the whole State. I know that doesn't mean we don't have families here, but it's all about these two decades of work we've been doing on this structural policy, which Ararteko says too. They have up to six indicators where the autonomous community in which it is quite well is located. In almost all of them it is the smallest. Well, why was all this? For structural measures to alleviate energy poverty within social policies. And that's what Ararteko's report says. Thanks to these structural measures to prevent energy poverty through policies for the rehabilitation of existing buildings, through structural measures to prevent energy poverty through policies for information and advice to energy consumers, and through other direct measures, such as all the support that the Socialist Party has presented. That is to say, we have had a set of aids that we have been doing for two decades, which, no matter how many people he doesn't like, is a reality that in the year 98 our social emergency aid, apart from subjugating the family... Because, what are we talking about? We're talking about a family that doesn't arrive at the end of the month. It will be for the studies, it will be for the supplementary housing benefit, it will be because it has little salary, it will be... So, in that definition of that edge, measuring energy poverty, there we have the big problem that Europe has right now to define an indicator. Well, that problem that this same report says. What's going on? That in Spain we have defined, we have moved that directive in 2013, with the Electricity Act, which we have said who the vulnerable consumer is. But what happened? That we haven't developed it. With this in Spain – and they say it perfectly in this report, and you have it here on page 7 – this is the main problem. It says: "In this sense, the measures that can be designed to combat energy poverty should have as a fundamental reference the vulnerable households" – and in that we agree all parties – "that is, those most likely to incur energy poverty situations. To this end, it is necessary to identify those characteristics of households that make them more likely to be in poverty, an exercise that has not yet been carried out in Spain". We have not developed the regulations to establish that vulnerable client, something that the Socialist Party presented in Congress in 2014 and all the parties that are here, except the People's Party, voted for that law. What happens is that the People's Party had an absolute majority and brushed it. We need that development. You at point 3 say we do it ourselves. Well, that's fine with me. And even the People's Party also tells us, "Do it yourselves." Well, we'll do it! In this time of two months it is impossible, but in order to be able to do so with criterion, as Ararteko also says in his report, the State has resorted to the one that has tried to do so, which is Catalonia. But not only has he appealed it, but already on March 16 the Constitutional Court ruling has come out and says to him: "Listen to you, if you want to legislate what the vulnerable consumer is, you are entering into basic regulations. This is about the electricity sector, that's my business." And that sentence they have. On March 16, two months after Ararteko already said that that was foreseeable, we would do it here. Then we do it here enchanted; let us be told by the People's Party, which says, "Hey, look, since 2009 I have been unable in Spain to develop this, develop it you"... Well, I'm glad we can do it. But that is a duty that the Spanish State must do. That the rest of the parties say yes, then, because we are now in goodness and we have to do everything? We do. But what's the problem here? The problem here, with the agreement you make today, is the times, and we have commented on that. They know there's a problem with identifying the basic indicator. You guys are already, well, well... And then, of course, as they put "in this session"... But this session is May and June, two months. In two months we have to do what Spain has not done since 2009, or the hold-up that the United Kingdom has been carrying, which has been using an index from 2001 to 2013 and has now changed it, that is, with a history of twenty years of work... And now we here in two months are going to be able to do it. It will be fine, because it will be able to establish the indicator of energy poverty, which is the best for Spain and for Euskadi. Great. Why? Because the Spanish state has done nothing. Well, but in this climate of goodness we, with that responsibility that characterizes us, have to say, and that is impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u81	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Passing on the answers, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u82	Thank you, President. Mr Carro, the Basque Nationalist Party is capable of that and much more. We have no doubt that, if there is political will, this Government is capable of resolving all these problems, and that time is no problem if there is indeed political will. The PNV will be able to prove it, we have no doubt. By the way, I did not know whether you were actually speaking on behalf of the Basque Nationalist parliamentary group or whether you were speaking on behalf of the Government. In any case, we think there are many things to be done, and they must be done. And you talk about time. Well, they've ruled Euskadi for the past thirty years and haven't made any progress on different issues. Therefore, it is a matter of reminding them of what remains to be done, beyond the fact that some things have been done. Is there energy poverty in Euskadi? Yeah. As of today, no one can deny it. The Basque Government had until recently denied it. Now you can no longer deny it, although, yes, it does undervalue, still undervalue this matter. It also refuses to commit itself to certain specific measures that are outlined in that compromise amendment. And it reminds us, as always, by throwing balloons out, that other Spanish autonomous communities, or the rest of the autonomous communities, are worse. True, the rest of the autonomous communities are worse. But today in Euskadi there are 200,000 Basques who suffer from energy poverty, and that, in our opinion, is barbaric. And we therefore urge this Government to resolve this issue. The PP government could be told these things and many more, but we are in the Basque Parliament. Therefore, do not use the wild that you always use, that of which the rest of the autonomous communities are worse. Yes, we know that they are worse on this issue too, but I say that there are 200,000 Basques who suffer from energy poverty. Has this Government taken steps to address this serious problem? Poor, scarce, and always dewashed, not integrated into a comprehensive strategy. Patches. Moreover, and this is certainly sad, this government has had to be dragged by the various parliamentary groups in this House to take action on this issue. It had to be dragged, because, if not, it alone was not able to take a single measure. Therefore, either through amendments to the budgets, or through certain non-legislative proposals adopted in this Parliament, this government has had to be dragged by the different groups, because on its own initiative it was not able to take a single measure. And in addition, many of those initiatives adopted in this Parliament have been breached by this government. For example, proposal No. 42, which is included in those motions for resolutions adopted during the case-by-case debate on the issue, has been recalled here and is also included in that compromise amendment. The number 42 has not been fulfilled by this Basque Government. Therefore, you already have a job to do. In addition, the adviser himself said: "The 2015 budget had a budget of 200,000 euros. Okay, that's not enough," says the advisor himself. The counselor himself says, "Okay, insufficient." It was an insufficient departure. And why didn't they include a bigger game than those 200,000? That, by the way, they were able not to include a single item or a single euro. It had to be another group that said "200,000 euros at least that you have to include so that budgets can be approved." The following year 400,000, also insufficient. He said so and the advisor himself said: "Following the parliamentary mandate, the Department of Employment and Social Policy contacted the main energy companies." That is to say, dragged back by the parliamentary groups in this House, because the Basque Government has very good ideas, but it does not seem to be able to apply a single one. It has to be dragged by the different groups. Another example is that this Government has no initiative. So can this government do more? Obviously. Ararteko himself says this in his recommendation, when he points out that the data presented in the social needs survey do not leave room for doubts: despite the social aid regime, there are still people and families who are subject to the phenomenon of energy poverty in winter. Or when he says that, "despite this, to date Basque public administrations have not been able to develop a specific global strategy to address energy poverty." And the Councilman himself also acknowledged this during the debate on the question, when he expressly pointed out that we still have a way to go. Indeed, much remains to be done, and some of those things that remain to be done are pointed out in that compromise amendment. Therefore, the problem is not a matter of time, it is not a question of how we measure energy poverty. The fundamental problem is to carry out a diagnosis, to take structural measures to deal with this problem.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u83	Thank you, Mr. Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u84	That is, political commitment, political will. All the problems can be solved with political will, and that is what this Government has lacked. And finally, with the permission of the President, this government, Mr Lehendakari, demand a new status, demand new powers. We ask this Government to use the powers it already has, of which it already has, to deal with the real problems of Basque citizens. And the problem of energy poverty is a real problem that affects thousands of citizens and thousands of families. Stop asking for new skills, and those who already have, in the end, use them well.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u85	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u86	Thank you very much. That's very kind of you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u87	Lady Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u88	Yes, thank you again. Briefly, as far as indicators are concerned, Mr Carro, the Ararteko resolution is based on the indicators contained in the poverty survey, which you seem to think is good, because it is good for that resolution, but here you are talking about another report from the Spanish State with other indicators, which seems to be good for it too. What is not good is the EVE report, which we have requested in this House on more than one occasion and which you have voted against. He has told us about that structural policy that has been going on for 20 years, and that because of that here, in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, we are fine, or we are not as bad as in the Spanish state. What's the use of that reflection, Mr. Caro? Of what? What good is it to us? How does that help people who are in that situation today and who cannot pay the gas or light bill? Is it any use? No! No! Let's focus on the problem we have here, and let's see if we can fix it. And the solution, of course, is not to follow the same policy that has been carried out for twenty years, because if that policy goes in this direction and vulnerable customers go in this direction, which is what the Ararteko tells us, then the gap is going to be growing. So we must change our strategy, we must measure well who these people are, and we must look very well for solutions, which are what we are asking for or what the ladies and gentlemen who have signed the compromise amendment are asking for. And all you propose is to put everything in the same bag, which is what your amendment says to the whole: that within this comprehensive policy of combating poverty, then, the recommendation of the Ararteko, which says a few things, should also be developed. What we're seeing here is that the policies are the same, there's no more commitment, there's no new measures, there's no more budget... so, if we're putting everything inside that same bag, one day the bag, Mr. Carro, is going to explode. I do not know why you consider what is presented in this compromise amendment to be intractable. For the time? Because there's two months to go? Well, this is not the first proposal on energy poverty in this House! The whole legislature has been talking about energy poverty. Looks like now's when they realize there's two months left and there's no time. Well, we don't think so. We believe it is more a matter of will. And in addition, by the same rule of three, we would certainly not be making amendments to the laws, or we would not be dealing with the laws in submission, or we would not be getting laws to this Parliament yet, because there will be no time anyway, there will be no time in two months to finish all that work. Is the activity stopping? No! No! But if you had the will, if the PNV had the will, you could have quietly signed that compromise amendment, or supported it. Nor do we believe that this is a matter of compromise, because on many occasions you have signed compromise amendments or supported compromise amendments, with all your goodwill certainly, knowing that the Government was not going to comply with them. Therefore, it does not seem to us another excuse to take into account. Without further ado, I reiterate the support for the firm.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u90	Look, Mr. Car, chance number 23. You do not believe in the problem of energy poverty. They just don't believe it! It's just that it doesn't matter what debates we have, it doesn't matter who we sign or who we don't sign. It's just that you guys want to get over the subject. So don't give me the twenty-year-old story. Do we have to explain to him again that there are people who have a job and can't pay the bill and that they can't benefit from ESAs, or do these people not exist? Do we have to tell you again that the GIR, which exists in Euskadi and does not exist in other autonomous communities, also determines who are the consumers who need help in order to reach the end of the month? I just don't know which part they don't understand or want to understand! At the heart of the matter came to you until the Socialist Group put the amendment to the budget to you, because this removed a problem: as long as it is managed by the Red Cross, we do nothing. And, inciting a thing that Mrs. Blanco said, man, two years ago you signed a non-law proposal with us that was beginning to talk about the issue of poverty, which was going to be included in the budget, that a convention had to be signed... I mean, are you telling me that the PNV government hasn't done anything? I mean, nothing? They approved that, they gave the money to the Red Cross, and to watch them come! Man, I thought a responsible government, that of the citizens, which Mr Urkullu is talking about all day, was going to try to work on solving the issue of energy poverty, because I understand that you share with me that 400,000 euros give for what they give, right? Let's see if it's going to be settled with 400,000 euros now! Look, Mr. Car, the problem is that when someone doesn't believe in something, it's too obvious to you, and you don't believe in it. And they want to tell us that the AES and the RGI solve everything. And they want to tell us that it turns out that if Spain doesn't develop the indicator of who are the vulnerable customers, then you can't say anything. So, you, when you talk about self-government, what are you talking about? I don't know, I'd like to know what you mean by self-government. For socialists self-government is the tool that improves the lives of Basque citizens; for you self-government is the tool they use to make nationalist policies, by nationalists and for nationalists. And do you know what's going on? That there are people, within energy poverty, from the PNV, and there are people from the PP, PSOE, UPyD and EH Bildu. And self-government is a tool of all, and you understand it, therefore, as everything: what is of the Basque Country, is to the liking and likeness of the PNV. Look, energy poverty is a real situation. You've taken care of denying it. When they have no choice but to recognize it, because Caritas, the Red Cross, the United Nations, environmental organizations that study energy issues..., when everyone doesn't know what else to write on this subject, you recognize that it does exist, but, well, that the Basques have already solved the problem for twenty years. But what a problem, if they denied it! If up until two years ago you denied that this was real! And when once again the opposition brings to you a full monograph that deals with the issue of poverty and includes a resolution that speaks of energy poverty, once again, to fail to comply with it, because, as it is not born of the PNV... As energy poverty is solved by ESAs... For I would invite you to have a meeting with the organization that manages the energy poverty budget, to explain to them what profiles reach the window of the Red Cross. They are not the ones who come to the city hall to talk about the ESAs and the RGI; that there are families who charge a thousand euros and cannot pay four hundred euros in invoice. I'm glad you don't have those families around you. It's that these families are Basque, and they exist, and they deserve dignity. And you pass by and make up, so, cheap excuses, to end up talking about that guilt, as always, is of another. And self-government is a tool of all, and it should be used to solve or at least improve the lives of citizens. Self-government was not born to make us independent or sovereign. It was born so that the Basques, within our competence, with the systems that we have developed, that I also recognize that on the issue of social policy is better than that of other autonomous communities, we take advantage of it for the citizen, not for the seats. And then, Mr Carro, two years wasting time; two years delaying the departure that the socialists give them to say, "Please try to fix this"; two years we said, "Put on the tools and get to work, because this is short-term. Bring us, before the end of the legislature, a negotiation to see what we can do and solve this problem." And now he tells us that there are two months left, at best, because we do not know what Mr Urkullu is going to do, hey, and that he does not give them time, and that, since he does not give them time, we vote against it. Man, do you think this is serious? The citizens' party? What citizens? Batzoki's, or all of them? This is a haircut. You don't believe in this. And what's worse, you think the social policy system has done it. Listen, no, it's everyone's, we've all got this, it's part of Basque politics. And we have done this not only by the nationalists but also by the socialists. And the popular, and today EH Bildu, and in his day Batasuna. That we're all part of the same country! And those who cannot pay the bill are also entitled to be defended, from the seat and from the policy of self-government. You deny the existence of energy poverty, because you don't know how to fix it. And if there isn't 400,000 euros there would be a lot more people without light and water. And you're responsible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u91	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Well, new escapism exercise from the Basque Nationalist Party, from the government. When you have the possibility to use your instruments, then you make excuses. In this case, the pilgrim excuse has been that we are at the end of the legislature, well, there are two months left. We do not know, because neither has the lehendakari clarified today the date of the elections, because one day he tells us that much remains to be done, but another day he tells us that nothing would happen if the elections were advanced. I believe that the Government..., and in this respect the initiative and agreement we have reached, is very clear: it is again placed, in an important matter, which has been dealt with on other occasions in this Parliament, duties to this Government. I believe that at this point we already know what is the area of competence of each one, or this government should know what is the area of competence in this area as well. And I do not think there is any need to say that we do not need to encourage this government, when it is right for it to get out of hand in this area of competition. Because, look, this group has also defended, for example, a housing law, it has repeatedly called for a housing law in this Parliament, but, man, not just any law. And when the Housing Act came and passed, it was considered appropriate to challenge those points which constituted a breach or an excess in the competition field of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. By the way, you are constantly talking about re-centralisation, harassment of Basque autonomy, Basque self-government... but then there are certain resources, such as that of the Housing Act or the Fracking Act, which are very good for this government, because it did everything possible not to come out of an initiative that in that case it did not like, which came from the opposition. Therefore, here I believe that, after a few years of the Basque Nationalist Party's legislature, we all know each other, and we know each other very well. And in the end one, to cover up his own shortcomings, again does the victimism exercise to which we are accustomed by the Basque Nationalist Party. Look, you in this particular area have a lot you can do, as in many other things. Then we will discuss local and regional employment plans, which is also their area of competence, with Lanbide, who is as he is, to whom I will then refer, and who is as he is, indeed. So stop victimizing, stop complacency, stop blaming others, and focus on what you have to focus on. Because then, of course, we are going to the figures of the commitments made with this Government as well, in terms of passed laws, and, of the twenty-nine bills that the Government said it was going to refer to this Parliament, with which it was adopted this morning, eight. I therefore believe that the balance sheet leaves much to be desired, and the figures put on the table, the real figures, speak for themselves and leave this government in evidence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u93	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Finally, the Eucariats represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. You see, we don't know what election day is, but that you are already in the campaign has made it perfectly clear. Mr. Maneiro, political will, everything. He talks about real problems and new skills. We would already like to have the competence of the electricity sector in order to be able to solve this issue, both that of electricity tariffs and that of the vulnerable consumer! Tell the People's Party to move it to us, and you will see how we, both for our industry in the steel sector and for this case, of the whole issue of energy poverty, will see if we really know how to develop it, and we do not expect since 2009 or 2013 that the vulnerable consumer has appeared, to develop it. This is a serious enough issue, with the whole issue of energy poverty, to say that there is no... Of course it exists! He's always existed! What we are saying is that they are families that do not arrive at the end of the month, that have a lot of minimums that they have to fulfill and services that they have to give them, and energy poverty is one more, however much you think you have put it in the candlestick. No! No! That is to say, it is a reality that is there, but that must be developed within the entire integrated system – and that is what the Ararteko also says – all those structural policies, whether of housing, efficiency, change of appliances, social emergency aid, which seems to be like a totum revolutionum... And this is not something of the Basque Nationalist Party. This is a history of all the parties in this House and those who were not in this House, who have believed in a model, and we have been with this model for two decades. And that's a reality. Why do you say that? We already know that we still have a lot to do, but the reality is that when we look back – and it's good to know where we are – 40% of all the support there is with the issue of social exclusion in the Spanish State is being given by this community, when it does not reach 5% of its inhabitants. And the next community turns out it doesn't even reach half, and it has three times as many. And that's the picture, and that's the reality. That we have problems, too? Sure! Of course we're in trouble! And of course this is not the same: from year to year this protection has been increased, and there are currently more than 461 million in social exclusion issues. I think we're quite campaigning on this issue, and I think it's a serious enough issue for me to, when I tell you that in two months it's impossible... We could abstain, or vote in favour, but it is not a reality. It's not a reality. When we are seeing, in countries that have been using these indicators for more than 20 years, the real problem of clearly defining an energy poverty indicator... There are six in that report. Let us focus, let us work together all parties to find the best index that defines these families who suffer from this concrete energy poverty. Sure! All political will, but what we cannot pretend is to deceive people and tell them that here in two months they will have everything, the regulations that the State does not approve, that you say that we approve it, when on 16 March, by judgment of the Constitutional Court, you have told Catalonia that you do not even talk about regulating that, that it is a regulation of the State. Well, it's nice to see you moving it! Besides, it's a real problem. With the electricity sector, we have real problems, real problems, in this country. Give us that transfer, and you'll see how we do everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u95	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. End of discussion, we'll vote forUPyD, plus the Basque Popular Groups, plus the middle-class correction that the Basque Socialists have signed. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 47; the opposites, 27; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u96	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. When we get to this point, I'll break up until 15:15 p.m. It's three points this afternoon. The last point is left for another, the eighth, but there are still three points for the afternoon. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty. The meeting began again at about three-fifteen in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u97	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "The other proposal, as the P.P.I.E.A.P.P.P.P.A., to promote employment during the act of 2016. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garrido, it's yours to run the word and take it away.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u98	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. This subject is not new, but every year the Popular Party presents the same proposition after having seen the passipitude of this government in this Chamber. We must say that in other years we have obtained extensive agreements on this subject, almost all of them, except the Jestric Party, the party that supports the government. History repeats itself: a new initiative of the People's Party in relation to aid for local actions to promote employment. Every year this group presents the same initiative, placing duties on the Government to approve it, giving speed to the approval of the respective calls for local and regional employment plans, or, where appropriate, to resolve such calls expeditiously once they have been approved. Berriro, orduan, esan dezakegu, eskaera berbera. In this case we propose that Lanbide immediately approve the call for aid from the local and regional employment plans for 2016. We all know that jobs and economic crisis are the main problems of the community, and that's why the administration has to deal with this problem. In our Autonomy Er member, the right of jobs policy goes to Red-Mingerk, according to the State of Guernica. It is the end of the profession, it must be, because it seems at last not to succeed, in obtaining a stable employment of quality. For this purpose, Profession must design initiatives to create employment by means of local institutions. Then we can say it's the best place zone to develop the produce network. That's why the job cops should get that model. The profession, by calling, provides several helps to set up a project to create employment. The local plan collects special actions for people who have problems at work, according to the World Games Plan. But once again we note the lack of diligence of this Government in relation to local and regional employment plans. In 2014 we had a debate on this issue, brought to this House by the People's Party. We brought to the Basque Parliament the delay in convening the resolution published on 17 October 2013. The municipalities had one month to prepare their projects, and the call was resolved with considerable delay, on 23 April 2014, which led to an extension of the deadline for the implementation of the projects initially scheduled for a date. We must remember – as we also showed last year, that we also brought this debate back to this House – that 2014 you missed it. In 2014, in local and regional employment plans, it can be clearly said that it was a blank year. This lack of diligence, in which you take out calls late, resolve calls late, skip a year, leads to local and regional employment plans overlap. And that was a matter of the utmost priority for this Government. Last year, in the debate that we also had in this House, berriro ere, debate horretan Eusko Jaurlaritzari betebeharrak jarri genizkion. And we urge the Basque Government to resolve the latest resolution of 25 March 2015 as soon as possible, and we also urge the Basque Government to publish the calls in due time, so that, as far as possible, the execution can be carried out in the same exercise. I know that Mrs Arregi is going to tell me that this presents a difficulty and that it is practically impossible, because of the pre-receptive reports, but I also want to remind you here that there is a regulation, a consolidated state text in relation to employment legislation, which clearly speaks about the annuality of employment plans. Therefore, all administrations have to make an effort to ensure that these plans are annual. The delay in calling these plans, in their resolution, clearly damages the municipalities, because often the plans of the municipalities in relation to concrete actions are not limited to a year, but are also pending the call of the following year, and, therefore, if there is a clear interruption, in a period of time, because, obviously, there are people who stop hiring, there are people who do not know if they are going to be able to rehir... Therefore, this action, this attitude of the Basque Government, with an absolutely obvious lack of diligence, is having a clear impact on the municipalities. But the most serious thing is that the government – because this debate, as I say, we bring it back to this Parliament year after year – recidivises its mistakes, it still does not learn from the mistakes, it again falls into the same mistakes, and that is why we bring the debate back to this House in 2016, where we urge Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service to immediately approve the call for regional employment plans for the 2016 financial year, which is not approved. I am saying that last year's call was approved in March 2015; this year we are somewhat behind schedule. For when, Mr. Counsellor, for when, Mr. lehendakari, is the call for this year's local and regional employment plans? And, likewise, we call for an effort to make the publication of the call for these plans as soon as possible, so that they do not overlap and, to the extent possible, can coincide with the calendar year. In short, we once again urge this Parliament, in an initiative for the third time, that I remember, to fulfil its commitments. And that this was the people's government, and that the main problem of Basque citizens, as is clearly seen in the last Euskobarometer, is employment and the economic crisis. It must be said clearly, and we refer to the facts, that combating the economic crisis, alleviating the effects of the economic crisis and reducing the unemployment rates of many Basque citizens is not among the priorities of this Government. Because, if not, it is not understood that year after year this government falls into the same mistakes. A plan that carries an implicit 20 million euros, that is, it is not calderilla. And, therefore, I believe that the government here, from the beginning of the legislature – because, I say, it is already three consecutive years in which this group presents this initiative – should have made a much greater effort. Their delay, their inaction, their passivity, are clearly leading to damage to the municipalities, which do not know what to stick to, which do not know what resources they will rely on to develop those plans that they draw up in compliance with the premises of the aforementioned calls, and an injury, in short, to the Basque citizens. That is why we say again – and taking advantage of the fact that the lehendakari is here today – loud and clear, that it is enough to escape, it is enough to complacency, that in matters in which you have your own competences you are not exercising them. And what worries us the most... And we already know that Lanbide doesn't work well, we know that all the policies that have to do with Lanbide have a considerable delay, that Lanbide is being mismanaged, that Lanbide is not meeting its goals in terms of the employability of people, that people who enter the system are given few opportunities, because the system is not working... The system is not working, Mr Lehendakari and Mr Councillor, but what worries us most, and I bring back the statements of Mr Lehendakari, is the resignation of a government unable to deal with the main problems that Basque citizens have. That's right, then he talks about recentralisation, then he talks about victimism, but in the meantime, without putting in place the locomotive of our own tools in the Basque Country, such as Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service. The vice-advisor has said one thing that I think is vox populi. The councilman himself, at the beginning of his career as a political leader in the Basque Government, has already told us that the companies passed from Lanbide. In other words, the vice-advisor has not told us anything that most Basque citizens do not know today. Here are the data: Lanbide's brokerage rate, 3.1/12 % according to official data; the amount of undue charges, 128 million euros, from which 13.6 million euros have been recovered; how Lanbide is unable to follow a formative itinerary for those people who enter the system to get out... Because that's Lanbide's target, ladies and gentlemen! That is the objective of a tool that the Basques have, and it should have been put on the part of this Government, without any doubt, in the service of that task, and they have not done so. And we are concerned that these statements have been made since the resignation of a government that throws the towel away, of a government that does not put solutions in the management of a key agency to fight the economic crisis, to alleviate the effects of the economic crisis and to alleviate still the unemployment figures that we have in our community, which often decrease at a lower rate than the other autonomous communities do. Then Mr Lehendakari comes and gets involved with the central government all the time. Well, it's not as bad as the measures of the central government are! Because the tools you have in your hand already see what you give of yourself, nothing. And on top of that, we have members of the government, as was the councilman himself at the time, when he said that the companies were moving from Lanbide, or when the deputy councilman has now said that his children would not think of going to Lanbide. That is a reality that you yourselves recognize. What are you going to do, Mr. Lehendakari? What are you going to do? Don't laugh, I don't think it's a laughing matter. I think it is not a matter of laughing, seeing the enormous amount of economic resources Lanbide has to develop employment policies. That is why we believe they will have to take some responsibility for this disastrous management, and the evidence of the data and the evidence of reality. The question is what we do with Lanbide, that we, beyond asking for the resignation of a person, who may be fine, do not know whether or not it corresponds... We will see how the lehendakari assumes this responsibility of having an agency with a huge amount of public money that does not carry out its tasks, that is unable to manage social aid, that has a brokerage rate in which this government is unable to meet the objectives set by Mr Aborto to reach 5%, that then the councilman tells us that the companies pass from Lanbide, that then the vice councilman tells us that it is that to his children how they will think about going to Lanbide... We are concerned about the responsibility it assumes, but this lehendakari, as president of all the Basques and as head of this government. And today the initiative we are bringing to this Parliament is one more example. It is another example of local and regional employment plans, which for the third consecutive year we have to tell the Government to make and fulfil the commitments made, because again, because of this inaction, because of this passivity, because of this apathy, because of this lack of leadership and ambition, we are harming the Basques. Therefore, gentlemen of the Government, Mr. Counsellor, Mr. lehendakari, how long does that passivity in priority policies? Don't come to us talking about government for people! But where are the people for this government? Where are the people for this government, if for three consecutive times we have to tell this government to put in place local and regional employment plans, to resolve calls for local and regional employment plans, not to skip calls for local and regional employment plans, as happened in 2014? How long, gentlemen? How long, Mr. Lehendakari? How long, Counselor? I hope that, in view of the amendments as well, there will be no problem in supporting the initiative of the People's Party. Obviously, there is also agreement on some points in the amendment tabled by EH Bildu, and again in this House we will see the loneliness of this Executive, which is clear that priority..., that one thing is the words, another is the facts, and that the priority is not the people and the main concern of the Basque citizens, which is employment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u99	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u100	Yes, good evening to you all. As the spokesman of the party has remarked, the appeal to local employment is not published yet. Even this year, he's too late for this profession. We shall talk of the rest of the business, and therefore I shall now focus on it. We've been discussing this delay in the past three years. These scholarships are the only subsidies that are directed directly to the development of the place. Therefore, if this subject has any importance, it ought to be. These calls took place in the 2012 Calls. In this respect each region was directed to plan a region. The needs and potentiality of each district ought to have been developed according to the plan of the district, and, on the basis of which, to start with local measures. And so some of the districts did, or attempted to do, when they planned together with the inhabitants of these regions, but it is well known that this has not happened in all places. So here's the first mistake: many plans were cut short, and still have short legs. To give you an example, Enchartor. But apart from this, we have been sufficiently critical at the EH Collection, either with the criteria or conditions which tend to the exchange during these proceedings, especially for the two principal reasons: the first, because employment, which is produced by these contracts, is the premeditation of employment, and a contract of very little time, is the contract of duration three and six months. But not only for that, but also in the way of managing calls. It has often been a waste, and indeed it is not effective to answer the wants of the region in an strategic form. We've been through terrible disasters in the management of these scholarships.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u101	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u102	For instance, from the countries where the contractors have been drawn by the people to the councils, such as have been carefully handed over to the workmen. And this has happened with public funds, specifically, in the management of these subsidies. We've met with cases where wages have been laughed at. And the workers have developed an activity that is dangerous without any preventive forms. They're just a few criteria, which should be improved, to prevent subsiding the prevention of the preventive. But as we make proposals to improve things, not only to criticise EH, but to improve the call that is to be issued, I shall make a few proposals. For example, as regards the profile of the beneficiaries that marks the resolution, it must be said that compliance with all the percentages, at times, therefore, involves both the development agencies and the municipalities when it comes to processing or managing or directing these contracts or aid. Maybe a person has... That is, for example, to put an example, that in the training required of a person, just the person performing those functions does not fit within any of the collectives that are required, and it may also be that, despite attempts to recruit the person who, in terms of income or in terms of the needs most needed, may not be able to be met either. Let me give you an example. Taking into account, for example, that 30% of collectors have to be from the GIR, this does not mean that because they are a recipient of the GIR, there are no other people with less income, but it can be given that because they cannot meet the requirement of the three years of registration, for example, they cannot access it. Just to set an example. So, it's true that as far as baring is concerned, it's positive that some groups (that a percentage have to be women, that a percentage...) are prioritized, but it's true that this later, then, makes a lot of stride. For example, as regards the duration of the calls. The deadlines for implementation are very tight, in all respects, and it should also be borne in mind that calls do not always come out on the same date. As Laura Garrido has said, last year they were published on March 31, and this year's has not yet been published, making it impossible for local development agencies and municipalities to plan for the long term. On the other hand, it is also incoherent, because it is supposed that this aid is already intended to develop the actions that fall within the framework of the strategic regional plans. And in order to give another example, they have a program to encourage the first sector in the Busan, naturally plutorian, but it does not follow the lines: in six months they are employed to wait and wait for the proclamation to be published, and what conditions will be. This causes a great instability to public and councils. Because, on the one hand, they don't know whether they'll ever be funded or not, and on the other hand, the technicians who hire them can't be hired again. This leads to the continuation of the project with new persons every time the decree is published, and, of course, delay. Thus, in order to develop needs in an strategic manner, they must be followed, and have to create a state of security. It should be four years' calls. What, for instance, about the extension of contracts? We see very well that a minimum duration should be established, but why should it be at the most, for instance, six months? I am sure that these contractations ought to have been for a long time for many projects. For example, the previous example. And the same is true of the conditions of contraction. Above all, it is in the oppositions made by corporations that have very poor conditions. A lot of companies don't work out the sector's work agreement or don't apply any work agreement. And that's how we've known them. And in order to avoid such situations, and to ensure that the actually creating employment will be worthy of dignity, we think it necessary to fulfill, at least, the contract of the labouring sector of activity, unless the contractor, or the contractor of the State, has not a compact that improves this contract, for instance, those who are hired or managed by the townships, will certainly apply them to them, but especially in the company, sometimes have no conviction at all. The local development agency must be the refractory paper in the course of these financial aids. And really the ancients fill it up so far as they can, but they themselves make it very unstable not to know when they're going to get out of it. And in point of fact, not only does these commercial aids which are transmitted to local developments, but also to subsidize certain expenditures of management which they also produce, e.g. some of them provide for the workers for prevention, and this also produces other expenditures, either from techniques or material matters. So that's how we make it up to you. Here are some proposals which would improve the call, and which would naturally lead to the facility of obtaining the ends of the country's plans. And well, taking advantage of the fact that Mr Bildu is here and that this resolution has not yet come out, we directly request that at least some of these proposals be incorporated, which are not only proposals by EH Bildu, but are also proposals that make many of the development agencies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Deputy of the Eugal Abby Group. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u104	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, members of the legislature, all the afternoons. Even this year, as the other speakers have said, we propose to discuss the matter as well as our 2016-year-old friendships in order to promote employment. And I will here speak of this in my first turn, which is the foundation of the enterprise to-day, though the proposer devotes more than half his time to other matters. We'll focus on this. This is the first time you've had to re-enact economic activity, because you have to re-establish economic activity in order to create a job. For this purpose the government has performed certain assistance and actions, in order to seek stability, in order to improve the conditions, in order to produce employment at the most refined. And there's the results. Even if it's slower than we'd like, the rate of unemployment is below us, we've been able to create a negotiary job. I'm telling you, it's a promise that you're engaged to me. He's set up the conditions for working and the results are there. We have often said that we must be able to create a social employment, as Mrs. Zulaika used to say. We must pass the first step, the production of employment, the second; We've got to do everything we can to make a decent job, and that's what's going on. In fact, we don't quite understand the reason I brought this initiative here every year, apart from the fact that I'm being reviewed, there's the help for local jobs and they're getting their goal. We know that part of the opposition's work is to criticize the government, and that you know how to do very well. But the same is true of the lack of initiative and the passivity, as Mrs Garrido said, of the Executive's poor unemployment data, they must also recognise their work and the positive effects of their work when unemployment and economic recovery data improve. As you well know, since the beginning of the legislature, the Government has marked employment and economic recovery as the first axis of its work. In order to generate the best conditions that facilitate economic recovery and employment generation, different plans have been approved with concrete and evaluable measures. Within them we have local support for the promotion of employment, to meet the local employment needs of each territorial area, and especially in those municipalities or regions where unemployment rates are highest. This is somewhat in line with the first point of the amendment to add Euskal Herria Bildu. The aim is to strengthen the local dimension of employment policy in Euskadi, by defining a flexible intervention model, adjusted to the local social and economic reality, bearing in mind that in Euskadi there are areas where unemployment is greatest, so the distribution of the budget between the different regions and municipalities has been carried out according to the unemployment rate of each of them at the time of the call. The purpose of promotement is to contribute money to the establishments of Euscal Autonomy Erlaboria so that they can make and prepare jobs projects. These projects must enable the social and modernization of areas of influence, and must be consistent with the aim of the 2013-2016 program having placed it in the field of employment. We intended to protect the first point of the basic initiative, because we consider the subsidies of employment as necessary, which are perfectly important and effective. I'm sure you can't afford to bet on all this stuff, and every year, that's how these scholarships come from. As for the second point, as I said last year's discussion, it's technically and morally impossible to fill, even if you ask for it and ask for it. Asking for something that's impossible, even though it's asked a thousand times, it can't be executed. It is impossible to carry out the call, resolution and development in the same exercise, by the very functioning of the Administration, Mrs Garrido. First, the budget must be approved, which, as you are well aware, is at the end of December; it must be approved with the corresponding reports of the Office of Economic Control and approval in the Governing Council, for which it is necessary at least two months; then approval is required at the Lanbide Board of Directors, one more month for the submission of projects, a period of up to six months for the resolution by Lanbide, depending on the entity of the projects; contracts for unemployed persons with varying durations, as Mrs Zulaika also said, between three and six months, being the duration of the majority of six months; the actions carried out under the aid must be justified by the contractors within three months of the completion of the contracts; payment is made between one and two months from the previous deadline. The whole process lasts eighteen months. Therefore, what the People's Party asks for at its second point is a toast to the sun, impossible to fulfill materially and legally, as we told it last year. It's like we're asking the government to match a one-year school year. Impossible, right? Well, in this case, the same thing happens. Therefore, we will not support this request, I insist, of impossible compliance. We associate with the first point of further correction, as I have already said and explained, and thus the profession is already performing. The second point is not to be defended by a trumpet, if so be it, because it is against the law. And you know that in such cases you will not have us escorted: the laws, more or less pleasing, ought either to be obeyed, or to work in order to alter this law. But it seems to us beyond legal rigour to call for the application of the same convention in-de-pen-dien-te-te-te-te-de-continue in force. Horretan, they're bezala, ez gaituzue bidelagun izango. And, finally, what must be made clear – also a bit related to that second point of Bildu's amendment of addition – is that, in order for Lanbide to pay the corresponding amounts, the wage paid to workers must always (always) be justified, which has been so, that it must be above the interprofessional minimum wage. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Crossing the line of uncorrected teams, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u106	Only to say that I will vote in favour of Mrs Garrido's original proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u107	Thank you. Basque Socialists represent the group. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u108	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, at this point our group has not tabled an amendment because the initiative that the Group of the European People's Party is bringing today deals with a question which is repeated, which is redundant, because it has been raised, as has already been said, on other occasions, and therefore we are faced with more of the same, or it is raining on wet. We will therefore support the proposed initiative, and we will also support the first point of the addendum amendment. Mrs Arregi told us a moment ago that the government has focused primarily on economic recovery. Well, I think so. But I would like to remind you that it was the same adviser who did not say so long ago that, unfortunately, economic growth was not accompanied by job creation. The Councilman himself said so, and therefore the Government's desire to reactivate the economy, which is of his own, very well, very commendable, but has been credited by the Government itself that this is not enough for job creation. Employment policies themselves may not create employment either, but they are compulsory actions and actions in any case. And we have been saying, in all the debates that have taken place on this particular issue, that we understand that employment policies – and we have said it on some other occasion in a very ritual way – are an unwanted child. The Government, active employment policies already since the transfer, has understood them somewhat unevenly. In fact, it had an initiative in its legislative calendar that was the employment law, which also marked it with an asterisk as an important action within the legislative calendar; action that, as we know, fell. The government was asked about this issue and, well, it suggested that they wanted to do one more thing... in short, powerful, but the case is that there is no employment law. There is a law of employment, yes, a law of basic employment, of the State, which is Law 56/2003, which has known different versions. The last is the consolidated text of the Employment Act, Royal Legislative Decree 3/2015, article 5 of which states: "Employment policy instruments: (a) Employment mediation; (b) Active employment policies; (c) Coordination between active policies and protection against unemployment". What we see is that the Government pays a lot of attention to passive policies, and we also see that, in the end, because of the management difficulties, so far neither successfully, because we already know that the famous issue of undue payments and so on is also in this of passive policies. In the area of active employment policies today we bring one of them, local and regional plans, because for employment strategies, indeed, the issue of the local dimension is very important. And by fully endorsing what has been said by Mrs Garrido and Mrs Zulaika, these plans do not comply with another of the tasks set out in this consolidated text, Article 11, which refers to annual employment policy plans. That is to say, there is a principle of annuality of these policies, but the Government manages to finish them between different budgetary years, go to you to know with what intention, so that an extension of the times and deadlines is taking place, with the consequences already described by the previous speakers. We could do a sectoral review of each of the active employment policies and see, in fact, where they lie, but, well, it will be said that this is not the subject of the debate, and therefore I omit every comment. But it would be good to make such a review, because on the subject of guidance the calls have also been delayed, with the service to the employment centres it happens the same as with the guidance, with the occupational training there has been a reduction of 15%, from between nine and twelve euros per student now to six and eight... What Mrs Zulaika has said with the development agencies is that the development agencies are only municipally negotiated to pool them, and in the last calls for employment plans they are not recognised as direct beneficiaries. So they have to make collaboration agreements – which is a bit strange – with the municipalities themselves, which are on their boards of directors. I mean, in all this we see that punch is missing. And if we go back to paragraph (a) of that article 5, where it talks about labour intermediation, then the Government itself has said what it thinks about labour intermediation, a few hours ago, with sufficient notoriety, to consider that the Government has not only thrown the towel, but that it is almost impossible any attempt at resuscitation. That is perhaps why our apathy to bring an amendment here, which would be in the same terms as the initiative itself, because the initiative does what it does is to collect previous agreements. I mean, more and more and more of the same. What we believe is that at this point it will be difficult as the government takes the heat or actually activates, because the inertia achieved leads us to think that this is going to be so. However, and contrary to what Mrs Arregi says, the opposition is in this House to do what belongs to a parliament, and it is to control and drive government action. In this case check to see their lack of diligence in implementing these local and regional employment plans, in principle of annuality, and also because the Government, even with agreements adopted here that the nationalist bench has signed, as will happen today with point 1, but will not change the state of things. Therefore, we, even without much conviction, or with much hope, must continue to do what is expected of an opposition group: control and drive government action. Criticizing is done by the opposition and by the Government and by any other group, whether it supports the Government or is in opposition. Critical analysis is very important for hygiene and mental health, and of course for political debate. That in itself I think is not a demerit, Mrs Arregi. Criticism is important. But here we are doing something more than criticising: we are showing that, indeed, in this specific issue that is brought here, we see that there is a delay, we see that there are important complaints on the part of the collaborating entities. Not only the regional development agencies, which I have already talked about; there are other private collaborating entities that are in this situation described. For example, Forem had to close. In other words, the uncertainty created by the Government with this task is remarkable, and it pushes collaborating entities, whether public or private, into situations of undesirable uncertainty. That said, therefore, we will once again support this initiative, which is the third initiative as it is proposed in the same terms, and we will support point 1 of the addendum amendment. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u109	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Passing on the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Well, yes, Mr. Itxaso, let's see if the third one's won. The point is that we are already at the end of the legislature, and on too many occasions and too many times we have had to remind this government of something that should have been obvious to any government. That he told us at the beginning of the legislature and continuously in all slogans and in all public statements and appearances of all members of the Government, that people were important to the Government. And we have seen with the various policies that have been put in place, especially in the area of social policies and employment, that this has not been the case. I also have to bring back here how this government closed down the conciliation aid tap. That's right, a few weeks ago it comes to us, in an act of absolute propaganda and propaganda, saying that it was going to approve by 2016 a strategic family plan with a bunch of millions of euros, but the reality is that when you have had to implement policies and fulfill the commitments regarding reconciliation of working, family and personal life of Basque families you closed the tap of the corresponding departure. The same is true of the local and regional employment plans, which have been three times in a row by this group that brought this initiative to the Basque Parliament because of its inaction, passivity and atony. The truth is, I don't know what's wrong with them. I don't know what's wrong with you, because it's your competition. They spend the day demanding skills, talking about not being transferred skills, and for a competition that they have, which is fundamental, water all over the place. I'm not saying do new things anymore. It is not even the concrete forecasts that you have entrusted with in your government programme, in your legislative calendar, in your own appearances, are incapable of carrying them out. A government that is focused and focused on the essentials, in the policies that have to do with people, with Basque families (social policy, employment policies), and obsessed and involved, that is, in the usual little things, that are things of the past and that are boring, of course, and bore us very much to the Basques, and of course that do not appear in the first positions, and far away, in all the surveys that are done to the Basque citizens. It is that local and regional employment plans must have been a priority for this Government, and they have not been a priority for this Government. It wasn't once, it was three times! To date they have not adopted the resolution of 2016; last year we had to remind them to resolve the resolution of 2015, because they were going to overlap; we also had to remind them, because it is when we also saw it, that in 2014 they had eaten a call for local and regional employment plans. This should be a priority for this Government. What we don't understand is that we can't understand, when you have skills, you have tools, you have Lanbide, with all the budget Lanbide has, with all the staff Lanbide has... But what are you doing in Lanbide! They do not mediate, they do not manage social assistance, they manage so badly that they have an amount of undue charges that then they are not able to recover anything... What are you doing? Don't interfere, you recognize yourself that it's a disaster. What happens is that what cannot be done is that their inability to manage the Basque Employment Service-Lanbide has an impact on all Basques, has an impact on Basque municipalities and leaves in this case without putting in place an essential programme such as the local and regional employment plans. They have to think about it very well, because, of course, this clearly denotes what this government gives of itself! And finally, for a non-legislative issue, because we were already told that the employment law did not come, a priority law that came in the legislative calendar, man, so you could fix on something and on the many positive things that have been legislated at state level: 244 laws, by the way, of which you have only resorted 23, that is, that so bad should not be, and they have come very well. But they could be seen in one of the provisions contained in those laws, or in fact contained in those laws. Like the Royal Decree-Law to which reference has been made, on 3/2015, of 23 October, approving the consolidated text of the Employment Act. And that's where we talk about the annuality of employment policies. Therefore, Mrs Arregi, I believe that what is lacking in this government is ambition, will and leadership, of what is clear that it has been lacking throughout the entire legislature, and one more proof is the inaction in this area of employment and in this matter that we have brought to this House today, in local and regional employment plans.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u111	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u112	Thank you, ma'am. Well, first shift, I haven't had time to explain what we're gonna do. Of course, since it is a correction to make our corrections, we shall assent to the original proposition, because we agree with it, because it is necessary to make a complaint, and then I shall make a better account of our correction, because in our first turn it is not very clear what we mean by our correction. At the first point, in terms of the needs and characteristics of each area, and together with all the socio-economic actors in the area, we are not only talking about giving more money to those areas where there is a higher unemployment rate and trying to unbalance those rates, but also doing it together with all the socio-economic actors and taking into account the real needs of each area. And then, as we have said or tried to move into the first part, the idea that the development agencies here, or the joint ventures, are the ones who have to take a leading role in the management of these aids. In other words, it is of no use to us that a municipality has more money, if then between the municipalities of the region themselves they do not collide or agree to the processing of these aids. To be done with principles of collaboration, cooperation, and always taking into account the strategic vision of the region. That is what we mean by that first point. And with the second point we are referring to that we are not trying to ask for anything illegal, but we are trying to somehow in those contracts that are made with public money, as in this case, somehow try to shield them from decent conditions. And when we talk about it being a decent job we not only refer to a salary, which at least for EH Bildu... I do not know if for you yes, but for EH Bildu a salary of 645 euros is not a worthy salary. But let us go further: we are talking about conditions laid down by agreements on permits, on safety at work and so on, which meet worthy conditions. We've seen that in some places it hasn't happened. Beyond taking into account only that salary, which, as I say, for us 645 euros, subsidized with public money, would not have to be. And always taking into account at least the... For having a reference! I mean, you could put in other data or other minimum wages, couldn't you? Like the duration of the contract, another minimum wage could be set, but because of a reference, we believe that it is most fair to take account of the sector's reference. That's what we're trying to say. And bearing in mind that if they improve, because there are companies that can improve these agreements, these conditions will logically apply. I don't think we're seriously considering anything illegal. And, well, I would ask... The PNV spokesman said that at least in the first point he would vote in favour. For the rest of the groups, too, to vote in favour of this initiative, which we really believe will substantially improve, or which will improve, if the Government is willing to comply with, these calls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Eubertarians. Amaia too, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u114	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, you have used this to talk a little bit about everything, from aid to conciliation to yesterday's statements from the vice-counsel. Taking advantage of the Pisuerga passing through Valladolid, then, hala, we took advantage and talked a little bit about everything. Of the employment law... Look, from the employment law we have also said, and we will not tire of repeating it: if by adopting or bringing an employment law here we are able to solve the unemployment situation in which all those in this difficult situation find themselves, do not have the slightest doubt that there would be no one, perhaps even more than one employment law. And anyway, as you well know, the passing or not of an employment law is not the magic wand. It fails to solve the unemployment situation in which so many people unfortunately find themselves. Because, if not, so well that you do it throughout the State and you have this Employment Act so well, that you were praising, there would be no situation, the unemployment rates that exist in the State, which, by the way, are well above the unemployment rates that exist in the Basque Country. So, so much passivity, apathy, throwing away the towel... It doesn't look like the data backs up what you're saying. Because saying and saying and saying is free, but the data doesn't support what you're saying. Perhaps that apathy and lack of work, of throwing the towel, is happening in the state, but, of course, here in Euskadi not. The Government continues to work. And you say that local aid and plans have stopped, and that is not true. Every year the call has been withdrawn, and every year it has been resolved, and every year this support has been given to local authorities so that they can hire people in their field. And so it will be done this year too. I have already told you that it is impossible to do so in a natural year, but you continue to do so and you can continue to ask for it as often as you consider it relevant, but when something is asked it is impossible, then it will be impossible. They will be taken out, and have no doubt as to what will be done, and what will be done before this session is over. And what I'm not going to admit is that for some unfortunate words, which have been branded as unfortunate by the counselor himself, for the words that the Deputy Employment Advisor said, that for those unfortunate words, which have been branded as wrong, of wrong, that this will tarnish all of Lanbide's work. Because not everything is wrong in Lanbide, much less. It has been improved; little by little, but it has been improved. An RPT has been approved, the procedures of the RGI and the PCV have been improved. Even this has been positively valued by the Ararteko. And here it may be worth remembering and mentioning what situation Lanbide was in when this government took over. You know, from those dusts, these muds. Do you remember, right, who Lanbide put into operation, and with whom's help? We're gonna keep the positives. We have the competence of active employment policies, which have cost so much to be transferred, and we also have Lanbide. Therefore, let us all work to make Lanbide the focal point for employment intermediation in Euskadi, between companies and job seekers. For that, what we need is for all of us to row in the same direction. And you used to say "positive" to EH Collect, and that's how it is: besides criticism, you have proposed things, but afterwards it is certain that they are not reflected. Not in your extra correction or in your basic initiative, that's not what it is. You've said specific things here, but they don't come together. And then you've said you're very critical about these scholarships, both kinds of contracts and pay, and how you've managed calls, but you're still asking for it. So it's not going to be so bad, I suppose they've got something good. And that's all... The employment law that I replied to Mrs Garrido you also mentioned, Mr Itxaso, and I hope that you will also give your answer. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u115	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Basque Socialists. Hey, mister, aren't you gonna talk about it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u116	Well, in any case, Mrs Arregi, we have already seen from the opposition groups that, in this matter at least, the government is not very smart. That you resort as a recurring argument to the fact that this transfer came with the previous government, and that the resulting problem today has to do with that, man, because it does not seem to us to be the best defense for government action, because this is a legislature that is going to be completed, and of course there has been time to be able to remedy those problems. Secondly, I must say thank you, thanks to the role that your Lanbide party played then was a real punching ball, because it could not come the transfer when it was due, with which it was lost a year; then it came through a management that made its party through an arrangement with the General Budgets of the State, and supposedly bringing together an undamaged commodity, that of the bonuses, remember? Well, I'll remind you: there were 88 million deficits in one year and 40 in another, that commodity that was broken. And finally, tell him that the words of the Vice-Adviser have not been unfortunate. It was really what the government thought. It has reflected what they really feel and think. He has spoken with total clarity and frankness. And that can't be reproached, of course. What happens is that, if a vice-advisor on employment publicly speaks in those scornful terms about Lanbide's role, it seems to us that it's not that he's unfortunate, it's really a shot in the foot directly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u117	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. End of discussion, we vote first, and then we add the letter to the EH Collect Group. (Upsets) Dots? But to add correction... ?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u118	ma'am: Extra and be the basics, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u119	Is there a problem? No. [[Berber]] Correct to add, yes. Click and drag to change the color of the string. (Bearnestly.) Yes, that. It's got two and three points. Then we vote first, then the second, then the third. Add it up. Enmideda de addiction. Look in text, there's 2 and 3. First we vote for the second, okay? We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u120	It was unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for number three, which is all to add. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 20; counters, 53; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u121	The third is not allowed. Next, the original text of the proposition of Euscala, like the Potionian Group, is made to vote. Dots? Okay. It's got two points. We'll vote first. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u122	It was unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the second point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters, 46; rivals, 27; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u123	The second point is approved. Second point on the subject list: "The Moment, introduced by the Members of the House of Housing Institute, Maider Ottagoria Tolasosa EH Collectation. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Madam Olives, it's yours to introduce and dismiss the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u124	Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone. As we said, the Spanish Government, the Minister's Council, had decided to appeal to the Constitutional Court in the 18th of March, in order to present to the Housing Law an appeal of constitutional contradiction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u125	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u126	On Tuesday, almost a month later, this legislature was informed that the Constitutional Court accepts the appeal excited by the Spanish Government. It is a fortnight ago to present the demands which are thought necessary and personified in the process. And, of course, the suspension of articles which have been opposed has been demanded, and in itself they would not be in force, and would not be applicable. The Constitution has been able to examine the law for five months, and to determine the rise of this suspense, and the rhythm of the political circus they live in Spain, I don't think we'll know anything sooner. So, if we don't get the suspense right away, the government we're in can't have the power to start or force society's needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u127	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u128	But this does not mean that the Government will not be able to make necessary developments, and to make everything ready for them to be established. That's why we should put all our forces in the first place, proclaiming and making the necessary pressures to promote suspense. The articles which are in this appeal are, properly speaking, the following: In article 3. Two points: Definitions of the proper use of the house, and of houses without people, of concepts. 4th in the article, two points, the housing, the building, and the social function which the other common elements must perform. 6th in the article, the first point, which collects the stocks which are to be public. 9th in the article, the fourth point, which he receives, by the use of the house, will be able to apply for some time the disproportion of property. In article 56, the first three points, which give rise to the procedure of considering the absence of public housing. 59. The whole article, the whole article which contains the necessary renting of an unpeopled housing, a number of parts of the second point of the third article, most of the measures which are received in the housing which do not conform to the social function which they ought to perform. 64th the whole article is. It's the one that gets the resources to prove inappropriate use of housing. 72. The first point of the article, and part of the third point, which is the privilege of removing houses and buildings, which are not properly preserved and resurgable. 74. The whole article, even in this case, is received by the necessary dismemberment of the housing houses, which are enclosed in the domestic exercises of the mortgages. 75. the whole article, which contains a declaration of dismemberment and urgent occupation. 83. A part of the article, not to observe the rules concerning improper use of overcookation or dwelling-place, is dangerous to the inhabitants, which is considered to be a very serious breach of rule. And a part of the article 84, not to be followed by rules of improper use of overcookation or lodgings, if not dangerous to the inhabitants, is thought to be a serious breach of rule. This appeal, therefore, is not only a question of the subjective right of being a worthy house, but of abolishing the measures contrary to the dismissal. He wants to disarm the most advanced articles of the law. In other words, the measures for making use of the empty housing, for holding on to the housing that doesn't fill the social function that is rejected, including the housing, the housing, the housing property of the benches, and the property of the invaders, to provide for the use of property, and, in general, the precautions to satisfy the present housing requirements. And the arguments used to justify this appeal are not acceptable. It is said that the jurisdiction of the State is dissolved, and it attacks the right of property. I can't believe it! As we said, in the opinion of EH Collect, it's a serious decision. He attacks the auto-engine directly. It is evident that the Spanish Government is not ready to accept and respect the decisions which have been made here. Where are our jurisdictions, which are unique in the case of the housing? And be careful, the Housing Law is not the only law that has been admitted to this legislature and is questionable. Because there's the Haustura Hydraulic Law and the 35-hour work Week of the officials. The attacks follow one another without interruption. It is more and more remarkable that we need an independent state, that we must make decisions here freely, when the majority of this Parliament will not give any such contempt to the decisions which they make. And the appeal is very serious because it makes it uncertain that the essential right to be an estate is to be guaranteed. This is the end and foundation of the House of Housing, that is to say, the public administration is to secure the right of housing to all the citizens. In fine, they have opposed this fundamental principle, though its Spanish constitution proclaims and acknowledges the right of housing. In the name of this fundamental right, the Housing Law offers a tool to the Administration, which has hitherto been but theoretical rights, in order to exercise it in a practical manner. And specially doth it anticipate the efficient instruments: yes, with the housing canon (which is a very efficient means of depreciating empty homes), and with regard to rental necessity, and, of course, also to the deprivation of houses which do not conform to their social purpose. In other words, a subjective housing right was owned above speculation. So to appeal to Housing Law is a violation of the basic rights of all the people. All the citizens are victims of the Spanish decree, and, as is generally the case, the majority of the citizens will be most likely to be the most injured. EH Collect wants the Untasted Basque Country, and Housing Law is useful for that, to prevent the fire. But the object of PP is not to hinder homekeeping, but to protect the interests of financial institutions. This appeal to the Spanish government has made it clear. And, as has been said, it has shown also that this people must have a complete independence, if it will protect the rights of all the people, because if it follows in Madrid it will be impossible. And this motion that we have presented answers to all. And then we'd make three demands of it, but finally, we got what we were proposing, and we came to a half-way. And what will be accepted will be essentially this: The practice of the Eusun law, in answer to its due jurisdictions, is to present itself to the constitution's unconstitutional resources, and to make conjectures which are obvious. That he should appear during the Eucommy process and be able to arrange terms against the sub-constitutional appeal, as well as the suspension of read-up articles. And finally, I'm asking you to develop and start all the measures and initiatives that are needed for the Initiation of the House Law. And I'm really glad that Eubertarians have come to the group and the Basque Socialists to propose this medium with the group, and I'd like to thank Mr. Bishen Ichaso and Mr. Gherage to be able to do it. It is clear that a vast majority of this legislature is prepared to oppose the attacks which follow from the Spanish State. And that's the way we're going together to defend our rights and our jurisdictions, we have to overcome all the obstacles we're going to be placed in. In other matters, for instance in social matters, we may perhaps have a greater difficulty in getting to harmony, which is obvious in everydayness, but we must make a defence for self-organization, in order to oppose these attacks and those who are to come. If we were to react like this at every assault on our self-portrait and our jurisdiction, we'd be in a different situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u129	Thank you, Madam Mount. This is the turn of the teams that are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Socialists' teams. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u130	Definitely, the Spanish Government and the People's Party confuse the 1978 Constitution with the Outlaw of the Spanish. And I don't say it as mere occurrence. It is clear that its organizational background, the People's Alliance, did not vote for it. But it is also, as has been said here, that the People's Party Government is resorting to absolutely everything. A crusade has been launched against the social and democratic state of law and against the guarantee of the right to autonomy of nationalities and regions, of article 2, a crusade to the cry of "Mariano and closes Spain", by which really autonomous competition, which in this case is exclusive, as has already been said, in the matter of housing, is directly intended to be emptied of content. I have to admit that the appeal as such and the documents accompanying it have arrived..., at least to me have arrived a few hours ago, and therefore I have not had the opportunity, in the end, to make a slightly deeper reading, and therefore it seemed to me a little reckless to try to get inside, let's say, the contents. There will be time for it. But it must be said that the general arguments raised by the appeal of the Government of Spain are already based on a presumption that the Housing Act has at no time raised. And it is also a kind of tic, because in a preventive report, which the Spanish Government already sent when it was at the beginning of the process of law, it was already announcing that all, all, would have recourse to unconstitutionality. I mean, we were bonding with the males. The Government was therefore already raising that point. And on the basis of what did he propose? It is that the Basque housing law aims nothing less than to define the essential content of the property. Of course, it turns out that it is true that the Andalusian decree, appealed at the time, started solemnly saying that, that it came to define the essential content of the property, which Basque housing law never does. At no time does he say that he will come to define the essential content of the property. What comes to say is that it wants to define the social role of housing, that this is also another constitutional precept, 33, the famous article 33, which recognizes the right to property and inheritance but, however, all this is done delimited, the content of the property, according to the laws, in the social function, and that no one can be deprived of their rights and property but for justified reasons of public utility or social interest, which is what the Housing Act proposes, in short. In short, what it raises is, for example, in relation to uninhabited housing, which it also raises as if it were, in the end, an excess. The Council of State itself remembers this, but finally, the Law on Local Finance, which is already long-standing in relation to the chapter relating to the tax on immovable property, speaks of the possibility of imposing a tax on empty dwellings by the municipalities. Another thing is that the legislator, who is a state in this case, did not legally develop what empty housing is, and it is true that it ends up being an indeterminate legal concept, except when a regulation, the one that the government has to do, ends up defining in our area what empty housing is. But it is not a strange body that is grave, that takes into account that empty housing..., as stated in article 47 of the Constitution, that all Spaniards have the right to decent and adequate housing, and that the public authorities will promote the necessary conditions and establish the relevant rules. Who is going to set these rules? Does the State have no competence in this matter? It can only be by autonomous law; here, in Navarre, in the Canary Islands... in all those places where the Government of the State has appealed. Yesterday there was a day at the Maritime Forum precisely to analyze the Housing Law, and one of the expert speakers said one thing that is true, and it was that it drew the attention that the Housing Law of Catalonia, which has a similar scope or even pointed out that greater than ours, has not been resorted to. It therefore gives the impression that the Spanish Government sometimes moves with a certain venality, because, if there are other sectoral housing laws that are more far-reaching and have not been resorted to, that means that they are not based on legal bases, but on issues or criteria of political opportunity. Therefore, the initiative that Euskal Herria Bildu brings we could not but subscribe to it. It would seem interesting to us that this initiative, which has finally been fucked with the Nationalist Party, by Euskal Herria Bildu and by the Socialist Group, should therefore obtain the maximum consensus of this House, because we are talking about the essential contents of self-government, not property. They are the competences of our Autonomous Community, and others which have also legislated in this area and which have been appealed against. It is therefore a matter of defending our competences. There's no competitive invasion. Because, of course, then, when he speaks of..., in addition to a contradiction also, in what little I have seen very superficially, he says: "Man, is that the law wants to define the social function". What are we left with? In what do you defend an essential content of the property, or its social function? On the other hand, to reside in the Constitutional Court today is not to offer many guarantees of impartiality or independence even, is it not?, for well-known reasons. So, of course, this appeal (recourse also at the last moment, that is to say in the discount time, in office, and supplanting the President, Mr Rajoy, the Vice-President), I would like to say that it also gives rise to sometimes somewhat avious readings, because there has been time to appeal, to the extent that the Government announced the eventuality of resources as soon as the presentation procedure began. Mrs Llanos was telling us last week about this paper, and she was also saying in a somewhat derogatory way, that in that paper we met there to discuss endless philosophical and other debates. I have always understood that that is out of antonomasy the activity of a parliament, to legislate. Laws are the star product of a parliament, and precisely legislation entails a responsibility, it really entails a certain complexity, and all those debates that you find so idle and boring precisely took into account the notes that the Spanish Government had already made in its various reports on the purpose of resorting to the Constitution, whatever the final result of the law. In the area of expropriation, or the most interventionist figures, the same applies again: that competition for the economy is something that belongs to the State, etc., etc. And yet, all these figures are of an exceptional nature, and it is an intervention that is always subject, as a residual clause, to the absence of a housing solution. Because if in the Constitution it says that all Spaniards have the right to have decent and adequate housing, and that in addition to that the public authorities must promote the necessary conditions, then this is what this House has done, trying to promote the necessary conditions, taking into account the arguments that the Constitutional gave to the Andalusian decree-law. Therefore, this residual clause is always in the absence of a housing solution. Because, if the rules of the State and that suspension of evictions and all those rules that the Constitution itself brought into force must be pre-eminence, well, they must have it. Therefore, there will be no problem of housing solution, and then those items will not operate. They would only operate, ultimately, if Spanish legislation or the measures of the Spanish Government did not bear fruit and at one point a person or a cohabitation unit were thrown into the street. Because what you will not deny me, ladies and gentlemen, is that for an article as solemn as Article 47, which sets out the guiding principles that everyone has the right to decent and adequate housing, you will not deny me that it is rather paradoxical that, with such a solemn declaration, we have seen in recent years precisely how that right did not take place and how, rather, the opposite was happening, did we not? Therefore, this law has, among other things, been designed to precisely try to make this constitutional principle a reality at least within our competence. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u132	Yes, thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. Unfortunately, we are discussing the Housing Act again, and I am saying unfortunately because the best thing would have been that this Housing Act would have been passed once it was immediately implemented, but the truth is that, for some or others, this Housing Act is still not being implemented. That is why this debate is ongoing over time, and we have no choice but to continue to defend the essential contents of that Housing Act that we ourselves with our only vote made possible. In this case we discussed the Housing Act, this case, on the proposal of EH Bildu and in relation to the interim suspension of the law by the Constitutional Court, once admitted to the proceedings of the Government of Spain. The Constitutional Court has issued an order allowing the appeal to proceed and suspending the law, which does not condition its final decision, but gives it a period of five months, which may be extended, in which the Housing Act will not be in force and during which it may decide on the matter. The Constitutional Court announces that it will transfer the file to both the Basque Government and the Basque Parliament, so that within 15 days they can enter the proceedings and make any allegations they deem appropriate. And from there and from these arguments EH Bildu's proposal. Let us say that our whole amendment is more political than legal, because we believe that the issue is above all political. I believe that the amendment of the whole of UPyD is clear: we propose that this Parliament reaffirm and reassert the subjective right to access to decent and adequate housing, a right enshrined in the Housing Act which seeks to give effect to the right to housing set out in Article 47 of the Spanish Constitution. The Housing Act recognizes the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of decent and adequate housing, and provides that compliance with this right may be claimed before the competent housing department of the Basque Government, and that the decisions of this Administration shall be subject to appeal before the Dispute-Administrative Court. The Housing Act, with the effective recognition of the subjective right to decent and adequate housing, makes, in our view, effective and real and claimable the right to housing under article 47 of the Constitution, so that in this way one of the essential rights contained in our Constitution is not a mere declaration of intentions without practical effectiveness, or, in other words, wet paper. To have a subjective right is to have a right. In other words, the citizen has a right for himself, and as such, it means that this ownership is recognized by the State, understood as the whole of the public authorities. Legitimacy for exercising subjective law refers to the set of conditions that the objective rule requires for subjects seeking access to and enjoyment of it. It is the legal provision itself, in its context with the others of the legal system, that indicates the requirements that the person must meet so that he or she can have the legitimacy that the law requires to exercise his or her right validly. The Housing Act is an important milestone in deepening social rights. We are proud of our decisive vote, and today we claim it again. When the reactionary tide falls and passes for a while, this Housing Act, despite all the defects that it may suffer, will be an example for other political communities. The consideration of access to decent and adequate housing as a subjective right helps to close a circle that, without fear of error, is of great value in terms of social protection. The right to health, education, income security income and the right to occupy decent housing are the pillars of a democratically advanced society. It is normal, because this has always been the case, that in the face of every social or labour advance we must confront those who are afraid of the extension and strengthening of social rights. In this case, it is clear that the same thing is happening. I really do not know what is worse, if the obstacles of the Government of Spain, trying to prevent this Housing Law from finally being applied in Euskadi and then extending to the rest of the autonomous communities, or the obstacles of the Basque Nationalist Party, certainly more subtle and elegant, but obstacles and traps also prior to the adoption of the law, by trying to scare the citizens and lie about their real content. Let us recall those statements by the spokesman for the Government on the so-called effect that this law would cause, or on the budgetary catastrophe that this law would cause, or on the social cuts that the Basque Government would be obliged to push as a result of the adoption of the law. And also, I say, after its adoption, by means of a draft decree, which sought and intended to limit the scope of the law. Therefore, I do not know what is worse, if the obstacles of the Spanish Government or the obstacles of the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party. In any case, it is clear that both the People's Party and the Basque Nationalist Party have this law great, because for them it is excessively progressive, and because it seeks to realize a right recognized in the Spanish Constitution itself, as is the right to enjoy decent and adequate housing. In our humble opinion, and beyond what the Constitutional Court says, whose final decision we will obviously respect, this law is a good law, because it is a necessary law for the vast majority of citizens and because it poses real solutions to a very serious problem such as lack of housing. And in our opinion, and beyond that we respect and abide by what the Constitutional Court finally points out, and we clearly announce that we will respect and abide by what the Constitutional Court finally says, this is a law, in our opinion, perfectly constitutional. What should be declared unconstitutional is, for example, that the Basque Government has empty housing while people have to sleep on the street. This would have to be illegal and unconstitutional. In short, it is a law that establishes and realizes the subjective right to access to decent and adequate housing; it is a law that establishes certain measures that would prevent evictions, a drama that has suffered in recent times hundreds of Basque citizens, and it is a law that states that all public housing must be rented. It therefore puts forward reasonable proposals in our view. Therefore, beyond recognizing the right of the Government of Spain to appeal to the laws of this Parliament, and beyond complying with what the Constitutional Court definitely decides, we claim the Housing Act as a law that we believe is constitutional, advanced, progressive, just and necessary for citizens. This is not so much a matter of defending self-government or defending our competences. I think it is rather a matter of defending a law that we consider useful, just and necessary. With regard to the competition conflicts, which have been multiplying in recent times between the Spanish Government and the Basque Government, beyond blaming one government or another, I believe that this multiplication of competition conflicts shows that the autonomous state is failing, and that a constitutional reform must therefore be carried out in order to put order in all this, so that the competences of the Spanish Government are meridically clear as to what they are, and it is also clear what the competences of the Basque Government are. I think it is normal that there should be conflicts between governments in a democracy; what does not seem normal to us is that there should be conflicts every week between the Basque Government and the Government of Spain. It is certainly a consequence of the measures taken by the Basque Government on many occasions, it is almost always so, but in this case it is not a question of looking for culprits. The aim is to promote a constitutional reform in order to clarify the competences of the Spanish Government and the competences of the Basque Government. This, I believe, is corrected by constitutional reform, to move towards a federal state of symmetry and solidarity. I think this is what should be done. This really is what we think Spain needs. And, by the way, not an asymmetric federal state, not a federal or confederal state, but a symmetric and solidarity federal state, with clear competencies in one government or another. I think this would save us a lot of trouble. And I also think that we would save ourselves a lot of trouble if you all took your hands off the Constitutional Court. It would also be a good measure of democratic regeneration. That is, that the Constitutional Court ceases to be colonized by you, that is, by the majority political parties. I think it is also an appropriate measure, a measure of democratic regeneration, which will certainly come sooner than later. I believe that the Constitutional Court, and the Supreme Court, and the General Council of the Judiciary must be depoliticized. You can do it at the Congress of Deputies. We hope that it can be done as soon as possible. Finally, I would like to say that I generally agree with Mr Itxaso's intervention, especially when he stressed the exceptional nature of certain approaches and measures which are introduced in this Housing Act, and which have certainly been controversial proposals. I think it is important to point out that all of them are of an exceptional nature and that they would apply in the absence of a housing solution. I believe that Mr Itxaso has explained this perfectly well at that point too. We'd vote in principle...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u133	Thank you, Mr. Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u134	... our amendment, although in relation to the compromise amendment I have to say that we basically agree with the first two points, but not with the third. It seems to us that the third is to call intrusion. I believe that the courts and their rulings must be respected, we believe that the Constitutional Court's rulings must also be respected, and in reading that third point I think there is a certain call for inference. We don't agree on that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u135	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u136	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good afternoons. On this subject, our team, the eu-virtist, has presented a correction, and this correction has three points. We have, as I say, three proposals. The first, be it the Parliament itself, as author of this Housing Act, is the person who is subject to the unconstitutionality appeal lodged by the Government of Spain against it. We believe it is important for this House, the Basque Parliament, to participate in this case and for people to defend the Housing Act. Secondly, even if the above-mentioned law has not been promoted by the Government, the Government will also take part in the decision to take part in the proceedings initiated for that purpose. We believe it is necessary for both institutions, Parliament and Government, to take part in the defence of the Housing Act, because we believe that both Parliament and the Government must come out in defence of the competence of our Autonomous Community in the field of housing. Thirdly, we propose that, regardless of what results from the unconstitutionality remedy, the Government continue to deepen the system of subsidies to meet the housing needs of the most disadvantaged groups in our society. We believe that this last point is included, which is perfectly subsumed in the third point of the compromise amendment agreed by the three groups. Our position on some aspects of the Housing Act with which we disagree is well known, but this is neither an obstacle nor an obstacle for us to agree with other groups in the defence of our competence in the field of housing. It does not imply, in our view, any contradiction. That is why we support this initiative aimed at the protection, conservation and development of the housing potential offered by the current competition regime. Not only do we support it, but we believe that with our proposal for Parliament we reinforce it. We understand that this remedy of unconstitutionality is another action within the attack on the Basque self-government that is part of that re-centralizing strategy practiced by the Rajoy Government in recent years, which is concrete, among other ways, in other ways, in the permanent judicialization of the Basque self-government. That is why the characterization in this resource is understood as a defense of self-government; a defense that our party has been carrying out, has been practicing historically. By referring to our position on the specific case of the Housing Act, we must recall the express pronouncement of the lehendakari before a full oral question by Mr Itxaso last October. In his reply to Mr Itxaso, the Lehendakari explained five reasons that the Government will use in the defence of the law, claiming the full right of Euskadi to articulate its public policies, and that the remedy of unconstitutionality is an interference of the Government of Spain, which attempts to restrict our ability to legislate, which violates our self-government. A response from the Lehendakari who, according to his statements, satisfied Mr Itxaso's concern in this regard. Or, more recently, ten days ago, that of Mr Toña's adviser before the question of Mrs Otamendi, which gives rise to the motion we are debating today. In it, Mr Toña said that the law passed by this Parliament is a law that the Government endorses, develops and implements. The chief physician said, "that to develop the Housing Law as a whole" while Eusk0 is trajecting the appeal, that the article rejected will be defenseless of continuing to continue. To explain our position before this initiative we believe that it can help the old saying that "it is not for the egg but for the furo", the question of distinguishing between the furo and the egg. Whoever wants to defend the fury (i.e. the competences of Euskadi) will have us at his side, even if the egg (in this case the content of the Housing Law) is not entirely to our liking. That is to say, we demand the right of Euskadi to make a bad law, the right of this Parliament to err in its housing policy. In short, what we are demanding with our amendment, which is basically incorporated in the compromise agreed between the Bildu, Socialist and our own groups, is that in addition to the Government, which has already said that it is going to defend the Housing Act before the Constitution, Parliament is also taking part in this lawsuit to defend the said Housing Act. The General Administration of the State must understand that the majority position of this Parliament is to defend the exclusive powers of housing recognized in the Statute of Autonomy. It is the defense of the political pact with the State sanctioned by the popular will of Euskadi, manifested in 1979. Finally, two questions. One, thank Mrs Otamendi and Mr Itxaso for their willingness to reach agreement on this. And also wish the legal services of this House luck, and we say luck because we understand that their professionalism is beyond doubt. That's all, and thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u137	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing to groups that don't run, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u138	Thank you, Madam President. Get out of the way. Well, we don't discuss anything new in this House, it's not a novel debate, and maybe this is the worst: that history is repeated again with the same sham, the arguments..., some have changed a little, and the same goals as ever. And, following the tone of the chorus that Mr Aldaiturriaga also said, I will say a saying that even some do not like it because it is very chaste, very Spanish, which is "and what I will round you brunette", because it will not be the last time the Housing Law comes to this House. And the discussions that had taken place were likely to take place, and the interventions of both sides too. At the time of the inquiry, the appeal had actually been lodged, but there was no ruling from the Constitutional Court, and last week the Constitutional Court issued an order admitting the appeal and depending on part of the rule appealed. The same arguments have been heard again, the People's Party has been accused once again of not wanting to guarantee the right of the Basques. Moreover, it has come to the point that anyone who opposes this Housing Act is opposed to Basques having a home, anyone who opposes this Housing Act is not progressive and does not want to recognize the rights of Basques. As I said the other day, some just want to talk from the demagogy, and, well, when some want to highlight or put on the table that demagogy of what we are accused of is being antisocial. We were antisocial by pointing out that this law was not a good law, it was a bad law. But this Parliament clearly has to have the power to make a good law or a bad law, but it has the power to make a law that does not involve overcompetence, which we said at first that this law was involved. That bill reflected the failed socialist bill, and added a new paragraph, which was a plagiarism – I said at the time – of the decree of the Andalusian Government, whose accuracy already offered multiple doubts. It also offered doubts about the fit in the Constitution. But not only did he offer us doubts to the Government that appealed him, but not only did he appeal to the Constitutional Court: the Constitutional Court said that this decree was unconstitutional. Well, the law was passed here, and it had large doses of legal uncertainty, because, as I said and said at the time, it exceeded the legislative powers of the Basque Parliament. There was a surplus in matters such as the right to property, expropriations, tax powers, under the law of public administrations. It is true that we have competence in urban planning and housing, but of course we do not have competence in the regulation of the right to property, as the State has repeatedly said and as the Constitutional Court, for example in judgments such as 61/1997, has made clear. And this law, as I say, has an effect on the status of property, which, in accordance with article 33 of the Constitution and under the jurisdictional reservation provided for in 149.1.1 and 149.1.18 (Mr. Itxaso, I do not invent it), is the responsibility of the State. In other words, there are matters regulated by this law that directly affect the status of the right to property and whose regulation is exclusively the responsibility of the State. For this reason, regulations such as the uninhabited housing canon, forced rent or forced expropriations clash with that constitutionally recognized right, and for this reason a number of articles have been appealed, which I am not going to repeat here today because the proposer has already shown them. It is also considered that these articles invade the basic competences that guarantee the equality of all Spaniards in the exercise of their rights and in the fulfilment of their constitutional duties in the field of civil law. The remedy shows measures such as administrative eviction, expropriation of housing, forced sale, preferential right of acquisition, forced rent... The imposition of fines and sanctions is done without any graduation between them, violating the principle of proportionality. And, in opposition to articles 24, 2, 25 and 149 of the Constitution, a sanctioning regime is established for the owners of vacant dwellings on the basis of a system of presumptions, regardless of the principles governing criminal or administrative sanctioning liability in the Spanish legal system, that there is no liability until proven otherwise. The appeal shows that part of the arguments that were made in this House during the adoption and processing of the law were true, that this law was born with large doses of legal uncertainty, and in the debate there were groups that have already shown it. It is true that here, well, it seems that Bildu doesn't care, it doesn't matter whether constitutional or non-constitutional precepts are violated; Mr.Itxaso, then, when he goes behind the banner that no one wins, with which he also doesn't care. And strangest..., well, not strange, the position was predictable, but it is the one that most perplexity causes, that of the Basque Nationalist Party, because when the law is passed the Basque Government itself expresses doubts about the legal security by the mouth of Mr Toña, today present. And Lehendakari himself said, when asked about the appeal, that the Basque Nationalist Party had warned in the handling of the legislative initiative that this law could be appealed to the Constitutional Court. Then he also had some doubts about his constitutionality. However, then the Basque Government, when the appeal is brought, tears the clothes. It's okay if you contradict each other with it. You have shown that you are capable of passing over your own arguments, because the goal is always Madrid, you have said, the goal is the fury, and in that goal of charging against Madrid, that great political demon, well, that's all! You, whatever responsibility you have on that bench, in that of the Basque Government, do not do anything that will allow you to charge against Madrid. They are worth anything to put Madrid at the centre of their political criticism, even if it is a law that you yourself considered a very bad law. But, as I say to you, they have been quite predictable, because it supports a long and long strategy of political confrontation with the State, that political noise which they often resort to in order not to be portrayed in their own responsibility, in which they have to present their management balance sheet. And they've been doing political victimism for over 30 years, which is what they do best. And, as I tell you, this strategy is worth everything. They have no objection to going against their own arguments, against their own positions set out in this Parliament and outside. That nothing happens because you warned before anyone about the legal uncertainty that was borne by the approved Basque housing law, the same one that the central government appreciates and that leads to the appeal. Whether you don't remember or don't want to remember that you, as I told you, also pointed out the possible unconstitutionality of the law. In those debates, which, by the way, I didn't say... I didn't underestimate those debates the other day, Mr. Itxaso. Review my words. What I said was that they had been lengthy debates, and that they had been debates in many philosophical cases. But not only in relation to constitutionality, no. There we also discuss the influence that it had on the competences of local administrations, of the parliaments, of the budgets of the various institutions... We've discussed a lot, a lot of things. Well, as I was telling you, even though all those debates raised the unconstitutionality of the law, it now seems that for the Basque Nationalist Party all these arguments have been deleted, and now it focuses – you have said well – on what needs to be done. And what's to be done? Go against Madrid! Go against Madrid, wear and criticize the central government. The truth is that it is an exercise in political schizophrenia, forgive me for telling you, because it cries out to heaven that you now criticize the government for questioning exactly the same thing that this government also put itself on the table at the time. Because – you have said this – the important thing is that the central government, in the exercise of its responsibilities, has filed an appeal of unconstitutionality, and it doesn't matter whether you agree or even share it. No! No! The important thing is to go against the central government. The Housing Law, which to yourselves, as you have said, Mr. Aldaiturriaga, seemed to them a bad law, had legal doubts, you rejected it... But it's okay, now it's all right. I'm still on the next one.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u139	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Passing to responses turn. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u140	Thank you. Mr. fountain, bad law, bad... We won't say that it's perfect, of course, everything's better to improve, you know, but to say that a law that has been congratulated on different sides is bad, you better tell them you don't like it. The Housing Law raises a 40 by the rule, and for the present only one has been developed, of the deposit and trustfulness of the deposit. But since the law passed, 10 months ago, the growth of the law would have to be even more advanced. So there's something to do. There are several ways to work as fast as possible. For example, the production of a public organism for domestic affairs must be introduced into a collection of non-peopled housing houses, or a public rental park must be increased, and all necessary means be directed to it. We were able to tell you during yesterday's activities that 162 rentals have already been collected (consecrately at 106, Biscaia, 38, Typic, and 18, Aban), but there is still in the process of development a decree for the subjective right of the apartment, and in order to give proper answers to these demands, the housing is insufficient. If the active policies for increasing the public park are not immediately active, we are very much afraid that this subjective right to the housing should not be effective, i.e. instead of raising a decent apartment, it will be limited to receive another preparation. And that is not the end, not at all. In some cases it must be so, but in the least cases it should be so. So if this government really begins to fill up what we will accept at the third point, and to develop and resume all the measures and enterprises required for the legislative application of Housing. You'll find us here taking a strict course and, of course, always ready to help anything.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u141	Thank you, Madam Mount. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u142	Well, I'm of the belief that all laws are bad for those who have no intention of complying with them. I'm more than clear about that. What laws are almost never, or rather never, is perfect. The laws, logically, cannot contain all the predictions. However, the one approved here last year in the area of housing, I believe that no one who enrolls in what is comparative autonomous law and what are advanced housing policies, tries to get stuck with that idea. The Housing Act was not raised, at least as a proposing group, either to challenge the State or to provoke the Government. In fact, I would like to remind you, Mrs Llanos, that this Housing Law now used in some of your articles was adopted, as it is clear, by Union, Progress and Democracy, by Euskal Herria Bildu and by the Socialist Group, but you know that this Law contains many contributions from both your group and the Nationalist Group, because it was about carrying out a text that was actually as consensual as possible, although logically there will be discrepancies, because the ideological, logically, will also manifest itself in a sectoral law as is the Housing Law. I don't know exactly where you heard it, Mrs. Llanos, saying that if the Housing Act was invoked, then it was against... No, no! That was within the scope of the possibilities, because they had been announced, because indeed the offensive of constitutional recourse and competition conflict is already a common place with this Government, and therefore it was to be expected. On what is constitutional and what is not constitutional in a text, I think it is very robust and perhaps quite adventurous to say, because the judgment that fell upon the Andalusian decree-law had particular votes, particular votes of magistrates who were in that same court. Particular votes against the ruling that clearly state that in that case in the case of the Andalusian decree-law there was capacity and competence to legislate in those terms. Therefore, to veto oneself a priori, because of a possible unconstitutionality that, as I say, is always subject to interpretation, for, man, that does not cease to be a claudication and an intellectual resignation. If we have a competitive acquis, and in the area of housing, it is exclusive competence, which is not the case in other sectoral areas! And if we talk about housing, only by autonomous law, as I said before, we can legislate. And if property, in this case housing, has a social function, the law has to delimit (the autonomous law in this case) its social function. Of course, in no case was it the intention to carry out a challenge to the State or anything like it, but to seek the elastic limit of the legislative possibilities that this House has, especially in order to meet a need and a right that, as I have said, has been violated not only a few times. And the reasons given by the State in this case, as it did with the Andalusian decree-law, sincerely seem to us to be very strong arguments. Because by taking them to the extreme, the competitive acquis of autonomy could really be emptied of absolute content. Because the possibility of intervention of a dwelling exists from before, eh!, has not been brought by the Housing Law. I remind you of the Soil Law, which is also referred to in the report of the Council of State. Or even, when a municipality, a municipality, makes an order of execution to a property, isn't the property intervening? Also! And why is that possible, and is it not possible for a law to seek to allocate adequate housing resources to the needs of the population?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u143	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u144	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Itxaso looks like UPyD. (Barreak) It explains everything very well. And so it is: everything that has to do with the Housing Act, Mr Itxaso, I think, explains it perfectly well, and I basically agree with what he proposes and how he proposes it. We have had a lot of debate on the Housing Act in recent months. Our positions were explained in the parliamentary presentation and in the amendments we tabled. I believe that there was indeed some controversy, there were some measures introduced in that law that provoked controversy, which were even contradictory. But, as Mr Itxaso has explained, they are, let us say, exceptional measures, and therefore we gave the okey to that legal text. Of course not to challenge the state, Mrs Llanos, but because we really thought and continue to think that it is an advanced, just, progressive, useful law for citizens. And that's why we gave the okay. Not to put our finger in the eye in Madrid, not to challenge the state, but because we thought it was a fair law, and we were also convinced and still convinced that it is a fully constitutional law. We really think about it. We are finally wrong, but today we still think that all the approaches included in that law are fully constitutional. That is why we gave the okey to this law: because the subjective right to decent and adequate housing is established, because it proposes measures that would prevent evictions against citizens, and because it proposes that all public housing be rented, that in the end these are measures that we have put forward in this Parliament over the last seven years. The Government of Spain brought an action for unconstitutionality, and the Constitutional Court effectively suspended the rule. Well, I think it is reasonable for this Basque Government, since it endorses this law passed by this Parliament, to decide to stand up, to stand in the process, and to make allegations. This seems perfectly reasonable to me. And that this same Parliament, even respecting the decision of the Government of Spain to bring such an appeal and also respecting what the Constitutional Court can decide, seems reasonable to me that this Basque Parliament also presents itself and makes its allegations, in order to defend precisely the text with the idea that it is fully constitutional. I believe that in this case, Mrs Llanos, you have passed, let's say, a bit of a brake. It seems to me that at this point, since the law has been passed, it seems reasonable to me that we stand before that appeal and make our allegations. In any case, what we do say is that we will respect what the Constitutional Court says. We respect the law and we respect the courts and we respect their sentences. Today we believe that this law is fully constitutional, so the first two points of the compromise amendment that have been signed by the three main groups in this House seem reasonable to us. Not the third, where the Basque Government is urged to develop and implement as many measures and initiatives as necessary for the full implementation of the Housing Act. I think we must take into account what the Constitutional Court has said, and what it can say definitively in the coming months. That is why, in my first speech, it seemed to me that the third point was a kind of call to submission, and that is why I am not going to support that third point. The other two points seem to me to be reasonable, they do not seem to me unbridled, reached this point where the Housing Act was passed by this Parliament and the Basque Government took it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u145	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eural representative, Mr. Altar fountain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u146	Thank you, ma'am. I'll take it from the seat and I'll be quick. Mrs Otamendi, and also for Mr Itxaso, when I spoke of bad law was merely dialectic effects, it was simply a matter of discussion between us, because we understand that it is clearly better. And yesterday we were in Bilbao, in fact, we agreed the three, but at the entrance there was a people who were protesting in favor of subjective law, and precisely those people gave us documents that talked about the bad Housing Law because it did not solve their problems. I mean, we're not the only ones talking about a bad housing law. Also those affected, those who claim that this rule solves this problem. Mrs. Llanos, we have not opposed... It is true that we have spoken that this law runs the risk of being resorted to by the Constitution and that it has the possibility that the General Administration of the State can win the case. But we have not opposed it for that reason. We have opposed, for example, the issue of uninhabited housing because it does so in a poor way, and specifically the question of the canon is not because it invades the competences of the State, but in our view what it does is to invade the competences of the historical territories. And the same applies to the expropriation of the use of housing: we understand that Euskadi has skills to expropriate housing, what happens is that they are poorly oriented, poorly focused. That's the point. We present, as you well know, an initiative in this regard, when we process the law, separating what is personal responsibility, particularly of individuals, from what is the responsibility of the system. When you decide to hire a credit and there is a certain risk that you won't be able to pay it, what you can't pretend is that in case of default we are all the ones who replace your personal responsibility. In the face of this, when the market is unravelling and destroying with everything, with pensions, with aid, etc., and so on, we understand that in that case there must be a public system that guarantees, that removes the fear of these people. That is why, in the end, what I am saying, we are opposed for reasons other than invading the powers of the Autonomous Community, we were opposed to this law. And on the subject of recentralisation, in short, tomorrow we will talk about this matter long and wide, and now we are not going to... Although Mrs Otamendi has already pointed out that not only with the resources of unconstitutionality, but through the contentious resources she is also permanently curtailing the State's sphere of decision, our powers. I think I remember Mr Erkoreka talking about thirty-three resources yesterday. Anyway, I think it's a relatively large amount. But it is not just a question of the Basque Nationalist Party or even of this Parliament. If it is a cry between all the opposition and all the autonomous communities, even those governed by you. I mean, that refocusing effort is there, and I refer to the facts, and therefore they speak for themselves. It is not an invention of the Basque Nationalist Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u147	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Finally, the Euskal Potula Group representative. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u148	Thank you again, Madam President. Let's see if I can finish now. Well, Mr Itxaso, it has been said here in the text, in the first speech by the representative of Bildu, that anyone who did not support this law was against the rights of citizens. And if not, read your words later. That you can't make a law based on whether it's unconstitutional or not? Man, yeah, but the point is that there are certain issues... Of course, in law things are discussed, there are different positions. That's why there are courts, and that's basically why there's the profession of lawyer. That if the right were "two and two, four", then, obviously, it wouldn't make much sense. But there are issues that are clearly invading constitutional precepts, and more when there were already precedents such as the Andalusian housing decree. It's not a matter of suspicions, clues... No! No! But it's not just about competition. It was, in some cases, because it was contrary to other constitutionally recognized rights. And I said this when the law was debated here: if we do not want the right to property to exist, then the Constitution is amended and that this right does not exist. But if there is, and there is a collision, the two rights must be taken into account. And, by the way, forced expropriation, Mr Aldaiturriaga, is precisely one of the issues which, according to 149.1.18, is the exclusive competence of the State. For example. But if you have said so yourself in your speech! He is saying: "There are many doubts about constitutionality, and there are probably many views that the Constitutional Court will eventually declare these non-constitutional precepts." If you said so yourself! And arguments have been used here, such as the need to defend what comes out of this Parliament. Hey, even if it's against the Constitution? And I of course claim the right to say when a law does not seem good to me, that it is a bad law! That does not mean that we have not always said that there has to be a housing law, but a good housing law. And this is not a good law. It's not a good law! And, as much as this Parliament and a parliamentary majority approved it, this group did not vote for it. Why? Because I thought it was a bad law. In the same way that there may be laws like some that will soon come here, that it has an amendment to the whole, because it is considered that the draft is bad, and if in the end it does not come out, that amendment will not be won to the whole and that law will come out, we would say that it is a bad law, no matter how much this Parliament has passed it. We'll respect it because it comes out of a legislative chamber, but it's a bad law. And you say, "We make the law our own even if we consider it to be a bad law, even if we consider that some of the precepts are not constitutional." But they do. I have only told you in my first speech. Because, although Mr Toña and Mr Urkullu speak directly, when the law is passed (Mr Toña the day after the law is passed), of the possible unconstitutionality of the law, the next day, and in Onda Vasca Mr Urkullu also, that in the parliamentary debate in this House had been spoken..., the PNV had already warned of the possible unconstitutionality of the law, that yes, when the appeal is lodged, all of them to one like Fuenteovejuna, all tearing their clothes, the "recentralizing obsession", which, by the way, must already be the mark of the house, because they use it from the first to the last of the councillors of this government. It is an expression that has been marked by fire, as in cattle. It's the brand they all have. "Recentralizing obsession", for everything, gives the same, any counselor, whether it is the subject matter in question. But, listen, the appeals are filed, but then in many of them the Constitutional Court declares that you are right. Then who...? So, what's the re-centralizing obsession? Isn't there an excess in the regulation? If you want, you will have to change the Constitution, to say that certain issues from now on are issues that have to be exercised by the autonomous communities. But if, according to the Constitution, they are the exclusive competence of the State and are regulated by the autonomous communities, they are unconstitutional. And that's not a re-centralizing obsession, that's observing the law. Observe the law. And by the way, Mr. Maneiro, you've done a good-natured exercise here because you voted yes to that law, which, if not, let's go! I would have been short on the criticism that you would have made of the Basque Nationalist Party. Because to you, I told you, it's worth everything. They're worth everything! They are worth everything in this cry against Madrid, in this cry of "recentralizing obsession", because with this exercise of political victimism they do what they have always been doing, which is to cover up, not to appear, not to disassemble that myth of the good management of the Basque Nationalist Party at the head of the institutions. Because, if I can blame someone else, I don't have to figure out what I do and how bad I do what I have to do. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u149	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Basque Socialists... Yeah? Correction points?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u150	On the one hand point 1 and point 2, and on the other hand point 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u151	Okay. No problem, right? We'll vote for the 1st and 2 points of middle-correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters of 63; counters, 10; white, 0; abstaining, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u152	They're approved. Next, we'll vote for the third-way point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of 62; the opposites 10; the whites, 0; abstainments, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u153	As a result, the third point is also accepted. Third point in theme list: "Mation, introduced by Patxi Elola Azpeitia by the Basque Socialists, by the Eucotrene between Donostia and Urola Coast. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Ella, it's yours to present the word as an initiative and get rid of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u154	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, President, chief physician. Good afternoon, everyone. At last came the subject of the night-train. The time, we don't mean anything, it's been a change for other reasons. For some people this topic of the night may perhaps be a small thing, but I think many trifling things may be the foundation of great things...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u155	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u156	Today, however, it may be. As you know, I made an interpolation to the owner of the 15 days today, the Basque Mia, and asked for the purpose of the Euskozoa to ensure that all the countries will have a night's work, of course, in places where the Euské Railway is. We asked no more, we asked no more: complete in the net. And the chief physician answered: "From the experience of the century, the Basque offer of techniques decided that the demand appreciated in the hours specified was not fit to be put into a railway service." We believe, therefore, that it was a decision taken from the chief physician, in the presence of esteem and hypothesis...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u157	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u158	According to conjectures and hypotheses, a man would not arrive at maturity if he were not born, if he had not a beginning. First of all, this child should be born. While he bites, we should help him and raise him. And then we'd like to have a long and generous life. Of course, the tutorial, the help, with all the things you need. That's what we want with the night-train. To be a beginning, to be a birth. And after birth, we'll see what a situation it has. So we've got this request for a few years, and it's just the one thing we want to do with the deals. That's what we're planning today. Orin de la gutxi irakurri genuen hedabide batzuetan, eta hala zioen, under the title of "Euskotren last a revolution of schedules in Gipuzkoa for the increase of travelers. The regular use between Irun and Zumaia has been fired at 12.5% in the last two years. That is why it has been decided to extend the service significantly by the end of the year." So if there weren't any service, there wouldn't be any promotion. And we're glad to make this decision, we're glad to see the need, because we see it's been a big promotion. Remember, from Zumai to Donostira, between Hendaia. Our request goes that way, because it's a local order. We see, and this is the test, which we have just said, that from Zima, from Donostania, we must begin with the use of it, and make it necessary to make use of it. Use makes custom, and vice versa, leads us to use when there is custom. As long as the service of Deva-Donostia is not going to start, we'll be left in esteem and hypothesis and not in definite data. So, like the test, or what we'd like to get out of here tonight, we'd start a night-training at the service. Tony Judt said in his book "Something's wrong," that some of you may know, that railway is the most civilian means of transport. There are other characteristics of the train that justify their protection and impulse by the public authorities: it is an environment-friendly environment, the least polluting, the most energy-efficient, it is one of the safest, and it is undoubtedly the one that best vertebrates the territory. The motion introduced by the Socialist group answers to this conviction. This public infrastructure has been built for decades. There are railways and stations, which we have maintained, and, I think, it is reasonable to improve the service which encourages and encourages his use. But not only for financial reasons, not for purely economic reasons, but for all the reasons I have expressed. Don't tell me that the bus that meets this service is already there, or that it will be, or that it will be added. As we have this public structure, train, use it, and offer this service to young and mature people. The purpose of the night is to increase the security of the citizens, either on weekends or in sports and culture, instead of caring, the security of those who prefer to use Eukot's. When a user is provided with quality transport, good frequency, effective and right price, then, no doubt, the user would use night-train. After all, what we ask is that we have service from other countries. It is neither more nor less, it seems. After all, it is a matter of effeminacy; in short, honesty, neutrality, objectivity, and equality are what we ask for. And finally, I want to remind you that without sowing seed, no crops can be sown. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u159	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Madam Mount...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u160	Thank you. We have, above all, given the full correction of the motive which has been introduced between the Euscialists of the Euscials and the Costian Coast, and the interpenetration of the night's service in the course of the interpenetration, especially because our doubt is a service required by the citizens, and that is precisely what he answers to the necessity. We may, in some measure, share in the reasonings given by Mr. Elola, but always if it be really demand, and answer certain ends. We fear that we may fall for ever: to have a purpose, but at last to attain the opposite. That is to say, to encourage the tourism of this environment, and to help the host, amongst other objects, to employ this service, but to prevent it, that people should flee to the capital, and lose their lives in the peoples. And that's why we're asking you to rectify everything we've been describing in the short run of the Euskástés to consider the necessity of moving citizens in that corridor between Donostia and the Coasts and Urola, and suggest the best measure to respond to them. And this examination should not be limited to the answering of a possible demand for the night-school railway service or sporting performances and social performances, but with all priority to answer routine. But that test is not only necessary in terms of economic economy. The social income and, of course, the environmental valuation should also be considered. A test full of hypocrisy is not enough. We don't think we've had enough tests on the cost request that the chief physician explained to us the other day. Before such a service be established, we think we ought to consider the demands and the wants of the people well, and not only what is the best order of the conveyance with the people, but the decision of which we are to encourage them. And the bet of EH Collect is clean in that: we make a firm wager for a tolerable motion, and we believe that all the means we can support it must be established. It seems to us that it is a higher priority for us to plan the improvements of the service of the railway service now existing, especially by increasing the frequency of service among the Deba-Zoma, in order to enable it, by making a duplicate in that couple of Itszians. Or, to go to work, to study, or, whatever it may may be, to win the people's stake for the public transportation, we might, for instance, strengthen the Deba railway station by becoming intermodale, and place a parking disassium on the soil of the Deban.... There are so many things you can do. But, as I have said, we must take a serious examination first and foremost. We have, too, made a few small contrasts of ours, and have made them agree with the representatives of certain municipalities of the passage mentioned, and in general with the necessity of making a thorough examination. You don't need to feel it. Special services to social sports and performances are placed in the townships, parties, or so on, that service takes place punctually. This, for instance, has been remarked to us from Deba, and I meant that what you say is not normal, it often makes it easier for us to go from Deba to Bilba, than to go to the Donostian. And that, it's true, I confess, is not normal. That sounds like thinking. That's why we can't help seeing the need for that test. We have agreed fully in this case with EAJ, which is just like this, sometimes, sometimes, sometimes, often today, and besides, why don't you tell me why our contribution to you is enriched by us? Instead of limiting this exam, it's the responsibility to put it together, because it's the government of the Foru Aldundia and the Gypuzian transportation. Now, since, according to what we perceive, the inquiry will be carried out, we demand that this examination should be done immediately, and that the necessary measures or improvements should be carried out as soon as possible. Just like that.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u161	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u162	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, good evening to all of you. The wager of tolerable transport, among other conditions, leads us to determine the offer, according to the hours, according to the requests, according to our users, and how many kinds of transports are given to make a particular part of it. "To bear" means: Form a real need. And if it be not so, why use the public money almost vain, we can employ it for many other things. Eukotre's technicians are founded on the demands, the previous experiences, and the like actions to make decisions. That's the way it is in this case too. And in this case, on this subject of ours today, the Offering Committee decided that it wasn't necessary to open up the service. On the 23rd of July 2007, between Saturday, Bilbo, and Donostia, special evening hours were established, because they were festivals in a town on the U.S. Coast, and the Rolling Stones were offering a concert in the capital of Gipuia. The results of this special service were very bad: there had hardly been a district railway trip to Donostia. This is a simple example, and, as I have said, it is a data. Do not use resolutions as an excuse to say that they are received from the results of one night and thrown into the face. It's an example. When examples are put in this parliament, they are often made use of as argument, and are misinforced. It is, therefore, an example, and a consideration of that sort. The Eucotian technicians study the cost request for the first night service between Zumia and Donostia. These were the signs of the given railway services: On every Saturday of the year except December 25 and January 1st; in both directions, the establishment of service for two hours, a third worker, two and material workers, and material on the way. Cleanness came in too. The number of 2.337 euros was predicted. It was one night at the Donostia festival, from ten o'clock in the morning until 7 a.m. And the same is done by examining an ordinary Saturday, from ten to seven in the morning. The original occupation index is 14,30. The number of previewed users would be of 64 people. I mean, they would have made 128 trips all night. Of those who receive their mothers and their Royal meeting, 17 more passengers could be made, and more voyages were to be made. 162 voyages throughout the night, and this in the most optimistic case or situation, in the most optimistic expectation. The incomes would be 226.80 euros, and expenses, as I have said, are 2.337 euros. This is not tolerated at all. You have to note that the road's public transport, the bus, does that service, as we said here. It is by no means left to serve this time-table and this monster. This request cannot be examined again without further examination, and the offer of the Eukots says that it is necessary to examine it carefully before the decision is made. However, it may be remarked that the commander-in-chiefs of the Gipulia Transport had not seen the service and the offering necessary. A single user's request was received in the gym. The demands which have come directly to the Eukotre, or the demands made by the Basque buses through the Eibar, Elgobar, and Deba-Donostia, are not even asked for a night service (I mean the buss which the Eukots have arranged and directed by the Eibar, Elgobar, and Deba-Donostia). The only demands made have ever been among the people, never reaching Donostia. The object of the Eukoten and the Department of Transport is to give to the people and to those who use the public transportation the most effective, the most modern and the most extensive service. As a matter of fact, they're constantly working to improve their services in the way of improvement. If the axis of a tolerable politics is to be used by the public, and if it be to lessen the use of private transport, for reasons which we all know, how could it not, if there were any real necessity, establish a service which we are now discussing? The answer to this question is the years' work. When this demand came to an end, the offer of the Eukot's offer decided that the demand which was appreciated in the given hours was not to be started by a railway service. Nevertheless, some services were provided for the need of special events, especially for concerts, and there was hardly any demand. In order to fulfil these special duties, the service by the road was more proper. He appreciates and investigates the offer offers from the Eukots and their influence. This board is composed of technicians, experts, who are expert in the subject. Services are organized according to our request. If you remember all night, at the most optimistic circumstances, we're talking about 162 passengers. After the checkout is completed, we get 10 percent indexes and the average of Eukot's is 40%. With all this, the cost that the service supposes is very important and important. This isn't what we're saying, it's called a team of great experience technicians, it's confirmed by the Eucot offer board. Economy and user's benefit would not be supported by this service. We must note that the public transport, the maintenance of an efficient and useful means of quality, is not economically profitable, and that the government exercises a great deal of effort on this subject. Nevertheless, it is profitable for society, and the person being a shaft, the latter is of immense importance at the time of such a decision. But, as I have said, this service in this case does not conform to the second condition, it does not fulfil the second essential end. If we want the users to give the best transport services, this doesn't mean the solution should be the train, or yes. The other options are also present, and the purpose is satisfied with choosing transports which fill the most efficient meaning. It was decided that the bus service was best to respond to this request. So the decision of the World Authority of the Gypurian Fordal Forum and Gipu, strengthens the decision concluded by the US offer Board of Investigation. The examination of the three institutions leads us to the same point, to the common decision. It must be about something. However, the Eukot's offers special services when they're on special occasions, for travellers to have a wide opportunity: The real games, the Eibar football team games, concerts, festivals, special shows, unusual events, etc. The most important thing is to keep the passenger's request, and those demands are filled with trains or buses, both of them. If there is transport, and those who are expert in transports guarantee this, as in other matters, we must rely on the data and their experiences. And we're based on it, too, this time. In the year 2015, in the year of his departure, Eukot's performed special services more than 134 days. He built up Saturdays' day and night travel. On special occasions, he'd given special services. The offer board at Eukot's and Eukot's is getting better and better service every day. The purpose of the government and the Transport Department is to accomplish an effective policy. When the services are necessary, and they are placed in the most effective manner, as well as special services. But requests must be examined before the decision is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u163	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Passing the crews that didn't run the line, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Michelena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lehendakari, hold on to guztioi. At this point, which we are now discussing, we are dealing with the Socialist Group's motion, which makes a very specific request to the Basque Government. He is asked to extend the special night service gau-trena, which already have at least five sections of the Euskotren network, to the section between San Sebastián and Zumaia, section Urola Kosta-Bajo Deba-Donostia. On the occasion of the debate on the question which gave rise to this motion, on 8 April, the Counsellor, Mrs Oregi, and Mr Elola argued their positions. Mrs Oregi is not here today, but the Judge has replaced her with wonder. We have heard the same arguments made by Mrs Oregi. Today the rest of the groups have to stand on this issue. For our part, we will only refer briefly to some aspects that we think are sufficient to take a position. We are located on the line of Euskotren Bilbao-Hendaya, and it draws attention to a circumstance that we want to highlight. What's going on in this line? That as far as the special night service gau-trena is concerned, there are three distinct sections. The first stage, which has gau-train, begins in Bilbao and ends in Deba. The second section, between Zumaia and Lasarte (Zumaia is the next station to Deba), and between Zumaia and Lasarte there is no night service. And this one reappears in the third stage, which goes from Lasarte to Hendaya. Why? The Gipuzcoan populations that would benefit from the weekend night service if Euskotren met the request of this motion (Zumaia, Zarautz, Orio and Usurbil) total 45,000 inhabitants. On the other hand, the Gipuzcoan municipalities of Eibar, Elgoibar, Mendaro and Deba, located on the first stretch, which goes to Bilbao, which have the night service, add up to 46,000 inhabitants, more or less. Why this difference in the gau-train service for similar population groups located on the same Euskotren line? Finally, we want to make it clear that in traffic and other economic data relating only to the Urola Kosta-Donostia section, we have not yet been given any comparative data with others, for example Bilbao-Bermeo, or between Durango and Deba, I do not know. This does not mean that Deba and Eibar should be taken away from the service, especially Eibar. The data given by Mrs Oregi in her day to disqualify the request made in this motion seems to us insufficient and out of place. We are not talking about economic profitability, but about a public service, which, on the other hand, as mentioned above, Euskotren is already giving in other sections of the Basque railway. We believe that the advice should ask whether there are no services in some sections of the railway because there are no passengers, or there are no passengers because there are no train services. That is more or less what Mr Elola has said before, in a different way and more briefly. There is no doubt that the coastal corridor extending to the west and east of Donostia has an important indigenous population, to which is added another alien, not only in the summer period, which is consolidated year after year, making the tourism sector a significant factor in the economic growth of the Gipuzcoan territory. Facilitating mobility is very necessary for tourism development in general, and public transport is crucial in terms of safety and sustainability. It is therefore important that the institutions meet a need identified by the municipalities of the area. This is also what we want to highlight: that mobility must be understood by the institutions as a public service. In addition, with regard to Corridor Urola Kosta-Bajo Deba and Donostia, Euskotren's special night services should play a key role in meeting a real demand for mobility. This is seen by the municipalities of Zumaia and Zarautz, which have spoken unanimously of the political groups, including the PNV, in favour of having this service. We therefore believe that the Socialist Group's motion is timely, and we support it. The transactional amendment of the PNV and EH Bildu does not seem appropriate to us, is wrong, by bringing to limbo the satisfaction of a demand found by the municipalities of the area. Thank you and goodbye.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u165	Thank you, Mr. Michelena. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Elola, the turn of the answers.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u166	First of all, I would like to thank Mr Michelena for his statement, because we have agreed on almost everything, which means that perhaps we are the two, the two groups, who understand the area best. Perhaps it is also because I have been a councillor in the area and you too, and we are precisely those who, apart from the rest who have knowledge or information, know the exact reality of the area. You said that the councillor did not come today, but the judge replaced her very well. Indeed, it has replaced it so well that it has even given a lot more data than the counselor. He has given more data, which, by the way, we will contrast, because we have these requests made, and we will see if they match when we see the record, if they match. And we will ask again for more information, because, coinciding with Mr. Michelena, you have made an intervention above all and mainly spoke... You've spoken of patience. You've explained to us what patience is, but basically, you've gone to economics. You said it wasn't profitable. Yeah, yeah, we'll read it on the charts, exactly. I like it just as you like it. You said: It's not economically profitable. That was your last word. To the lady of the mountains. Madam Ottagon mentioned and said that you have spoken to some of the consultants or citizens, and that the people doubt whether this transport or the night-train is needed or not. I'll show you here by the local delegates, and this is the official document, which is unanimously adopted by the Central Council, as Mr. Michelena said, by your party and by PNV, as well as by PNV. What does that mean? In your own countries, you are making a policy in order not to reply to the people, and then come here to this Chamber, which is your decision, and do the opposite? I agree there must be consultations, but the delegates of the people are councilmen and mayors. And these, two years ago, requested two years ago, and this request has not yet been made answer from this legislature, whether it has not been received or not. Baita ere, bueno zuen erdibidekoa irakuriko dut éta esaten du: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to study within the shortest possible time, and in a coordinated manner with the Gipuzkoa Transport Authority...". I'm sorry, I'm confused, I'm reading the PNL that the Socialist Party presented, but they're the same. Three years later, they present the same thing: doing a study. There is a difference: in their amendment they say they analyze in the shortest possible time, and in the PNL presented by Jesús Zaballos says to be studied. Man, analyze and study I understand that in this case they can be synonyms, and if not, they can explain it to me. Entonces salió tu PNL, salió con el voto del PNV y la abstención de EH, pero hoy no sé qué. Not long ago, Mrs. Juez, when you addressed the meeting, when we were talking about Y, if I'm not mistaken, you said: "What do you want to go to the oxen and the carts? "I don't know. And now you're on the train theme, and they're with you, on the train theme, with a clean transport that's tolerable, you're on the road now, on the gasoline road, and so on. Is that your environmental respect? I think you've taken a lot of steps, and what you've done, you've been passing through the wagon to the bus and the buses... As Mr. Michelena knows, we know the area well and we do the bus service, but it's not the right thing to do, and what we want is what everybody else has, no, I've already mentioned what everyone else has, we don't want any more. And if the benefits and cost are economic, the benefits are social. I mentioned the other day, economicly, our environment, the power of the coast, both host and trade, so that the citizens may have a chance. And, Madam Otta Mount, do not be afraid of the rule, lest they should go from Debati to Donots. The same choice, and we think that we're both popular or attractive, and that we'll get them from Donostia as far as Deba. And if, as has been said before, Donostia becomes a knot, because they have no opportunity of going to the coast, if we open a door to the Donostian from Hendaia, from Tolstai, from Oarso, and from the people to Debba. Wealth is that, and if it gets economically ripened, if you put it on the scales, Mrs. Eva, I think I'm right.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u167	Mr. Ella...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u168	Yeah, I'm done. If you can give me some of the first time right now... And now, I'm going to take the words of the First Investigator, I'll do mine, and I'll ask you to make a reflection, and accept our motion. In the old days, I'm lucky to find out if I have the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ella. EHGG rep. Madam Mount, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u170	Thank you. Mr. Ella, I had no intention of taking the word, only to make an explanation, and I intended to make it. Yes, we've made some contrasts, and we've made a date with a mayor who's been a councilman today... You've just mentioned the rule case. Yes, it's been admitted two years since, two years ago, we've been served for improvements. I didn't say so, and from a start I'm saying that, we're not against that proposal you made, not even less. We believe that if service is to be given, we must give it up. The point is we're asking for a serious test. The other day, according to these facts, the chief physician had given them, he said that there was an examination, and that it is not justified in giving them this service. Let's go take a serious test. We don't think so, and I said I don't think that's serious. I mean, seriously, we don't think there's a lot of concepts that we should take into account. This is why we are not opposed to your proposal, it is true, we are not opposed to your proposal, and we would have abdication if there were no choice. The point is, if we go on abstaining from it, and if yours comes out, the examination, the necessary examination, will not go out, and we have to do so with the full priority. And if that's where he gets it, and if that's the citizen's demand, we'd take a serious examination, and then we'd start our service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u171	Thank you, My Lady Mount. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Juez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u172	Thank you. Or I didn't say it right or you misunderstood me. I admit I've talked about economic rental. It's true that the public transportation doesn't guarantee that, but you'll agree that I've talked about social rentals as well. Then that's what we give priority. And I'd ask you, if you often use them as a test, as an argument, the work done by experts and public workers, the reports they report, and so on, why this time you don't take any notice of the investigations of the Eukot's offer. It is true, and we ask that these examinations must be renewed before the decision is made. I think we're all on the same road, but things have to take a step. If there is no need, why should I put this service? Then you'll allow me to guarantee social rentality. And thanks to Madam Olivet, because I think we both understand, that our groups understand, that we must make an examination before the decision is made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u173	Thank you, Mrs. Juez. Finally, the Euskal Potula Group representative. Mr. Michelena... He mustn't speak. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the original text of Mr. Elola Azpeitia's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 25; counters, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u174	Not accepted. Next, we vote for the middle-term correction of EH and Eubertarian patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the partisans of 48; the contrary, 15. White, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-04-21.u175	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Next, I will examine the institutional expression on the re-establishment of diplomatic relations between the United States and the Republic of Cuba. "The Parliament is glad that diplomatic relations between the United States of America and the Republic of Cuba have been restored, and which have been completed by President Barack Obama to visit the island. So that he is glad of the political dialogue between Cuba and the Union of Europe and the partnership of the Union. "The Basque Parliament believes that these developments in international relations should have as a corollary the lifting of the embargo on the Republic of Cuba by the United States Congress, as stated in the latest resolution 69/5 of this year of the United Nations General Assembly, entitled 'Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed by the United States of America against Cuba', which concluded with 191 countries in favour of the resolution and two against, without any abstention. "The legislature thinks this is a firm expression of the people and governments of the whole world, and it is intended to be added to this expression by the historical attractions, brotherhoods, and connexions which connect us to the people of Cuba. "The last political events such as the President of the United States of America, or the combination of the Cuban Union, leave room for hope, in order to obtain a warless world, and to establish the relationship of nations in peace, in brotherhood, in solidarity, in freedom." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was 6 p.m. and seventeen.
