ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Before we proceed to the list of subjects, we will call the members of the Maial Guur in Uanga, Estíbaliz Larurugu, and Begoña Olytalum. Good morning! [[They came in.]] Let's start with the first point on the subject list: "The Institution of the Temporary Committee of Incomprehensibility, concerning the compatibility of candidates for the Esquecadian Senate. There is a debate and a final decision, and there may be a vote for the election of senators." Do any of the members of the board want to speak or contradict the judgment? No. We'll simply vote for the Institutions of the Temporary Committee. Everybody put the card right in it, please. The light has to be light. Then we'll vote. We can vote. Doesn't it work? It'll be a test. Take out your card and put it back in. [[Berber]] All of you just re-enter the card. We'll vote again and see if we can do it right this time, especially the next ones. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u1	So unanimously the judgment has been accepted. Next, each group of legislatures, from the smallest to the greatest, will take five minutes. Anybody wanna be a part of this shift? No. According to the 4/1981 Law of Senators named Euskazadi, the vote will be made by tickets, and in the tickets the name of one candidate will be written. The spokesman will nominate his candidate for each congressman. The most successful candidates will be elected, if they succeed in obtaining a quarter of the votes of the congressmen who have at least the right to vote. If the first vote is not to be named a senatorial post, the second vote will be made, and the most voted candidates will be elected. If a draw is drawn, the majority of the seats in the legislature will be selected as proposed by groups, and if the party proposers have the same number of seats, the political party, or the candidate proposed by political parties, in the last elections of the Basque legislature, will be elected. At this moment, the spokesman, if you please, from the smallest to the greatest, you will tell me the names. Mr. Sémper? He's not on your side. Mr. Pastor, the candidate?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u2	Antonio Julián Rodríguez.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u3	Podemos, Lander, whose name?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u4	Luis Alejos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u5	From the recruiting? [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u6	What about Euzian patriots?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u7	On our side, Jokin Bilaritz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u8	Okay. Those are Mr. Rodríguez, Mr. Alejos, Mr. Ignaturi and Mr. Bilaritz. Before that, the first secretary at the desk will get a number and then contact the congressman. Number, please. Number 20. [[Pause]] The first secretary at the table has contacted the parliamentary members of Damme to vote with Mr. Bachelorcha. After the vote, the result was this: The votes given by him, 74; the supporters of Mr. Rodríguez Esquerdo, 9; Ignatius, in favour of Mr. García, 19; 27;
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u9	So we have to make another vote for a third senator. The two first, Jokin Bilat and Jon Ignatua, have had enough votes because they needed 19 votes. But it takes a third. He must have 19 votes, and since he doesn't have them, we'll go back to the vote. Number?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u10	47th The first secretary at the table has contacted the members of the Parliament to vote with Mrs. Oregi Bastarca. After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of Mr. Rodríguez Esquerdo, 37; the supporters of Mr. Alejos Esccarpe, 11; white, 24; nulum, 2.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u11	The following lords have been elected to be Senators: Mr. Sorron, Ignatía and Mr. Rodríguez, Mr. Esquerdo. According to the 8th article of the law of March 18/1981, the selected senators are to be informed of their nomination and requested to accept it; Please let the Senators come into the drawing room. [[They came in.]] Mr. Jokin Genrron, I am formally informed that the House of Representatives of the Parliament has formally made you a senatorial deputy of Euskadira. Do you consent to nominate a senator? [[Accepted]] Mr. García, I'm formally informed that the House of Public Parliament has formally designated you as the senatorial deputy of Euskadira. Do you consent to be a senator? (accepts) In Rodríguez, Mr. Esquerdo, I am formally informed that Bilcura, the House of Parliament, has formally made you a senatorial deputy of Euskadi. Do you consent to be a senator? (accepts) So, Mr. Bilditz, Mr. Ignatarius, Mr. Rodríguez, is declared to be the senatorial registrar of Euscadi, the 8th article of the Act 4/1981, and 232 of the Parliament. the way articles are worn out. So sit down on your seats. Welcome. Second point on the subject list: "Phum up another proposal made by parlamentary groups, in order to ensure equity and quality in the education system. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the proposed party, representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Ubera, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u12	Mrs. President, Congressmen, Mr. Urkullu, good morning to all. To collect EH, this legislation must be a point of inflammation to the Escal education, for the whole education system, but especially for the public education, or at least it should be. And why do I make three distinctions? One because education is a dynamic and integrated process of life, and because it's not just the task of school, because it demands the implication of everyone. The second is that the model of education, of value, operates on principles, which directly deduces a definite social model. And thirdly, because the public system of education is the remutative of the fundamental right, because it is the equality of choice and cohesion. So we have to get to centrality and we have to place it, at least we're working on it, and we think it's never going to fall out of the diary, even more from the impacts the educational education received in 2010 and 2016. It's time to put an end to the beautiful neoliberal barns that put it down the slope and look into the future. What happened? Instead of placing the student in the centre, there was a tremendous effort and effort to serve the education markets in the last two stages, on the 20th of November, 2012, as promised by a report in Brussels, this report was Rethinking Education. What did LOMCE and Heziber do? Well, following that report, it was an example of that. And thus we have settled two or more high-speed education, raised cheap work, and placed it in the direction of privilege from education, according to the social, economic, and cultural position of each, so as to have such education: more money, more education, less money, less education. And therefore Equity is totally broken, and the trench between the most and least of them is greater and greater. And that is what is now happening in our society: the more social, the more education. That's Rethinking Education. And according to EH Collect, that's not the way. It's not the way to serve the market, it's not the way for years that this town has families and institutions, it's a lot of effort, it's going to ruin the education they've built. But, of course, if this is the plan of this government and the government of the Ukullus, you're on the right track, but that's not our way. In the bosom of the Madrid Government, paying the bill of reductions on the highway and of the centralization. We want education that won't leave no one behind, and we need it, not society, people, people. Innovation, it's going to be based on research. The critics, who will develop so many talents to face life, the eloquent, the open world, and the knowledge of our society and of our people, the knowledge, the knowledge, the knowledge, the knowledge, the culture, will be enriched. In the end, the creative and happy student. Education cannot be answered by the past, and in the latter two legislations our education system has been answered by the past. Education is an instrument that ought to precede the future, and above all in conjunction with the legislative and operators, Mrs. Uriarte, and that is what has not occurred during the last legislation. Let us hope that this legislation is of another kind's legislation. Not only is education an individual and collective right, but the capital of a society is the greatest, the most important, the most important, the most important, of the cohesion, and is the most important item we have to redistribute the wealth. It's our future, so it's up to us. It's an education engine and compass. An education like that, a society like that. And so when this legislation began, in November, we placed two proposals on the table. One, to design and mark an unseasonable terrierry without any restriction of education, to establish a property, and that is the question and proposition of the day. And when this has been agreed, that is to say, after the discovery of what has been lost, to begin the building of columns, which are agreed among all, arguing, and sharing. And the second proposal we put on the table was to cancel the new Hezie, which is LOMMIC and eescal LOMCE. Meanwhile, what happened? All that has happened in the meantime is that the results of the PISA report have been tremendously explosions, and that the report and the reports of which Savee the Childs and ISEI-IVEEI had not been obtained during the last year's year's study, and which we have not managed with so many accounts of our work and table in four years, nor have the agents who are working every day at school. And here at the Board of Education we saw how much warning and daily reality were. At least it was useful to place education in the centrality of the agenda, and to hope that this is not councture, and not to fall into the vortex of the current rapid consumption policy, because this really requires serious attention, and requires a profound reflection and a model to make a very different policy. And in the same way, this explosion of the PISA has been of great use to open his eyes, some of them, like a pyre, to stop the image of the oasy of the eascal which has been feeding. We're not the best, but we're not going to make a drama with this, because we also know how these evaluation tools apply, we have to consider what kind of sample they take, and there we have to take a deep examination, because even from the surface there are many opposite data. And we're not going to be the PISA evaluation apparatus, but we're here for many years, thanks to the effort and labor of the operators of education' community for many years, and that's why we've kept our quality. I said: We shall not be the PISA who will defend it, because it is a standard of valuation designed by OCDE, to the needs of the market. For example, where are the evaluation of the lessons on the student's integration? But it is to be considered that we cannot look the other way, just as we must consider the reports of the Savee of the Child, or ISEI-IVEI. But most of all, we must consider what the agents of education, the students, families, teachers, all of them tell us. This can't be aovni, I don't know where it's isolated. We have to get down on the ground and that's all that counts. And think deeply, but not seriously, and not at the same time with the media. We must study in pedagogical discussions, and we cannot make use of this report, or I don't know what reports, instruments, and disputes they are interested in. For instance, there are some who are already using it to counter the eucalyptus, and we have seen several editorials in this line, just as the pattern of divers is shown in different reports, and the example of the results is much better. And therefore to resist, is the guarantee of the equality of equity and choice. Well, what's the purpose of our proposal today? Well, it's the goal to close a stage. To end the reductions in 2010 and 2016, as in the earlier stages, to return to the state of 2009, because I want to remember that we are now investing 221 million dollars less than we do in 2009. But we know that the increase of investment does not directly mean that quality is improved, that it is very important how this investment is distributed, how it is directed, what politics, how efficient measures it becomes. But there's no doubt that investment has influence too. In other words, we must be effective, we must direct optimism, but not rationalization. And that's why we plan, when we increase the investment as the first step, to schools that are the most weakest, that is to say, the weakest students, who go to school with more difficulty, and inject in it, on the project of education, on the planet of teachers, on the understatements... , well, it's the effective measures. And at the same time, what we plan is to make a diagnosis. Let's make a diagnosis, let's share it, school, country, time, and radio, but we've been open to change the deadlines, and we're going to change them too. Today, important scientists are teachers, substructures, students with special education funds, high-level education projects, resources, IKTs, evaluation diagnosis, different projects, dining rooms... And that's what we plan. And why did we plan it? Well, we were planning because we were coming from a stage where the restrictions were continuous. And their influence is correct. We know it's not all investments, but we also know that no investment or quality can be guaranteed. And we were seeing that the situation was becoming more alarming, and the educational organization expressed it to us, I don't know what reports. And I also think that we are many and many of our parents here, or that we have children in our family, and we see them in the everyday time or when the substitutes are sent to school, or how the mortars are reduced, or how the understructions are found in the college, or in what state the teachers are in, when they carry their education projects forward. Or else, just to see at the beginning of our studies what happened to the scholarships and transports. In the end, it's becoming an education, an element for record, a job to justify, a job to do, and it's not really to go to student needs. And what are we seeing? Well, the public investment that goes to education is one of the lesser in the 28 European Union, 842 million dollars less than the average in Europe. We're seeing that we're investing less than 221 million dollars in education. Student ratios have gone up. We're showing that the Board of Education has saved 3600 jobs, and when the number of students has gone up, right now, when they're giving a Rélebo generative when they're giving us a record, we should think about it too. We're seeing what's going on with replacements. The motion of the map, located at 30%, how can the Chinese Chinese project go on with such a mobileity? There's no stability in schools. The help for students with special wants has been reduced. Educational language projects have reduced the resources of development. Formization. The formation has been reduced. We've talked a lot about you and I about children's husbands, see what happened. Bakk, transports, infrastructure. "But it is not a matter of finding guilty ones; it is a matter of taking care. And we have to take all our responsibility. And we're ready to get wet, take responsibility and do what we have to do there. And this means that every student and all of them, in what neighborhood he lives in, no matter what country he is from, what country he is from, what kind of social or economic grade he has, must all be assured of the same degree of education. It's over, the oasis of eupscal education is over, and it's time for us to make a division of diagnosis, to turn away from each other, to argue, to identify how weak we are, where we want to go, and to move forward. But some things are essential, and it is essential that the reductions should be pushed aside and the closing of the time of reductions. Because the oasis is over, and it is time to content ourselves with what we have done, and above all to look forward to, in order to become an advanced society. And that's what we plan. Let us hope that we have reflected more on it since yesterday, and that we are able to all of us to go and build an education system in this legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing to the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastetor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u14	Thank you, President. The Socialists recognize the opportunity of this debate, although we sincerely believe that EH Bildu is wrong to measure the quality of the education system in euros, said from respect. We recognize the opportunity because, as we have been repeating every time we have ascended to this rostrum, or to other rostrums, the future of Euskadi is played out in the classrooms, and the public guarantee of that education is the guarantee of its quality for all. That is why we have endeavoured, in the talks with the PNV, to make education a central aspect of that agreement, and, contrary to what was hoped for in some discussions by those who did not know the content of the talks, this matter indeed occupies several pages of that pact. And here there was already a shared space, and we are glad to see that that concern is also, it seems, among the rest of the political groups in this House. But not because the PISA report was published a week ago, but because what we have come to agree as the axis of action of this legislature coincides with what the rest of the groups think we should work on. And I thank Mrs Ubera for the tone with which she has made her speech, because she tells me that there is at least a willingness to try an agreement and a great educational pact. What we do not share is that effort to measure quality in euros, and we are surprised that, in this and in other matters, a party like yours, which calls itself left-wing, is going to be able to quantify with euros simply, by budgetary quality and not by other parameters. Because of course economic resources are very important, but it is also how they are managed, efficiency... In fact, the PISA report itself, to which we are going to refer repeatedly in this rostrum, which is being made here today as a bold weapon rather than an element of analysis, which is how it should be used to correct deficiencies, also indicates, for example, that the Community of Castile and León, with a much lower expenditure than the Basque Autonomous Community, has a much higher level of effectiveness than ours. And prioritising investment in education, with the aspiration to reach 5% of GDP in the near future, is our aspiration too, like yours, but let us not forget that our education system enjoys privileged funding compared to other autonomous communities, and it has not been so subject to the cuts that the system has suffered in the rest of autonomy. That is, something happens in our educational system when, being the best funded in all of Spain, it has produced such mediocre results in the recent study. That is why we are surprised that only economic resources are required. We know that education must not be understood as an expenditure, but as an investment in the future, which cannot be renounced in order to generate economic development and social welfare. And we also know that investing in education is doing so in social cohesion and competitiveness. It is true that Basque education, moreover, has its own unique characteristics, with a very complex system in its composition: it has a bilingual character, it has a different sociolinguistic situation of the two official languages, the balance between educational networks, its powerful and continuous attention to the educational needs of the entire student from an inclusive approach, and also its territorial diversity, are all signs of identity of the Basque educational framework. But it is also true that perhaps these differentiating facts of the Basque educational structure have caused us to have at some point over-abstracted ourselves, or to have been able to fall into self-congratulation, moving away from the key lines of the debate that is gaining strength at the global level. So I think it's good that we do a serious analysis. The Socialists have been warning for quite some time about some deficits in our education system – because other evaluation reports, not the PISA report, already pointed out it – we insisted on an electoral campaign as well, and we have managed that this issue, the need for a new educational pact, with the central axis in the public school as a guarantee of equality but seeking equity, should be an essential issue for the necessary transformation that our country requires. And now it is true that it is not the time to find excuses for what the PISA report says or stops saying. We must try to find solutions and, above all, try to make necessity a virtue. PISA 2015 should become an opportunity for the rigorous and shared reflection of the centers, and not to fall into either catastrophism or advantageous balances. It should help us to advance the didactics of science, mathematics, reading comprehension, because with equity and a vocation of excellence, and without falling into the false idea that quality and equity are incompatible, it is how we will find the right path. We want to promote a model of comprehensive education suited to Basque citizenship in this twenty-first century, combining scientific culture and humanity, complementing arts and sport, and equipping students with a critical and transformative vision of reality. And this model, as expressed in the amendment signed jointly with the Basque Nationalist group, will be based on a new education law that will have to be, mandatory – if we really want it to be a serious educational project for the country and a law that lasts – the result of a consensual educational pact. And the Socialists recognize the opportunity, as I have said, but I think there are other times to put forward certain debates, better than this. What I do want to say is that, if there is political will on the part of all the parliamentary groups – I want to believe in theirs, and I hope that in that of the other groups too – it is the time and the opportunity for the first great agreement of this legislature that is now beginning to lay the foundations of this great educational pact, in which political forces and also the trade and social agents, and the centres themselves, which have much to say, will have to take part, and we will be able to break that kind of curse that exists in the rest of Spain, that each government and each party in turn is setting up its own educational model, and we have never been able to make a shared reflection on a part of our social welfare system, which is education, which is fundamental and truncal in order to achieve a healthy, balanced society and certainly with prospects for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Madame Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u16	Thank you, ma'am. The President, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, good morning. We begin to discuss the law of law as the teams are presenting, about the reduction of restrictions in the education system to equity and quality. Education has always been a fundamental service to the Jestric Party, along with health or social services. Therefore, during the last four years, they have proved clearly, and the President Urkullu himself has a strong engagement with the police and public services, as a guarantee of cohesion and the quality of life. It's a basic education that helps people control, critics, and autonomists. Education is the chief factor of individual progress, as well as of the whole community. It's a basic element of education to promote the difference of choice. It is essential to build a democratic and solid co-operation. To educate English citizens. Education, as I say, is indispensable and strategic, in order to accumulate a well-prepared human capital and to produce economic progress and well-being. If it wants to be a competitive society, it must be a system of education which leads to perfection. So we think education is a challenging town, and in that sense it's a priority in our daily practice, just like the Eukko. It is only to be seen that President Urkullu installed himself among the four popular columns of education and education, which ought to be cultivated and arranged. To achieve all these goals, it is essential to have a good education system. But in educational system, is funding everything? Mr. Legrandin also asked the same question. Is that what we must limit the dispute? but she concentrated on this discussion, which was on restrictions of title. We therefore believe that we should not focus the debate solely and exclusively on the issue of financing. We are not afraid to talk about funding, we are not going to turn our backs on this debate, but, of course, we are clear that it is not the only important and necessary factor to ensure a quality and equitable education system. Because, if we talk about numbers, we can also offer a lot of them, and we understand that very positive for Euskadi. The education budget of 2016 is 2,565 million euros, it is 23% of the total government budget. Per capita education expenditure in Euskadi stood at 1.548 euros in 2014, which is 0.9 more than two years earlier. Current expenditure has increased by 2.4%. EH Bildu said in the explanatory statement of this non-legislative proposal that the average in Europe of public investment in education is 5% of gross domestic product, while in Euskadi it is 3.8. But it should also take into account, for example, that total expenditure per pupil in Euskadi is above the EU average and in countries such as France, but below others such as Germany and Finland. In relation to the comparison between autonomous communities, the State School Council produces a statistics to measure public expenditure per non-university student according to the ownership of the centre, which with data from 2012 places Euskadi in the first position in both indicators, followed by Navarra. In relation to the budgets of the education area, the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture in the 2013-2015 study period, it should be borne in mind that the change of legislature generates departmental reorganization and therefore complicates the monitoring of the evaluation of some sections. However, this department, together with the Health department, retains a preference among the rest according to the allocated percentage of the budget: 27.6%, discounting the payment of the debt. In addition, in 2014 the area of education increased by 5.22% its initial budget, and by 4.71% its expenditure compared to 2013. And all this, indeed, as Mr Pastor mentioned in his speech, has not contributed to the PISA results in Euskadi being better than in other communities. We may, therefore, treat of finitude, taking it for good or evil, compare the numbers we compare and the numbers we compare, and with whom we compare. And if we start with comparisons, considering the data I have given, Euscatical education doesn't look bad, even though it's a few countries above it. But one of us is not bad at all. As I said at the beginning of my interference, when we talk about education, other matters also are indispensable, and I shall speak of them. Evaluations, for example. When the evaluations and their results are examined, we should not lose sight of what they are and what they measure. External evaluations, together with internal evaluations, are a key tool for the continuous improvement of the centres. We all know that. They enable the permanent review of our objectives and programs from a self-critical vision, and avoid falling into self-complacement. The OECD tests provide a comparative picture of the various educational systems. Having said that, it is not appropriate to reduce the quality of an education system to the qualification of the results obtained in the OECD external tests. The value of an educational system cannot be supported and based solely on the qualification of three areas or disciplines that are related only to knowledge. It would be misleading and a fraud for the student and for society to be content with obtaining good qualifications in this regard alone. Our educational system makes this bet because it considers that the educational process should serve the student in general to acquire the skills, skills and tools necessary to be an autonomous person in academic, social, work and personal life. The bet our educational system makes is more risky, because it makes a bet for the future, a bet focused on the person and his development. A long-term bet endorsed by UNESCO in its latest report on the need to rethink education, as well as endorsed by different education theorists. Therefore, our Basque educational system must complete the design of its own evaluation system, introducing the transversal competences to the already evaluated disciplinary competences. This comprehensive and comprehensive assessment will be the best procedure for detecting and advancing the quality of our education system. During the last decade, the education system in Euskadi has made very significant progress, in the progressive implementation of the culture of evaluation in general, and in the evaluation of pupils by skills in particular. The reports and results of the diagnostic evaluations submitted to the centres have become a crucial element of debate and internal reflection in virtually all the centres, and have enabled the critical review of their teaching-learning processes from the perspective of continuous improvement. The centres have used the results reports sent by ISEI-IVEI to complete the huge internal information they have, with external references that allow them to compare well with other centers similar to theirs from the socio-economic or socio-cultural point of view, linguistic model or ownership, or with themselves throughout various evaluations. As a result of this comprehensive evaluation process, each centre has developed and regularly updated its improvement plan – we have talked about this also long and extended during the past legislature – enriched with the contribution of both berritzeguneak and inspection, and the necessary improvement actions have been regularly adopted. Even before we know the results mentioned here, there's been a number of applicants starting through the plug of fun that's been mentioned over and over in this parliament. And these deserve special mention. The programmes and measures implemented by the Basque Government for improvement are not of immediate effect: following the analysis of the evaluation report, from the 2013 diagnostic evaluation, the Department of Education adopted a series of programmes starting from the 2014-2015 course, the effect of which we know is not immediate so as to have effect in May 2015, which is when the student carried out the PISA test. I would like to mention three of the most significant programmes, which are the programme for the detection and early care of development and learning difficulties; the Hamaika Esku programme, and also the Euskadi Educational System Improvement Plan 2016-2020. Our correction has two points. One about the contract we'd like to get in the education world, and another about its latest report of the Basque School Council, and another about the recommendations of financing. I'm not gonna read it to you, because you all have it in your hands. With regard to the recommendations made by the Basque Council, we see them well enough and consider them a useful line of work. From an integral point of view of education, we agree that it must be opposed to the quality of the euscal educational system, to justice, socialization, to the education of values, to the respect of multiplicity, to the freedom of thought and belief, and to the defence of human rights and multiplicity. We have committed an education and a compromise in the presence of the euscal society. We want to cultivate the eucalyptic law of education, as Mr. Pastor has said, in order to form and strengthen the stability and quality of euscal education, in order to go forward in the following years to excellence. And how, in this pact, one must speak of the regulators of financeing the entire education system...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u17	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u18	...the technology reorganization CONFIGitz, one second, please make it easy for us to develop, together with material changes and theoretical methods of previewing. Education is a guarantee of social cohesion and equal opportunities. This is a priority for the Basque Government and for EAJ-PNV. We have managed to ensure a level of universal quality, but it is clear that our next challenge is to continue to advance in excellence. We have made concrete commitments, an educational pact for a new Basque education law, a project that will require broad consensus within the educational community and also within this Parliament. And from the will to win the agreements, I'd like the Social Groups...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u19	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u20	... and if you would vote for our team's immediate correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing to groups that don't run, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u22	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. The truth is that at the beginning of these speeches everything is very similar, because we all agree that we are dealing with a fundamental issue, one of the most important issues that we are going to be dealing with in this legislature. And it's fundamental for two reasons. First, because we are talking about the future of Basque society. And, second, for a very important issue: the lehendakari when he defended his candidacy spoke of a concept that is very important, that is social capital, that unites us all as a society to pull forward together; then, if we allow education to be, by its results, a factor that demoralizes society, that demoralizes, we will be losing social capital. Of course, we are now at a time when society has to assume that its results in education are not good, and that is very demoralizing. A hopeful society, a society with strength and tools to move forward, is a society that will go further. I shall now look at the non-legislative proposal submitted by the Bildu group. I will tell you what other speakers have said: the problem we have is not a problem of spending; in our opinion, it is a problem of modeling. Of course we have to spend, and we all know, for example, that in Euskadi many centers were built in the eighties, they are centers that already have..., they are going to be fifty years soon, they need very strong investments; areas of our municipalities have been developed in which new centers have to be established... Expenditure is very important, but the problem we have here is not expenditure, it is an educational model, and that is what we have to address. We have proof of that. For example, the Madrid Community, which spends almost half as much as we do on education, is being codified with the most advanced OECD countries: Japan, Estonia, South Korea, Finland. And they spend almost half as much as we do. That is, we are going to vote no to its proposal not of law for that reason, because we believe that it is not a problem of spending (without, of course, taking away importance to what is investment), but that it is a problem of an educational model. And you have not questioned the model, you have only questioned spending, or at least you have not questioned it as we do question it. So let us now go to the amendment tabled jointly by the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. Let's see, I'm afraid we don't agree with them either, for a reason. Madam Counsellor, I am going to be harsh, and I am very sorry, because I am sure that you are full of goodwill, but, of course, there is a saying that the road to hell is paved with goodwill. So, I don't deny your goodwill, but the problem is that when Euskadi has been evaluated the model has been evaluated, and the model has been led by you. Yes, the model has been evaluated, because other models, with much less investment, have achieved results. With much less investment. Our model, with much more investment, has achieved worse results, has entered a decline, but also a decline that is more bloody because the communities around us have not only maintained themselves: they have progressed. They've made progress. I mean, even stability would mean decadence if everyone around us goes up. Spain has improved its results. So, in our opinion, what has failed here is the model. And you lead that model, you've been the one who designed it. Yeah. For example, look, let's talk about the Heziberri program, the Basque curriculum. It is something that we find incredible: all the countries, the communities in our environment, work seven or eight skills, and you came here and, as we are most of all, happened, of the seven or eight skills that work in all the areas around us, to twelve. Sweet. So, of course, that... And you know... And I would like to remind the Basque Socialists – which I have read my debates – what you were saying about this increase in competences in previous debates; Mrs Celaá, what she was saying. Now I don't know if you've changed your mind, but I'm putting you through Heziberri. You have a model, pardon, where things happen as absurd as children who carry out all the education studying in Basque, because one of their parents is not Basque, they have to do the PISA exam in Spanish. That's absurd! It's absurd. Let's see, well, the OECD doesn't know if it will say so, but here in the Basque Country the children studying in Basque have to be examined in Basque, because there may be terms, such as "zilbor-heastea" for example, that they have studied, and that if they find "umbilical cord" in a Spanish exam they don't know what it is. Let's move on. We have a program with... We have a system with much more shortcomings. We've got 152 schools that have no way of getting their addresses. We have some training plans that have to be cancelled, because they do not get 40% minimum assistance... But, look, now is not the time to give examples. Now is not the time to give examples, because we can discuss examples, and what we have to discuss is the model. You can call it a model replacement or a comprehensive model reform, but, in our view, what you cannot do is bring us here and propose a pact for empty, empty education. They'll have to bring us content! What do they propose in this pact for education? Imagine, we have the impression that, rather than a pact for education, you are asking for two things: or extending the blame to all ("No, it was not my fault, because, as we all agreed..."), or rather what you are asking us for is a truce. It's a truce. But do you know the problem? That we have an emergency, because in a few days, within just... It doesn't come to what, two weeks away, we're going to be saying, "Next year it's PISA's evaluation." Because PISA's evaluation is in 2018, and we're fifteen days away from 2017. Then we'll be saying. Then, look, I used to say the Count of Romanes that, if those who stop a matter, create a commission. We have to have those commissions, but the commissions and the papers are to slow down and do things right. But it's just that in a few days we'll be saying that next year we have PISA's evaluation again, and you... Euskadi has suspended this assessment of PISA, and that means that the model has suspended, and that means that the person who has led that model, which is you, has suspended. You've suspended. And it has also dragged the educational community to levels of demoralization... I'm telling you, I could give you a thousand examples, and examples taken all of them, by the way, from the Euskadi School Council report, eh! I am not going to look for them elsewhere: they are from the report that you submit and which you endorse. So, we understand that what we need, to sum up, is a change of model or an integral reform of this model. And we also believe that the person who has led this model so far... we doubt his ability to lead that change. Because we were told by the representative of the PNV – I loved it – "We have a challenge ahead, keep on advancing in excellence." What's going on? The challenge ahead is to break the decline phase. That's the challenge we're facing, getting the curve to turn up, not a challenge to continue advancing in excellence. What excellence? I'm going to say fast... You have said many things and it is very good that they are done, but let's see, for example, you have named the Hamaika Esku and all those things we do to improve. It seems very good to me, but, for example, you have obviated things – and I'm sorry, because it is an example – you have obviated things as elementary as the detection of high capacity in students. It turns out that in countries... statistically, for our population, it would be up to us to have between 5,000 and 6,000 high-capacity students. Do you know how many have detected this model, this system? Three hundred. Just to get a brush. But, I repeat, this is not the time for examples. Those will be later. It is time to think deeply about an important reform of the model, in a change, and, feeling much, advise, think that if the person who has led us in the decline is able to lead us out of it. That that's our challenge, getting out of the decline.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. Together-Poedemus, Mrs. Wide, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u24	Mrs. Tejeria, Mr. Urkullu, counselors, members of the legislature, all good days. These last few months, what references should be in euscal politics. We have talked a great deal about it, and above all the phrase that everyone speaks is that we have to look north. In fact, the result of the PISA report shows that a free education should be clear in education. A public education system, which is necessary and free, is given to public centres. A public system that establishes that education is compulsory and free of charge and must be provided by public institutions. A country where neither books nor school materials are paid for, and all children receive a hot meal a day at school also free of charge. If the child lives more than five kilometres, transport can be arranged and transport paid. Herri bat non hezkuntza garapenaren giltzarri kontsideratzen den, eta horretarako budgetaren % 11 edo 12 bideratzen da, hau da, barne produktu giorren % 8. A country in which education is regarded as the key to development and for which it is allocated between 11 and 12 % of the budget, i.e. 8 % of gross domestic product. The distribution of public funds is performed in effective mode. That is to say, between the centres the revenues are divided in a fair manner. For all schools have a common basic income, but the quantity at the end will be according to the necessities of each center. And thus they conclude that the schools which are more deficient in comparison with others, because equality is an indispensable value. Curriculum is a mancoun, but they're organized by the centers. Every school, together with its teachers, designes and organizes their scheme, and in order to obtain the ends they have established, each makes his own planning. Education is a custom, and children with special wants from their initial courses are assisted by the difficulties they can avoid as long as they go on for years, and the percentages of leaving school decrease. The rhythm of each child's learning is respected and separated from standardized tests and actions. Education is being customized. From the first courses it intervenes to support students with special needs, thus preventing their difficulties from increasing over the years and minimizing the percentages of school failure. The pace of learning of each child is respected, and standardized testing and activities are avoided. Teachers don't spend so many hours of class. Of course, they use their time of work, or their schedule, to perform other actions, which offer more hours of work to prepare ditactic units, to investigate, to organize jobs, or to work with other teachers in a collaboratorly manner. This country, which I would like to do, produces successful results for years at the results of the PlISA report, and their alpha rate is 100 percent. This town is Finland. Let's take Finland as a reference and begin to increase education investment, which is, at least, recommended by Timeesco, that is, 6%. The greatest weight of muskets in the Euscal Autonomy Erria has been felt by teachers, I say, for hitherto I have been a teacher. They've been paid for years without getting half of 2012 extras back. Substitutions are not known until the fifth day, because there are sometimes no substitutes, or because the lists have not been opened, at least in some specialities. However, we have many teachers waiting for their first opportunity. Consider that in Finland it is a great honor to be a teacher. So, compared to us, it's a bit of a difference. The law of the public Basque schools is necessary, yes, a law, but of course public. Basque public school. Let's take a look at Finland's case. The consumer has a double funding and can't be treated the same way when the rate of increase in many public centres is at four years' delay. The fact that we're divided into two classes is sold to us as an idea of ingredients, but there really is a segregation, and in certain schools it even becomes a marginity. Medical education had a prestige in the state. However, these scientific evidence requires a profound reflection. The investment level of each school forces us to inquire into the efficiency of this education expense. The result of the evaluation diagnosis remains, or tells us that they have fallen into competition on the eucalyptic. The international evaluations, the result of the PRICA report, have caused surprise and anxiety. These results indicate that he has entered into a kind of torpor and conformism, and that it is essential to get out of it. To which we have equity, participation, and innovation. It seeks to rebirth in the sphere of education, not in the spirals of society, but in the practice of strong politics, in order to serve the compensation and justice of education. By the intervention of the division we would like to speak to those who are leading in the educational world: teachers, students, family. It is essential to build extensive consents on a great basis of cooperation within the community. This must be reflection on the methodlogies, giving priority to interactive and interactive learning. At this moment at the critical stop of education, we must overthrow our system of education and our pedagogical innovation and technology and encourage the use of the internet, and the eloquence within a new aspect of education. The measures of each area will be gathered round these inclusive, participation, and innovation: educational system, school, teachers, students and educational lessons. If we give these steps, we'll make it look like a successful education system in Finland. For all these reasons, the parliamentary groups of Podemos together will protect the proposal as well as the EH Union.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. Passing by the turn of the answers, Mrs. Ubera, representative of the EH Group, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u26	First of all, thank you for their support, and it's a pity that the PISA has been influenced by the report, but here some groups have woken up from their autonopulation, and the subject has been established in education, centrality. I just want to remind you that we proposed here for four years to open a school for a shared diagnosis. But not only among the party, but also with education. I don't know, maybe it's a good time for that, and we put you on the table. If you like, we have all the honesty. And for information, you say that every student here is the society and people we invest most, and that investment cannot be the cause of failure. And we also know that investment is not only the cause of failure, but there is nothing more blind than one who will not see. But I want you to know that every evaluation apparatus, even the PISA, use raw internal product to measure what a people dedicates to education and compare. And the crude internal product is lower than EAE in Spain, and, of course, with Europe, the porcomene. That's part of it. On the other hand, Madame Arriega, it's educational right, it's more than service, it's right. And then this is where the will has been referred to the will, the will to get to the agreements, to agree... Maybe el señor Pastor, pues, no se ha enterado. No sé si el PNV le ha otodo, no le ha otodo... Pero le digo yo, y le aviso para que sepa cuál es nuntra voluntad y en qué predisposición nos encontramos. Mire, I made a suggestion to PNV yesterday of the middle course, to see how far we have been prepared to get to the agreements, that we are really convinced that this legislation must be a point of inflammation. Well, we made a suggestion. Our first point was to go back to the state of 2009 and start from the weakest schools. And the second is to make a division of the Diagnostics. To see that our proposal is not only investment. We're talking Diagnostics. Second, I'll literally read it to you, I've got it on my age, but if you want to, we'll meet and I'll return it to you. I added two more points: "2. Our education system, which will be the basis of education, and especially our educational educational system, is the basis of protection and strengthening the public education system, that the purpose and means should be agreed on the way to the construction of the legislative frame of our education system." Deal, legislator, here. But, of course, the agreement cannot be between parties, the agreement must be with the teachers of education, and not the treaty. For, for example, there may be a Covenant between PNV and PSE. But this is not a matter of parties. And this is not an EH Collect and a PNV thing, Mrs. Arribalga. This is a question of a whole society, leaving partiality and partial interest aside. And the third point. I read to you: "The parliamentary asks you to give him an examination at the service of the euculation system of eucalypation to improve the euphora educational system, and to serve the general interest of the students and eussacal society in six months, and present the consequences at the Board of Education." We were just talking about the agreement, the law, the evacuation, because it's a copy of the LOMCE system we've got today. And from here, you're facing that, and it's just fun that you're shooting in colleges, families and teachers, and families are just trying to keep up with what we're doing. That's part of it. So here's no excuse. No excuses. And this isn't about split interests, parties, it's a popular matter, it's a business of society. And really, if we believe in the agreement, we have to make a diagnosis here, we have to be with educationmakers and we have to talk. And here you repeat that we are restricted to investments, that we are confined to investments, but it's obvious that we're going beyond. But he who desires excuses will always find excuses, but he who does not wish to see more blind. For here we speak of Equity, by Right. And look at another example...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u27	Finishing up, please, Mrs. Ubera...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u28	To conclude, you put eleven hands on the table. Look, you've been hired to guide 11 Hand programmes to a foundation, Empiza por Educar, que, por cyto, professors are working with less than 1,000 euros, and even at this moment these teachers have been expelled or reduced to restrictions. We have about 200 to see at this moment, signas, por comitarian. Another example of how we reduce ourselves to the pursuit of pedagogical pedagogy projects. It's not just money, it's not just money. And in conclusion, we think that parents, teachers, students, families, whole ranks of society, as far as the institutions, are truly serious and as well worth one thing. That it is worth while to reflect seriously on the subject, quietly, and take a turn on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u29	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u30	This was our first proposal, but we're ready to keep working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u31	Thank you. I'll ask all of you to respect time because if you don't, I won't even give a second. I tell you all. Please! Basque Socialists, Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u32	Well, look, Mrs. Ubera, I have not understood much of your intervention in this reply, because you have answered me as if I had said that you have no will to agree, and it has been quite the opposite! I recognized that there was a disposition. Yes, I have said, it is true, and I keep saying, that your original proposal was only thought from the point of view of the budget, of the euros, and it made a rather perverse mix between euros and educational quality, and that equation does not work as you wanted to draw it. It's true that he wanted to correct it later. And I also did not say that we are betting on a political pact exclusively! Moreover, I have repeated three times that education is one of the core elements of any society, and that the pact has to be a political and social pact with all the educational and social sectors, and with the affected actors themselves, even with schools. I think I've repeated it on several occasions! So, I don't know if you were hearing anything else, but I'm staying with the positive side, the willingness to try and reach an agreement. What worries me least is how much support comes from each other's initiative today in Parliament, provided that above all that is, as I have finished my speech, the need and conviction that a great educational pact is needed. Mrs. Bengoechea, a great educational pact. Frankly, I'm sorry to tell you, but it's not the PP's most appropriate party to give lessons on big country agreements or educational pacts, because you've made a rolling roll with the LOMCE issue, and you've charged yourself with the only serious attempt that has been made in this country to make a great educational pact, when Mr. Gabilondo was Minister of Education, at the last minute and at the last minute. Therefore, let us now do this, and let us really do that, among all the parliamentary groups and between the social partners and all the collectives, of course, because that is the way it has a guarantee of future and functioning. And, finally, I would like to say something else, but to Mrs Zabala I just want to say that, honestly – I say it with respect – I think you were talking here a little bit of ears. That is to say, to make a story of what happens in Finland, in the country of wonders and such, it is very easy: you take the encyclopedia or any educational manual, and you know, and we make a fantastic educational tourism route. But then I would like to have heard, and I have not heard, what his proposals are, those of Podemos, on the subject of education and on the specific subject that affects us, which is the improvement of our educational system, in this particular particular. Because, by responding again to Mrs Bengoechea, the PISA report does not assess the Basque educational model, or any other model. It evaluates educational, linguistic, academic, scientific, reading compression skills...; not the concrete educational model. We can, of course, also discuss the Basque educational model. I also said that probably that kind of self-satisfaction with which we have repeatedly observed our educational reality, because it has been able to make us fall at certain times in a certain complacency, and that prevents you from having a critical look at what is happening. And if for something it has served and has to serve the PISA report is for us to put on all the batteries, and we start to think that because we are Basque we are by definition no better than anyone else. But fortunately we have more resources in this society than we have others in our environment, and we have to make the most of them and make the most of them, in order to be able to implement now yes, indeed, an educational model in which other countries of Europe can be looked at, as we all do now in Finland, to which Mrs Zabala referred in her speech.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u33	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Eubertarians, Mrs. Arriganaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u34	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Bengoechea, I thought for a moment that instead of an ordinary plenary we were in full control: you asked the councilwoman directly... And let me answer several questions, that the truth is that she has addressed many, but I would like to focus on three of them that I am sure counsel Uriarte will share with me. Firstly, it is not Euskadi who decides in which language PISA examinations are conducted. It is PISA itself that establishes the conditions for being able to evaluate later and make comparisons. It is therefore not true that it is us, that is, the Basque Government, who establishes it. You have also suspended the counselor and her model, and Heziberri says she has been evaluated by PISA and has been suspended. It's not like that. The model evaluated by PISA has not been Heziberri. Heziberri is simply from 2015, which is the same year that PISA tests are carried out. Therefore, the model that has been evaluated is certainly not Heziberri, it is the previous one. You have also talked about the competency-based model, you have also talked about Unesco, several of the speakers have also mentioned Unesco..., and it is that Unesco itself endorses that competence-based model, although it may also go a wrong way. And finally, I would also like to say that with regard to the education pact, the pact for a new law, what it has, what it has no content..., is that this is exactly what we propose: an open book where all, the educational community, all the agents, can contribute. And not like LOMCE, that the content was imposed, but well, and there was no room for manoeuvre. I therefore believe that, on behalf of the Counsellor, at least these three answers were deserved, Mrs Bengoechea. The improvements, the self-critic, even the self-inflict... We're not based on self-inflict, we're not established, Mrs. Uberia. We rely on the principle of reality. And if so, we must make a treaty, and make it known to ourselves: There's room for improvement, but we always said that every education system has room for improvement, even ours. And to know that's how it is, you don't need evaluation. There is always room for improvement in different areas: As for the pedagogical, as far as the organization is concerned... And we do self-critics, and we have no trouble for that. But let us all do it, and look into every field or region. There's a lot of things to do beyond funding. There's a lot to do, but I don't think it's gonna be quiet and they'll come in here to confirm whether the results were appropriate or not. It's not just a matter of responsibility to the performance of the present fun, but we'll have to look back at it, because we'll have to identify and evaluate the decisions or choices that those 15-year-old kids have given in a particular moment. We insist on the need to further develop improvement plans according to the strategic lines set out in the educational pedagogical model, promoting programs to improve reading compression and mathematical and scientific competence. In this way, the aim is to reduce the number of pupils at the lowest levels of PISA performance and to increase the percentage of pupils at the highest levels, as expressly reflected in the agreement recently signed in the context of the configuration of the new Government. As I said in the first round, education is one of the great national challenges for the Basque and the Jalt Party. The education, preparation, and ability of the persons who compose a society, in the whole assembly of the election of the President, are, as has been said, essential to the development of all these persons. The euscal education system has made a fruitful and fruitful road, but it has a long journey ahead of it. We still have many important challenges: To continue to improve the quality of education, to make steps to excellence in equity, to spread out your career and apply it to the university, to improve the connection between training and company, to encourage talent, to retain, and to recover, to favour science, technology, and innovation. And in all this, Mrs. Uber said that EH collect is ready to participate and contribute, and that it was made for the present also in the correctional proposition, but this would be a little to be a trap, because what you set up in your proposal yesterday is the first part of your correction, and we made a correction of the Rollart Socialist and Euzist Abertarian correction. So we couldn't have this first point. Eta bazenekiten, sheath, horrendous zeal.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u35	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u36	Yeah. I'll finish it right now. Later on, I'd like to say that it's a matter of neglect of education, and I'm glad you're on the side of it. That's why we get out of the center of political education and call all the members of the legislature and all the social agencies to cooperate. Let's talk out of respect, and as far as we're concerned, we're going to work out a piece of education, get it settled and get it started. There's your power, Mrs. Ubera, a new education legislation that contributes to all the agencies. And also the excellent opportunity of doing all those contributions which Mrs. Yes, I'd like to end up just saying that when Mrs. Ubera talks about eleven hands, that's not how it is. Public officials work in the eleven Hand program, officials do it as a stable service to guarantee that routine in schools. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Mrs. Bengochea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u38	We go back here to the replicas and there are some you can't stop saying. Let's see, if we're talking about education and we don't want to talk about birds and flowers and we want to talk about the current moment, the urgency and the urgency, I'm forced to address the counselor! For a reason. You say, "No, but the model has not been evaluated here." I don't know, but I'm going to give you a clear example: there are three hospitals, with three different ways of functioning and more or less with the same type of patients, and in one there are many more deaths and in another more healings, and you're going to tell me that when you're going to do a comparative analysis you're going to say "No, no, here we're just evaluating the health of the patients"? No, no, I'm sorry. You will be evaluating the type of hospital and what leadership you have! That is, to evaluate students is to evaluate the model. And evaluating the model is evaluating the leaders of that model. That's clear to me. Then you talk about LOMCE. I know that you have spent a great deal of time in the last parliamentary term opposing the LOMCE. Perfect. But you know what? It turns out that the autonomy of Spain that improves the most is precisely those that have applied the LOMCE and those that have been governed by the People's Party. That's obvious. That's obvious. Galicia has improved... Now Navarra doesn't (poor Navarra, let's see what happens to him; I'm really worried). Well, let's see. So, with what I do want to finish... I wish I'd ended up heading for the lehendakari. Because, okay, it's not a lehendakari control session, but on this subject I'm not going to talk about birds and flowers either. I want to tell you something very clear (yes, it is transmitted to you, please), I want to tell you something very clear: there is no group in this House more eager to enter into a pact for education. We have a problem, and it is that we have a previous pact, and it is a previous pact with the citizens. And that pact we can't betray. I mean, all the covenants we sign below can't betray that first one. So, being the group that most desires a pact for education, before giving a blank check, since you propose... Because you're not sociocultural animators! You propose. They don't go to schools like sociocultural animators ("Hala, to see what you do and we put it..."). No, you propose. So, before we give a blank check, we need to know directions, paths. Because, I already say – please let the lehendakari know, no one but us wants an educational pact, but, by not betraying what we already have with the citizens, we cannot sign blank cheques or give truce. And we continue to doubt – and I'm very sorry – whether the team and leadership that led us to this situation is the team and leadership that can get us out of it. We're worried because time here is very easy, but it's eight years with the same leadership that they're supposed to catch a creature at the age of ten and reach the age of eighteen. I mean, his most intense formative life is going to have passed in those eight years. So, the times we manage (the tempo of the presentation, the tempo of not knowing what...) for a child is half of his life, it can be (for, eight and eight, sixteen, a sixteen-year-old child), and in the most important stages. We then ratify that no one wants a pact like us, but also that that pact is not a blank cheque. We want to know where you're going, what you want to do and how you're going to achieve it. Okay? And, above all – I am very sorry – we question the leadership capacity of the team that has led us to this decline today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Bengochea. That's nice of you. In conclusion, Miss Podemos, the Excellent One, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u40	First of all, Mr. Pastor, our gaze is in Finland, yes. Why? In Finland, mostly, because the teacher is a very important figure and is really full of shit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u41	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u42	You say that you believe in the guarantee of the public, that it is fundamental, but in this agreement your public wager is not seen, it is not spoken. On the other hand, the Eucharin reductions have been mainly suffered by teachers: Their salary is frozen and they haven't even collected half of the 2012 extras. A few years ago the system was much more centralized, but they found that the results were better if more power were given to the autonomy of the schools, an ancient demand of the Basque educational institutions. The centres must have autonomy in order to be able to manage depending on the reality of each area. The other important trait is that the attention which is given to each child of the Finland system, especially those which are more remote from early childhood, and this is very important to see the evolution of that child and that child not to be followed. Trying to tackle academic problems in the early years of schooling is the best solution to avoid major problems. It's a matter of prevention. It is the most elementary and most successful tool that will attract us. Hala eta guztiz ere, for the classes of these guys who are later in Finland what is used is the figure of a personal tutor, a personal tutor who provides support classes and according to different levels of need. Figure hori ere gure hezkuntza-systeman ondo egongo litzateke, bath horretarako, noski, budgetak behar ditugu. And, as I told you, Mr. Pastor, it is also important to quantify in budgets. It's fundamental. Euska Autonomy in Erria would be important to lower the ratios. To do this would be a much better, more just, and more personal attention. It's important to treat these students, these students with special needs, and that's why we have to go to the public centers. Following the Finnish example, each school has its autonomy to organize its curriculum. It is one of the proposals that we have in our programme: the autonomy of schools, the autonomy of schools, which is part of a system in which education is conceived as something free and equal for all. In Finland, as I said, children have access to similar educational facilities and do not pay for the material. Schools provide books, computers and even food. Educational planning is agreed between teachers and students. This is what we should call an educational pact including families. We need education to be an issue on which there is political consensus about its importance, which implies stability in the education system that allows it to develop completely and can provide and mature within the same parameters as it spoke of: equity, participation and equality. On the other hand, I would tell EAJ a solid education. We agree, too. But that's what you have to bet to strengthen the public euscal schools. And what I wanted to say to Mrs. Bengoechea. You say the problem is the model. Of course, the model. But what are you talking about, privatizing education? Is that the model you propose? There should also be a deep reflection on that model. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Wide. End of discussion, we'll go to the vote next. First, we vote for the original text of the EHG asG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 71; supporters 27; rivals 44; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u44	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, we vote for the Eucabertians and the middle-term amendments signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 71; supporters, 37; counters 34; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u45	So, it's okay with the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of Podemos, as a parlamentary group, in order to be transparency in the administration of Basques, and to prevent corruption and the "turning" appearance. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that has made the proposal is Podemos, the representative of Becerra has the intention of presenting and defending the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Tejeria. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning to all. I debut before this Parliament, representing the Elkarrekin Podemos coalition and my Equo party...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u47	Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u48	... to defend a necessary non-legislative proposal concerning the conduct of persons holding high office in the Basque administrations in the field of transparency and prevention of corruption and the phenomenon of so-called revolving doors. My presence in this House, like that of the rest of the members of Elkarrekin, is not the result of chance. Ten years ago it would have been unthinkable to break into a coalition like ours on the Basque political scene, and even less so with the force that the ballot boxes gave us last September 25th. What has happened in these ten years is that Basque society has changed its perception of politics and of those who exercise it. And it's done worse, of course. Somehow, a part of this society has stopped believing in its traditional political class. We will be able to discuss whether this loss of confidence is just or unjustified, whether it is timely or widespread, whether it is due to the harmful influence of the systemic corruption environment that exists in state policy, or whether it has been able to help the episodes of clientelism and traffic in influences that have also occurred in Euskadi. But believe me, an important part of Basque society no longer puts its hands on fire by its political representatives or by the institutions where they govern. And it may seem strange to you, but the people of Elkarrekin are also concerned about the alienation of citizens from democracy and institutions, as much as we are concerned about the possibility of public positions in these institutions that may sometimes act driven by particular interests and not driven by the defence of the general interest. And this concern is also on the street. It is true that in the field of transparency in 2014 Euskadi led, together with Catalonia and Castile and León, the ranking of the autonomous communities of the State developed by the organization Transparency International. But it is no less true that, as is the case in many other areas, comparing us with Spain is not a merit, but a consolation. Because in the international ranking of perception of corruption Spain is very, but very far from the most developed and prosperous European countries, as on the other hand it is logical and predictable. Because transparency is also a concept as abstract as it is indefinite, which cannot be reduced to the mere publicity of administrative documents, as has been discussed so far. We have to go beyond that. Therefore, working in favour of transparency from the institutions implies, for political consistency, doing so also against the conflicts of interest of the people occupying the high offices and, ultimately, against its most tearing consequence, that shift between politics and private enterprise that has been called revolving doors. The debate on rotating doors is not so much whether they should exist or not, but in which situations they are admissible, given the ethical and ethical consequences and above all the legal consequences of the decisions taken by the senior officials involved. To clarify this issue requires, one, establishing a strict system of incompatibilities; two, controlling the activities of lobbyists and lobbyists; three, monitoring potential conflicts of interest; four, making them public; and five, sanctioning abnormal situations. Since 2014 Euskadi already has the Law Regulating the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges, which points out in the sense that I have just pointed out but that it is only applicable to the senior officials of the Basque General Administration. For its part, and by virtue of our particular legal framework, the three outlaw administrations also have their own records of activities and property and property rights, focusing in this case on regulating the obligations of their own high offices. And finally, we have local administrations, which are generally subject to the basic state legislation of local government, without prejudice to the codes of conduct that each municipality might adopt in its case. However, our group believes that this dispersal of records of activities and interests, as well as the existence of different bodies responsible for their custody, is a situation that in no case facilitates the proper control of the activities of the persons occupying those high offices. Therefore, today and here we propose that a Basque transparency agency be set up, as set out in the draft law on transparency, citizen participation and good governance of the Basque public sector presented in the last legislature. We firmly believe that an autonomous agency that is fully independent of the rest of the powers is the necessary cornerstone to give credibility to the fragmented Basque regulatory landscape in this area. With due legal support, we must be able to confer on that agency the competence to coordinate the different registers existing in the country, to assign it the power to monitor the content of the declarations made in that register, to reside in it the sanctioning regime, and also to establish legal instruments allowing it to collect from the rest of the administrations the information it needs for the exercise of its functions. Taking this step is for Euskadi the difference between approving scraped or advancing towards excellence. Moreover, for Elkarrekin Podemos it is of particular interest, so it implies new progress in the field of transparency in public management, our proposal to set up a public register that will make visible the work of the lobbies in Basque policy (because there are also them), as a result of the work being carried out at European level. So far, the commitments that we have been able to reach in recent days with the majority of the political groups in this Parliament and which have recently been handed over to them are coming. From the day of our premiere, in Elkarrekin We can make clear our commitment to building a better country, a more democratic country, a more just and more sustainable country. We believe that reaching a pact on transparency is one more step in this direction, and we invite the whole House to support it as such. However, in our group we are not content with this progress, so that throughout the entire legislature we will continue to work to improve the legal framework in force in this area, which is still far from being as exemplary as we would like. For example, last November 26, Decree 156/2016, which develops the Conflicts of Interest Act of 2014, came into force. This decree comes almost three years late and applies only in the autonomous sphere, but in any case it is welcome to do so. This decree assigns to the Personnel Registration Service of the Civil Service Directorate of the Basque Government the functions of custody and control of the declarations submitted by the senior officials. From Elkarrekin, however, we consider it necessary that the ruling on the compatibility or otherwise of the private activities of a high office should be based in an independent body of the executive branch that led to the appointment of that high office. And that entity should be the Basque Transparency Agency. Because in terms of transparency, to a greater extent even than in any other administrative area, credibility is everything. Moreover, the Act of 2014 provides that, with regard to conflicts of interest of persons holding public office, obligations and precautions shall be extended from the two years preceding the appointment until the two years following the termination. However, the recently adopted decree mentions the possibility that a high office which after its termination has been resolved the incompatibility for the development of an activity in the private sphere may receive financial compensation for this reason for a maximum of two years. As you can imagine, it is not understandable to us, if not unacceptable, that with public money the law allows for a kind of covert cessation to circumvent this legal prohibition, so that at the end of that period the revolving door can be opened in pairs. We hope and trust that this Government will soon be able to amend this particular issue in order to move towards a consistent and, above all, credible legal framework. In any case, from Elkarrekin we are not in favour of arbitrarily limiting the career path of any high-ranking person. On the contrary, we prefer to establish clearly in advance the limits that this person will have to respect from his or her passage through public life, not only in the two years following the cessation, but beyond, so that he or she can guide his or her work without risking violating the legal framework. That is why we would also like the law to make it mandatory for those persons to continue to report on their professional occupations for the next 10 years following the abandonment of their position. Finally, we regret the opportunity lost by the recently adopted Local Institutions Act in Euskadi to expressly extend the requirements of transparency to local institutions in this country. This ethical and legal requirement at the municipal level is of particular importance in a territory such as Euskadi, throughout which there are dozens of public bodies and societies that, despite managing public resources, are governed by the rules of private law, which hinders the necessary control of their activity and allows practices that are not conducive to transparency and citizen control. Hence the importance of monitoring conduct and effectively controlling the conflicts of interest of their senior officials. At the heart of this whole debate is the fact that those in high office have, in addition to a clear legal responsibility, an undeniable political and public responsibility, which has so far, many times, however, been ignored. To assume this responsibility implies overcoming the belief that compliance with the law is exempt from any other obligation. When a public official engages in morally reprehensible conduct resulting from the exercise of his or her activity, political and legal consequences must be derived, because ultimately the very dignity of the institution is directly linked to the full, exemplary, honest and responsible performance of his or her duties by the high office that represents it. Corruption, clientelism, amigoism and revolving doors are behaviours incompatible with the foundations of democracy, and, I would say more, are indirectly those who violate the basic human rights of people, insofar as they undermine the general interest and hinder the economic development of the country. That is why, in conclusion, I encourage from here all the political forces present in this House to support this non-transactional law proposal. We need to have the most robust, credible and advanced rules in this area. It is time to put the approved one behind us and move towards excellence. Thank you very much. Mila esker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u49	Thank you, Mr. Becerra. Passing over to the teams that are running the corrections, Euskal Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u50	Good morning, everyone. I also intervene for the first time. My group is not the first time in this House, is it? I am speaking to discuss a proposal for a law which you are making as a group which has entered the House but which is not the first time that it has been dealt with in this parliamentary arc, and which makes reference, as you have rightly said, to the adoption of measures of transparency and the prevention of corruption. Well, the Socialist Group has stated, every time we have dealt with this issue, that it agrees with the approach and the adoption of measures to ensure these objectives. And not only with words, but also with facts, as my group recalled from this rostrum just a year ago – I usually have a background check, and I know that some of you have already heard it, but, as others have come new, I think it is convenient to repeat it – because the Socialists were the first and the promoters of Irekia, of Open Data, of the profile of the contractor, of the regulation of electronic administration... We were and are convinced of the need for transparency in the management of the public, because we truly believe in the need for radical transparency as a basic principle of functioning for the future. Because we citizens demand more from public administrations. And I do not share what you have said that transparency is an indefinite concept. No, no, Transparency is not only information, it is also participation, and logically it is also control of the management of public offices. Basque society demands a modern, adequate, clear, rigorous, transparent administration, which will bet on the evaluation of public policies, and this is one of the points of consensus in the agreement signed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, and in which, I am sure, I am convinced, we agree with all the groups in this House. We also believe that transparency in public management should be accompanied, of course, by better regulation of the exercise of policy, which, in addition to opening the door to information and participation, ensures the effectiveness and dedication to the public functions of public officials, avoiding any activity or interest that might compromise their impartiality in the exercise of their functions. For this reason, the Socialists were the first to adopt a political commitment, the first ethical code of this country, in the absence of a specific legal body. That legal vacuum, it is true, was subsequently filled by this Parliament with the consensus approval by all political forces of Law 1/2014, which regulates the code of conduct and conflicts of interest of public officials. Because the Socialists are convinced that we need to have more controls, but without this being a barrier to the exercise of politics on the part of any citizen. And you've said to regulate when someone, a professional, decides to enter politics, what they stick to. And I believe that we should not limit the trajectory of a professional who comes and commits himself to the management of the public from his experience and from his profession. You have to be able to get in and out in decent conditions. It is a path that, as you see, does not begin today, but which has a path to go. And a path that, I believe, we have reflected in the amendment that we have negotiated between the proposing group, the Nationalist Group and the Socialist Group, and to which I too hope the rest of the groups in this House will join. It is a path in which I see three needs fundamentally. A need to provide us with a law of transparency, citizen participation and good governance of the public sector, which rules in its articulation – and we will have time to discuss at that time – how this transparency agency is to be, that it is to function, logically, in an autonomous and independent way, and that we will find there, and that it regulates a register of lobbies. We also believe that one of the needs that we need to be clear about is to enhance the work of monitoring the fulfilment of the obligations of public offices of the Basque Public Administration by the Personnel Registry Service, which is set out in Law 1/2014 and which is set out in the second point of our transactional amendment. And we also believe in the need for the Basque Government to continue to take other measures to promote transparency. This is a proposal. You tell me, "We'll keep taking steps." Welcome to the path on which we are taking steps or on which we have already met others for a long time. Welcome. Take our side, and we will all certainly make progress in transparency and in improving democracy. We therefore believe that the Basque Government must continue to adopt, beyond the mandate of this Parliament, measures to promote transparency as an effective instrument for preventing and sanctioning behaviour linked to the misuse of public resources. I am convinced that this melody you are listening to does not dissuade any of the parliamentarians who are sitting here today, and that we just have to be able to put a consensus letter to it among all of us. A job that you have encouraged from this rostrum and in which I too join in that spirit. It is the road we have to be on, and it is the road on which the citizens ask us to continue. And, as I am very respectful of the presidency's instructions, I have five minutes left.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u52	Good morning, head of the table. The President is not here in this case, but... the chief of departments, members of the legislature, friends, good morning. First, and then, we have lived such moments as may be congratulated, as those who have been just about this other proposition, have been ready to interview and bargain the Elders of all the groups. That's a good sign, I'd say perfect. Let's see if this is the beginning of legislation that we're looking forward to. That's what I'm We have to make that ability to negotiate and get to harmony between us to become a priority. If we've shown this legal proposition that we're able to negotiate, about other things, why not? Are we capable of making agreements between different parties? That's our challenge. Now let's get to the point. In its 2015 anti-corruption report, a body outside Basque institutions such as Transparency International Spain reflected that our institutions, the Basque institutions as a whole, stand out for their transparency, especially if we compare them, as Mr Becerra has said, with other entities of the rest of the autonomous communities of the State. Therefore, from my group, and in the part that touches us like Euzko Abertzaleak, we can proudly affirm that we share the reflection of what was Secretary General of the UN, Kofi Annan, when he said that a transparent, responsible, reliable and effective government is the basis of sustainable development and not the result of it. And that is why we had the hope that our society could at this time have a framework of reference that would respond to one of the main demands of an advanced, consolidated democratic society, that is, the transparency of the activities of the public authorities and access to the information that works in their power. As an unequivocal manifestation of Lehendakari Urkullu's commitment to transparency, the Basque Government sent the bill on transparency, citizen participation and good governance to this Basque Parliament in November 2015. The purpose of this bill was to complete the regulatory framework imposed by the basic state legislation with more ambitious and demanding measures, not only with regard to transparency, but also with regard to the area of good administration and open government. I am not going to tell you the history of this law, which is very long, but equally clear and meaningful. Because of the law of transparency, we've had so much and so much of it in the past law. On the 6th of October, 2014, we arrived at this Chamber of Investigations, which was connected with the Basque Public Administration. The extensive agreements above mentioned and praised were not then possible, and since that time it was divided into two laws. One of them transparency billes. And it was a great effort to enter all the corrections introduced by parlamentarian teams on this new project. Among those who were introduced, 65% appeared in the new text, one way or the other, and the corrections that were left outside were not possible, either by legal reason or by consistency, because if a correction was chosen, the others were either rejected or repeated, de facto. However, I would like to say that the willingness of the Government and this parliamentary group to seek and find in this area the understanding and dialogue has been and is complete and absolute. But all this will remain for historians, because, unfortunately, we have to talk about this bill in the past. Despite the fact that at the time all parliamentary groups had shown their willingness to give maximum impetus to the processing of this bill, I am afraid that the facts did not show that predisposition. Like I said, it's for historians. We do not have a law which, without doubt, was a reflection of progress and modernity not only in the public sector itself of the Autonomous Community, but which came to adjust its applicability to the rest of the institutional levels that make up the whole of the Basque public sector, in order to complete the scheme of good governance in the other Basque administrations, including, Mr Becerra, both the outlaws and the local ones. It seems that the squandering of this non-law proposition and the law that will see the light has its own name, and it is Gardena, the Basque Transparency Agency. Well, well, I have to say that, if then the spirit of pactism that seems to enlighten us here today had been imposed, this body would also be a reality today. Our group has always shown the importance of having an organ like Gardena. Why? Because we must be able to offer Basque citizens a body of their own in the Autonomous Community to resolve complaints that may arise against administrative decisions that deny them access to that public information. The consequences, or the cost of the non-existence of Gardena, are to Euzko Abertzaleak insurmountable, since, if this body does not exist, the claims of Basque citizenship would be settled either in the contentious jurisdiction, or by the Council of Transparency and Good State Government, provided that an agreement was signed with the General Administration of the State, so our Autonomous Community would have to cover the expenses arising from this hypothetical assumption of competence. The transactional amendment, as has been said here (as Mrs Castelo has said and as Mr Becerra has said), also refers to a law adopted by practically all of this Parliament on 26 July 2014, which regulates the Code of Conduct and Conflicts of Interest of Public Charges, which seeks to avoid any activity or interest that could compromise the independence and impartiality of public offices and therefore regulates a system of incompatibility and guarantees for impartiality in the exercise of public functions. That's what you're asking me to do. for the improper use of public resources is prejudicial to the whole society, and more to those who have a public care. To encourage a new government for everyone's sake, for everyone's sake. In this regard, there is no doubt that the general interest goes beyond understanding the importance of the transparency of public activity for the achievement of a truly democratic, plural and participatory society. Transparency is not an end in itself, but must serve as a tool for controlling power. This tool is only effective when citizens have at their disposal the tools necessary to know how decisions affecting them are made, how public funds are used, or what is the public and political activity of our institutions and public officials and under what criteria. That is why active advertising and the right of access to public information are shown to be the two basic pillars of transparency, as they oblige the public administration to make available to society the public information available to it, and to ensure that anyone, individually, has the right to obtain such information. As I said earlier in Basque, we need, in years to come, to illuminate among all (all) a new administrative culture based on various aspects related to good governance, approached from the conceptual triangle that make up the evaluation of public policies, transparency and the participation of citizens in public affairs, on the premise that none can function or stand alone without the other two. As the transactional says, it would be extremely positive if all the agents involved were to commit themselves to carrying out such a law as soon as possible. I think the effort is worth it. Undoubtedly, Basque society will thank us, as transparency fosters shared responsibility between the latter and public institutions, while at the same time, from the perspective of the institutions, it fosters effectiveness, promotes efficiency, responsibility and proximity to society, thus helping to assert its legitimacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u53	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u54	Good morning. Good morning, everyone. This is where we discuss spinning doors, corruptions, and transparency. In the past few years, our society has increased its anxiety for these matters, as well as that, because almost every day new cases have appeared and appeared in the newspapers. Whilst society suffers the hardest years of crisis, every year during which the restrictions of public service have increased, there have been the riots of public offices, public offices, or public offices, which are almost daily filled with public funds. In cases that have been suspected of corruption, for instance, Gürtel, Noos, Palma, Arena, the Pretorium, or far closer here, the De Miguel case, the minda, Epsilon CAN, and so on, society, as it is natural, has shown anger. All these cases have produced a general distrust of politics and public institutions, and show that the political corruption is more and more alarming for society. The case of the revolving doors is different; it is not always bad to see that at the moment of selling out of the public sector to private sector some of which have never worked, to end in sectors of factuality, in sectors where political employment has been held up, in which there was no relation, or in sectors that have no relation to their professional life, there was no previous relation to the conduct of a great company, and no professional experience. It's a good thing this has changed lately and that society is being critical. For instance, there's the case of Barrosus for the last time. The phenomenon of revolving doors can be sometimes more subtle, we would say, but it does not stop being suspicious, while scandalous, the passage of some, too many public positions to the boards of directors or to the governing bodies of large companies, such as the landing of government presidents (such as González and Aznar) and various ministers (such as Solves, Salgado, Acebes or Rat) to Telefónica, Gas Natural, Endesa, Iberdrola, Bankia... Or, in our nearest environment, the passage from Josu Jon Imaz to Repsol, from Atutxa to Iberdrola or from Ardanza to Euskaltel. Or the use more than blatantly of the network of public enterprises to place the likes, and examples of these there are many; two: former mayor of Leioa in Metro Bilbao, or ex-counsel of Ortuella in Garbiker. And there's a lot more, like I said. Therefore, we cannot be surprised that society is more than tired of all these manipulations, chanchullos and compadres, of the looting to which some have systematically submitted to the public arks, and then come to tell us without rumbling any, to ask the citizen, who must tighten his belt because we have all lived above our possibilities. This being so, different governments have for the last few years made several efforts to strengthen their transparency, to take measures against the spinning doors, and, after all, to restore to society the good image of public institutions, and to improve their conduct. Many times, and it must be said, the measures taken have not passed from the empty and empty marketing, and, of course, that has been detected by society. Oh, thank God. Translucency, the direct and effective management of public honesty and resources, is to-day more necessary than ever. If we really want the respect of society, the cooperation of society, and the participation of society, we must be clear and severe in this respect. We have to protect everything we have and act efficiently. To rob, rob, or rob, or profit by particular interests, or by particular corporations, we ought to expose them to the end of being compromised later on. And I should say more, that by the measures we ought to take, we ought to be more and more difficult to make them impossible. We must destroy these Urbucans from our institutions, yes or yes. This is a direct relation to all of us, both to the measures we have to take about our transparency, and especially to have our own law. He couldn't do it. In the law which has passed, the Government has twice said, though it has introduced this law, yet we have not yet established this law in our order. For the first time he did not present it as a natural law, but within a general law of public administration with a very limited application. For the second time he introduced, as a law, certain proposals made by so many groups the previous day, but it was impossible to discuss the late chamberlain of the law in peace. It is, therefore, essential in this legislation that governments present as soon as possible the law of transparency, participation, and good government, open to the new contributions of the legislature, and including the exact contributions of the several groups during the preceding legislation. We have clearly the characteristics of this law of transparency. The other part of the fact that the active information is as wide as possible, that all the open information is intelligible and accessible, that within the Garden agency the representation of society is as extensive as possible, beyond public administration, with unions, college, and so forth. And besides transparency, it is essential to make sure that the evaluation of public policies is complete by the efficiency of the goals which are really sought, in order to ensure that the ends which the public management must follow are complete. And in this office, all the resources which public institutions have at hand must be put to action. That's why it's essential to have the real control of the duties of public offices. Real, light. Cannot remain on an empty tramit, must be an active control. Corruption, yes, corruption, for once to be rid of our institutions. Translucency, control against corruption and spinning doors, is not a fashion, it is not a couple of documents and expressions to make good use of in public. We must believe, the conviction is necessary, and consequently a sincere engagement. To be clear that politics is to be made for the benefit of society, we have an excellent foundation for it. In this you will find the Basque People gathered, and that's where the Basque Society will find us. We have an obligation to Basque society, the obligation to put transparency, good governance and the demand for the honesty of public office as the highest level of public action. In the face of corruption, there is no room for half inks. In the face of the plundering of the public arks, there is no room for lukewarmness. Given the interested use of the position given by a public office, there is no place for party justifications. Therefore, today more than ever it is necessary to speak clearly of corruption, of revolving doors, of how some have squandered and squandered public money as if it had no end. It's not time for euphemisms, it's not time for circumloquies. If we talk about transparency, let's be transparent, and let's call things by their name. This is our request, let us proceed by the way of transparency, by the way of participation, by calling every thing by its own name, the hand by which they enter our private pockets.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representing the Basque Potulag, Mr. Sémper, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u56	Thank you, Mr. President. The chief physician, all the members of the euscripts, all the good noontides. Mr Erkoreka, we could start this debate by saying "We said yesterday", because, despite certain Adamist speeches, in this House, and it will happen to us throughout this parliamentary term – it is not bad, but it should be remembered – we will repeat many debates and probably many arguments throughout this parliamentary term. And it is true that this debate took place in the last legislature, with some intensity even. It was preceded by intense work also in committee and in parliamentary presentation, and there were also important debates in this House. I want to say this because transparency is not a debate that is coming to this House now, but, as it is logical and reasonable, these parliamentarians (not only the new ones, but those we also repeat) have already discussed this, and we also have a fairly well-formed position and approach. Wrong or not, shared or not, but a trained criterion, because I believe in some matters, and in this especially, we all share the will to recover something that is probably an intangible, but that is a reality, and that is that there is a citizen's disaffection towards the exercise of politics, towards some political parties probably in a more accused way, but in general towards the institutions and towards the exercise of politics as such. As a result of this disaffection too, certain expressions that I believe to be unfair fall into a bottomless sack, this from the rotating doors, politicians who take advantage of the exercise of politics or when they go out to benefit, and let's put ten years, and, well, we raise the bet to twenty, so that they have to keep reporting... And in the end what we are doing is to provoke and feed also a contempt for the very exercise of politics. Even by provoking people with skills, with training, people who have to contribute a lot and who could contribute a lot to the exercise of politics itself, they refuse to enter politics. Because in the end, to the hardships or difficulties that the exercise of politics itself has, and all those who are here know it (the policy is a sacrificial exercise, if it is done well and is done with will; it is a sacrificial exercise and it must be remembered, Mr Becerra, it must be remembered), we could also abound in this disaffection. And I think that we are also in this House to bring some serenity to this kind of debate. And it's true that transparency is one of the... Well, reading things, someone came to say that the perfect storm of transparency has occurred in recent years. As a result of many circumstances, international crises, crises caused by bad use or bad attitudes, or absolutely reprehensible attitudes on the part of public officials, elected officials, political parties, this storm of transparency has put at the forefront of the political debate what we do to eliminate this failure and to regain confidence, at least the confidence or credibility of the institutions on the part of the citizens. And this is a first-class debate to which we are all subject and in which we all participate, of course. And I remind you, Mr Becerra, and I insist that we have also discussed this in this Parliament. It is no less true that we also have basic legislation, it is true, with a Congress of Deputies, and it is no less true that in the last legislature we adopted a law of transparency and good governance, and it should be remembered that it was a legislative milestone in Spain and that it has introduced useful tools to advance this recovery of that confidence. That it is not enough just with the legislation – and I think we all share this – but that it is also necessary for the competition and it is necessary for the efforts of each and every one of us who dedicate ourselves to politics, so that with our example, with our attitude, with our work, we also add, to what the black laws say about white, that recovery of prestige in the exercise of politics. And this is the framework in which we moved the past legislature, which caused the Basque Government, Mr Latxaga, to introduce a bill in this House which, as you well know, had to be withdrawn by the government. And, of course, when someone is unable to agree, then responsibilities are often shared. I will not say that the sole responsibility for that bill not to go ahead outside the Government, because it would be unfair. What is true is that in this priority of responsibilities it is the Basque Government that has the greatest responsibility for the legislative impulse, for the adoption of laws, for providing us with a legislative framework. And he was unable to... I do not want to do revisionism, but, as you have mentioned, I think it is fair to remember that the Basque Government was unable to raise enough agreements to develop that law. There was clumsiness, clumsiness in the search for consensus by the Basque Government, and there was clumsiness also in the legislative technique. In no way have several amendments been tabled in full, and we, the People's Party, have tabled more than two hundred and fifty partial amendments. Believing that we had more than enough arguments to put forward an amendment in its entirety, we preferred at the time – and this I recalled in this rostrum – to open a debate to try to have a law, rather than withdraw a law and stay in the legislature without a law of transparency. It could not have been at that time, and we hope that the Basque Government will rectify it. We believe that it is in that wave, in that line better said, because it is more formal, and that in this legislature we will have a law of transparency. We are not worth any transparency law, and we will open up and there will be an important and interesting debate, sure, in the coming months, and I hope it will be a very short few months. Because there's a text, there's wills... Here we have known, we all have a predisposition and a magnificent will to approve this and to put an end to the evils of humanity – let me be ironic. Therefore, processing should be agile. The arguments we all have, we know what we share, and there will be elements of discrepancy, no doubt, and that's healthy, and that won't label some as they don't want transparency. To me, for example, the debate on revolving doors on too many occasions seems very advantageous to me, and in addition to a thick line. I think we need to get it right and do it right. I think that the regulation of lobbies deserves, for example – and this is a very particular opinion – a specific law, a law that regulates interest groups, and I think it would be good if we did so without a priori, responding to a social reality and a political reality that we face. The political parties have the monopoly of public representation, it has been granted to us by the Constitution (this is something that happens also in the countries of our environment), but there is a new social reality, there are organized groups, business, of the third sector, of all kinds, who want to influence the legislator. That influence doesn't have to be bad. It provides us with tools to address the drafting of a law, it provides us with information, it gives us more tools – worth redundancy – to better address the drafting of a law. Interest groups are not a bad thing per se. It is bad when there are a number of practices that, in addition to being unethical, can be irregular and classified as criminal. That is why transparency is also needed. What we propose to you – and I would also like to point out to you – is that we will present a proposal for a law so that there is a specific law on interest groups, which seems to us to be good and useful for us to be... I shall conclude by asking you, in relation to the vote, that we can vote on points. For a simple reason. We would vote in favour of the first point, insisting that "the shortest possible time limit" should become "yet". We would have liked to have put "yet," but, well, we understand that these things happen in the agreements. And we are not going to vote in favour of the other two points, but not because we are radically against them, but rather because we believe, Mr Becerra, that, in order to come to revolution, you have quickly copied the uses that I consider to be more protocol but do little to contribute. This that we urge the Basque Government to enhance the functions of the law... man, it's yours, isn't it? It seems that the Government has to enforce the law and push the requirements of the law, but I understand that you have had to accept this from the old policy for the sake of the agreement. Little revolutionary, but I understand it's more practical than anything else. And the last point is to urge the Basque Government to continue to take measures, that is to say, to continue to do so equally well, because, well, I will not approve it either. We are going to be a little more demanding, we are going to ask that this bill be referred to the House as soon as possible, that is to say already, but, in order to show our willingness to cooperate and agree, we will vote, if you have the right to accept the point vote, we will vote in favour of the first point, and we will abstain in the next two. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u57	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Passing on the answers, the representative of the Podemos, Mr. Becerra, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u58	Well, I am extremely pleased to see first of all that all the groups in the House are in favour of transparency, which everyone says they have done a lot, but they have passed two opportunities to pass that famous law and you have not reached an agreement. With this I understand that all this priority is not such, but in part a mere posture that ends up reversing that a law of transparency is going to have to enter for the third time, without anything up until now has happened. Of course, it is true that corruption is a fundamental issue, transparency is a fundamental issue, pressure groups are a fundamental issue, to the point that we have to take them as seriously as Mrs Pinedo said. And I would ask you: Have you presented any initiative on interest groups and lobbies, any request for such a record to be created? Right now even Mr Semper invites us to make a law in that sense, but Elkarrekin has had to arrive We can make that proposal. [[Berber]] No, it's not dawn tomorrow, but it's true that the good will shown by all the groups here has something to do with it. And I would like to say to Mr Latxaga that indeed the goodwill shown by his group now, by negotiating with us this proposal, must become the third time that the transparency law comes, and this time I hope that in a definitive way, this Parliament will be able to be adopted. And I do want to tell you that the exercise of elegance, not without firmness, that I have made with this proposal should not be taken as a blank check, neither by the PNV nor by the PSE, because of course in Elkarrekin We can be vigilant throughout the legislature, not only so that that famous law of transparency comes and passes, but to control each and every one of the movements that the government is going to make. Because the lack of transparency is true that it does not cause corruption, but propitiates it. And that there is a low-intensity corruption in this country, called clientelism, called amiguism, which I would say is even more harmful than corruption itself, because, although it does not affect the Criminal Code, it does affect the code of ethics and ethics by which citizenship rejects much of the ways of traditional politics. We have been told since the PSE, Mrs Castelo, that it is not really dawning with us, and that the Socialists have been the first to talk about transparency. Well, I don't know if it was you first, if it was Mr. Semper, if it was EH Bildu... The truth is, they're hitting each other for being the first. But the reality is that you have talked about radical transparency, open government, good administration... You are going to be four years old, Mrs Castelo, you and the PNV gentlemen, to show us the degree of radical transparency to which you aspire in each and every initiative that we present here in the opposition. I'll see you there. Mrs. Pindo, we've been trying to get you to agree, but unfortunately it wasn't possible. And we really feel and feel for our team because the struggle against corruption is a fundamental arrangement. You said, in your speech, "that the spinning doorways, the transparency and the corruption are extremely disturbing." And we agree, but it doesn't seem like it's going to be so much for you. It seems as if the agreements to obtain a senator are possible, but, on the contrary, to control the highest offices are of less importance. Think about it. Anyway, I invite you again at the time of the vote to express your attitude towards transparency. And yes, indeed, Mr Semper, we are going to allow the groups to vote for points. We think you have a right to that opportunity. But not because we consider that the last two paragraphs have necessarily been an assignment of our group. I have made a speech that has tried, as I said before, to be elegant but also firm, and we should not confuse the content of this agreement with a free transfer to the Government. It sometimes seems that in their group, every time they hear the words "swivel doors" or "control of public offices", there appears this complex of guilt that makes some of their members wander as a soul in pain by the courts of this country, dragging that conviction that often does not reach them, because they also have a justice sometimes at their feet. But be consistent, Mr. Semper, act as you are acting at the Bizkaia General Councils, where your spokesman, Javier Ruiz, is presenting initiatives against clientelism and friendship...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u59	Go to the end, Mr. Becerra.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u60	... And, therefore, I ask you to support this initiative, out of consistency with what you are doing in other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u61	Thank you. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u62	To be the first time I intervened in the rostrum I didn't have to explain myself well enough, the truth. Because I have no itch or desire to be the first in anything. I mean, it wasn't a matter of a race in which neither the Socialist Party nor the People's Party, nor the Nationalist Party, nor much less Podemos, were first placed in the picture. Neither have I accused you of new arrivals! Man, it is true that the copyright of the registration of lobbies does not have it you, because it is that there is an agency, that is the Group of States against Corruption, that is known as Greek, that resides in the Council of Europe and that has spoken about this issue and that has been referred to the Congress of Deputies, where you... This initiative comes from there, that is, the one you bring me here is the daughter of the one presented in Congress, logically adapted to the uniqueness of the Basque Country. Finally, I had no interest in confronting this issue in any of those aspects, nor do I want a blank cheque, nor do I intend to ask it. I have worked in politics for a long time, I have represented in different areas of politics, and I have never wanted a blank cheque. But I don't want surveillance either. I am one of those who believe that it is better for us to talk, to contrast opinions, and that if it is possible for us to reach agreements that favour citizens, that is what we are here for, right? For this I have decided that from my professional field I come to politics. And I would like to see my re-entry into my professional sphere without any obstacles that would mean me not being able to continue or not being able to continue with my professional practice when I come out of this area, when I decide that my commitment to public management ends. That is why we were doing this mating on the issue of incompatibility laws in public offices and so on. And then it's also true that I find it ugly to be told that, because you're trading with the two parties that we support right now in the Basque Government, you're doing... I do not know what stories Mr Borja Semper has said, but I think it is not wrong to remember that we must push forward those rules from which this Parliament has endowed an executive. I think that's not bad, and that's neither obvious nor left. And much less is being told to "keep adopting." I have not said or prejudged, nor is it prejudged in the initiative, neither that they are good nor that they are bad, nor that they are doing a loa to the Basque Government on any issues. What I am saying is that, beyond the transparency measures that this House can take, which will be in the transparency law, in which I believe we will be able to reach an agreement... I also got a bit of a whiny feeling about Mr Latxaga's speech: "Jo, I've brought him twice!"... Well, bring him a third, that's all right. We will all be able to reach agreement, because I believe that in what is music, and I was saying it at the beginning, we all agree, and we must be able, because in other parliaments (the vizcay did it recently, and he did it also with the consensus of all political forces) we have given ourselves a standard of transparency, and surely the Autonomous Community can also have it. But I do not think that is an obstacle to saying that the Basque Government must continue to push forward any measures that advance in transparency. And that's neither balling nor anything. That is to say, that these are things or issues that we believe are necessary from here, and that this, of course, does not diminish or undermine a compromise amendment. Beyond the fact that the proposer has agreed to vote for points – and I am always one of the practical people, of whom they think it is better to draw something than nothing, fifty is better than zero; well, it is something there – but there are times I think we have to be able, and we will see it also in the next initiative we are going to try, to leave hair on the net to reach a common goal, which in the end does not stop being progress in measures that are being demanded of us in a very firm way by the citizens. A path on which we are already, but on which we surely have to move forward, and welcome are all the new actors who are at this time in the same direction.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Eubertarians, Mr. Lachaga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u64	Good afternoon, again. I must once more be grateful for the tone and sound of this discussion. I think they're very happy. No one seems to want to stay out of this proposal. Yet three or four things have struck me, and to which I must answer, for that is the turn to answer, is it not? The first to Mrs Castelo: I am not complaining, I agree practically with what you have said, with almost everything you have said, I am not complaining, but I do think it is interesting and necessary sometimes to make a little history, and remember a little where we come from. I think it has been very unfair at times with the fate of this bill. I believe that the bill had a practically scheduled end for the summer of this year, and it has not been possible for me to believe that for a lot of parliamentary wits and filibusterism. I honestly think so. Just. And it's not complaining, it's finding a reality for me. First and one with Mrs. Pindo. You didn't have much trouble, I mean the real problem with what this middle-way says, because there's no correction that you've got, like other orators say, that you're right? However, it's hard for you to admit that this government is doing something good. It will certainly be possible to do more, it will certainly be possible to do better, and it can certainly be done in duplicate, but do they find it difficult to admit that this Government is doing something right? Do they find it difficult to admit that the commitment of the Lehendakari Urkullu and Councilman Erkoreka in some way in this matter, in this particular matter, is firm? Does it cost you that much? I think it is clear and simple. From there come the reluctances to support the transactional and draw a scenario that is badly sympathized with Basque reality. Euskadi is not Valencia, and, as much as some are committed to equalizing them, Basque citizens know. It has gone from being about to sign the transactional, Mrs Pinedo, to a sort of modern Emile Zola, with the "J'accuse", throwing a series of names that have little or nothing to do with each other; a totum revolutum, as the Anglo-Saxons say, a name-dropping of those who make true gala. In the name of clarity, you go to a prior criminalization of public offices that as a group we cannot share. In my humble opinion, and with all reverence, so many and so many shades of your speech, that the reverence due to credibility may be attributed to it. Second, Mr. Becerra. I'd like to thank you first for what you've shown and how you've always been prepared for the interview. However, as you will have noticed, I have made a brief itinerary of parliamentary and governmental initiatives in this area. It could have been extended much longer, but by procedural economy I stopped there. And I did it to make it clear that there was life before we got there. And it is that from your original initiative and from some of the appearances of your spokesmen there is an Adamist idea, as Mr Semper has said here, which, in honor of the truth, is not related to the conversations we have had with you, Mr Becerra. To be clear, the most interested in the existence of Gardena (the most interested in the existence of Gardena) is this Basque Government and the parliamentary groups that support it. As for the so-called "swivel doors", the Law 1/2014 of this Parliament and the decree that develops it regulate the conflicts of interests of public offices and a system of incompatibility no less demanding than that presented months ago by the Courts of Aragon, I understand that with the endorsement of its party as a project, with the pompous name of "Integrity and Public Ethics". As far as the People's Party is concerned, I sincerely believe, as I said before, that they must update their speech and adapt a little more to the Basque reality. With regard to the past legislature and the ninth law of transparency, I must say that some parliamentary group, such as yours, used all the regulatory arguments at its disposal to put its partisan interests before the general interest that endorsed the adoption of this rule. Now, there is also news here, in today's plenary there is news, because it seems that the People's Party is going to support the creation of a Basque Transparency Agency, Gardena, which so far was not manifest. The first point of the transaction says so. You, in some way, advocated or have always advocated an agreement with the state council, of which we, of course, cannot and should not pronounce, because we think that, in some way, Basque citizens deserve something better...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u65	Go to the end, Mr. Lachaga.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u66	... They deserve a system... Bai, mahaiburu andrea, bai. We deserve a prejudicial system, a prejudicial instance in the Basque Country. Agreeing with the state has its cost, and we are not for the work. Apart from the fact that Gardena, by definition, must also serve to promote and disseminate among us the values of transparency and good governance. It is necessary, as I said earlier, to welcome a new culture, a new political culture, in some way based on public governance, good governance. And to conclude I want to be enormously positive and again take advantage of the good atmosphere that has been created today around this law of transparency, to invite you all to a work that is fruitful, and we see ourselves...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u67	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u68	... in the presentation of this new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u69	Thank you, Mr. Lachaga. The representative of EH Collector, Mrs. Pindo, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u70	Yes, thank you, ma'am. The truth is, I want to start... I am not going to do it in order, but I do want to start with something that has drawn much attention to both Mr Latxaga and Mrs Castelo's first intervention: at no time did they say either the word "corruption" or the words "swivel door", or anything like that, in their first intervention. I am drawn to the attention that, when one does not say, it does not even verbalize the word "corruption" (as if we were playing the taboo we played when we were children, and it was the forbidden word), the proponent, who comes here and tells us that thanks to them we will talk about corruption and transparency, firm with them. But, well, that's a little detail of the speeches we've heard today. Mr. Lachaga, I don't have any problems, and I'll never have any trouble telling you when the government does something right, and people in the government know that they know me because they know me. I've never had a problem. But one thing, I think, when I don't see it well, I say it, and I tell it to them directly, without any trouble at all. You'll never take me on that. That Euskadi is Valencia. No! No! But that doesn't take away for things to happen. We're not going to cover our eyes either, Mr. Latxaga! Or is it that there is no case of Miguel? Or is there no problem in Carranza? Or is it that those things are just notes on one side of a newspaper that nobody cares about? They're trouble! Or did nothing happen at the CAN? Or did nothing happen to a lot of issues that we had at this table in the previous legislature, which were brought by different groups? Was nothing wrong? Man, we're not gonna believe that Euskadi is the promised Arcadia, are we? I mean, perfect neither. Valencia will not be, but perfect... The promised Arcadia is not Euskadi, Mr. Latxaga. It's not. Unfortunately, it's not. And, Mr. Becerra, the truth that I did not want to go into these terms, I thought we were going to stay a little on the side of the good scroll, we could say, as some member has said before, but, truth, you tell me that not much has been done, because if we have not reached an agreement it has been postureum... Perhaps we have not reached an agreement because some of us have stood firm in some of the principles we defended and have not been willing to circumvent them in that law, because we believed that it was a fundamental law that had to comply, yes or yes, with basic principles to which we are not prepared to give up at any point in the debate. Well, you've tried the agreement with us, right, and I was willing to reach an agreement on this GNP because I thought it was an issue to reach an agreement. But, of course, when you put the word "corruption" in the GNP and say no, that by putting "incorrect use of public resources" is enough... Man, if we're going to talk about corruption, we're going to name it, because "misuse of public resources" sounds like other things to me. And, in fact, I was also going to proceed to ask for the point vote, as Mr Semper has already done in his speech, and for some reasons I have to say – even if it costs us, Mr Semper – very similar. Because the third point is that the government "continue doing" (which I'm telling you in a good way, Mr. Semper, you know that). Let the government "keep doing"! It is that this is the typical collection of all the proposals of the Basque Nationalist Party, that the government "keep doing", and come the burra to the wheat! And so we're not going anywhere, because we're not moving. And in the second part I told you, that I put exactly what that record was for, that you say that thanks to you... Because he's also come to tell me, he's taken me out, as well as "it's over Mary," the senator's theme, and he's told me that for that yes, but for the records he doesn't... I remind you that that law of 2014 came out unanimously of this House, and EH Bildu was already a group of this House; therefore, we also participated in that vote. I remember. And I've told you I do, but let's just say we want that record as a way to prevent corruption. Let's spell the words! Let's put them on! Things have a name! That's what I told you, Mr. Becerra. I told you. And you come to me with those things. That I understand, eh!, that when you want to present..., but, Mr Becerra, of your proposal to what you have agreed with the parties that support the government there is a world, eh! But a world! Yes, Mr Becerra, you were putting very concrete things here, which I told you that some of them, in relation to the Transparency Agency, believed that it was more appropriate for them to be debated when we were discussing the law itself, and I say it to you as a good thing. I recognize what I said to you, if I have no problem! But then there are other things that you put here that have been very washed away. Because you have made a first intervention, where you have made the speech of your GNP, which has absolutely nothing to do with what you have agreed. There is nothing (Labur egingo dut) of those concrete proposals regarding Gardena, there is nothing of those ten years that you have said, that these gentlemen and that lady will have told you that "green have reaped them"... There's absolutely nothing like that. There's absolutely nothing like that. And, I insist, we were willing to agree, but an agreement with ambition, Mr Becerra.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Sémper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u72	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Pinedo, don't worry too much. It's okay! As long as we agree, and don't be a deal, all quiet. Allow me to joke. Well, very briefly, because I think the arguments are already exposed and put on the table, and now it seems that this is already more one you like and is telling things, hearing some nuances interventions. But I do want to go through some demonstrations, some things that have been said, because it seems fair to me. Look, if we want to have a law of transparency, why is it? Let us at the heart of the matter: we want to have a law of transparency because we believe that it is reasonable, that it is good, that it is good that citizens have access to information about what is happening in their institutions, the measures and the decisions that we politicians take, because it improves our democracy, improving the control of political activity. And we also believe that it will result in a recovery of a lost trust that for various reasons – and here everyone has counted their recipe, but between some and others we are sure to agree on why – has happened over the past few years. But then I have shared with you, Mr Becerra, with all of you, that I believe that, in addition to what the law says, also our own behaviour, our own attitude in the performance of our political activity, helps to restore the confidence of citizens. And one of those attitudes is that of humility, if I may, Mr. Becerra. I believe that the exercise of politics, as in any other aspect of life, but of politics especially, with humility, helps to restore that lost confidence on the part of the citizens. Humility that is not expressed or that is not demonstrated when one says "I have come: the sun rises". "I have come: the sun is coming" denotes a lack of humility, but nothing happens, we will land. And there is also a lack of humility when one manifests, from some ideological orthodoxy, that "this is what I stand for, or the nuances automatically turn the one that matifies into little more or less than suspect." And I say this on account of his expression accusing the People's Party that we have a certain complex, he has come to say, guilt complex around the revolving doors, which will certainly not refer to any of the members of this House. Look, the subject of rotating doors – and I don't care that you or anyone else can label me of anything else – I think it's one of the issues... I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, for the excellent work he has done on this subject. We cannot condemn to civilian death someone who is engaged in politics because there have been people who, by devoting themselves to politics, have made fraudulent use of the trust placed by the citizens. We can't do this. It's not good, because we're vetoing the possibility of capable people, people with good ideas and people with a public service vocation entering politics. Because if, besides being discredited, then when you leave the exercise of politics you can't develop any professional activity, so, listen, we've made a bread like pies! And of this we believe that we can speak with serenity and with roundness, without anyone accusing, to anyone who poses this with this clarity, that it has a certain complex. If you enter this debate to debate in this way, welcome you will be, because the other will be anchored in a position that is likely to be advantageous. Ergo, who can do politics? Who, when he leaves politics, can return to his position as university professor, for example in the Complutense of Madrid? What are we allowing, that only the professors of the Complutense University of Madrid can devote themselves to politics? And I say the Complutense University of Madrid as one might have said. I'm sure you understand me. [[Barres]] I mean, let's talk rigorously, let's talk calmly, and we will be able to legislate correctly to end the mistakes that have undoubtedly been made, and to end them and reform the legislation that needs reform and adaptation to the new times. And, Mr. Latxaga, to finish too. Look, I recognize you that in the face of these kinds of demonstrations I have to jump. When you doubt the attachment to the Basque reality of the People's Party, when you have literally said that "You do not know the Basque reality", listen, understand me that it revolts me, because no one has the heritage of the adequacy or the understanding of the real pulse of the Basque reality. You have yours, sometimes right, sometimes wrong, sometimes we will share, sometimes not, but I do not doubt either your commitment to this land or your identification and your knowledge of Basque reality. But I remind you of one thing (maybe you did not know the processing of this law): we do not at any time amend the creation of a Basque agency for this issue. When you said that, you surprised me. In fact, of the 250 amendments we tabled, not one questioned the creation of an agency. Not one, more than 250. Read them. I encourage you to read them, because that also helps to restore confidence, that is, to know the issues. Because the citizens who may be listening to us, if they see that a politician, for – I am sure that not with will, Mr Latxaga, but wrongly – he affirms things that do not suit reality, they will say "I could have studied this gentleman more, right?". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u73	Thank you, Mr. Sémper. Now that the discussion is over, we'll go to the vote. Popular party has requested points, I think there's no problem... Then we vote first for Podemos, Euskal Socialists, and the Middle Amendors. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u74	As a result, the 1st point has been unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for number two. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 25.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u75	So the second point is accepted. Next, we vote for number three. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 73; the supporters of the country, 48; the contrary, 16; the whites, 0; Abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u76	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Forth point on the theme list: "The other proposition, as the Socialists of Euscal, made by parlamentary groups, concerning the ending of the work of the South, of the Maitz, and of the Oarso, and of the recovery of the ponciferation. Discipline and final resolution. The turn of the party that has made the proposal, the representative of the Basque Socialist group, Mrs. Castelo, has the word to present and take off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u77	We have changed from a third and I am speaking in defence of the first proposal that the Basque Socialists put forward in this legislature. A proposal that, when I was told that I had fifteen minutes to defend it, I said: "Jo, but if it's so brief and concise that, come on, with three it's going to be enough!", because the only thing that is being asked here is that the paper for the reactivation of the Left Margin, the Mining Zone and Oarsoaldea be recovered in order to develop the minimum guidelines and objectives that should be included in the comprehensive recovery plans of these regions. So, when I was thinking at home about how to deal with the intervention, then, I say... I feel very concerned, I do not know if you know (but, if not, I tell you) that I am from Sestao, who took me there with six months, I am forty-seven years old and I have not moved from the people. I mean, the region I know, and what its history has been, from the splendor of the factories, where workers were falling down the slopes (because Sestao has no flat area, we are all cost), to what has been the decline, the industrial crisis, the workers' demonstrations, the problem of unemployment in families and the difficulties that the whole region is going through. I know them very well, and first person. So, of course, when I had to face this, I was like, "Well, what do I do? I'm going to go over a little bit of Parliament's Diary of Sessions to see how this initiative originated, isn't it?". And I saw that in those interventions all the groups gave themselves data, historical evolutions, opinions, ways of seeing things... and the truth is that with a lot of profusion. Then I said, "Well, I'm going to look at what the talk has dedicated the year." And I've seen, a little above, the work that's been going on. A long year of work that has led to a lot of documentation, and in which forty-one people have appeared: twenty representatives, seventeen associations, and four experts in different economic and urban areas have appeared. And the truth is, I was thinking, "Well, I make this simple. So, in order not to get too complicated in a first intervention, you make a summary of this and close the topic by saying what your clear and concise proposal is for the Left Margin." But there was something inside that said no, that I couldn't do this being from the Left Margin and having lived this, and I thought it was better to put myself in the place of a citizen of that region. That's why I was glad that my speech was the first item on the agenda (then I got ahead with the issue of transparency, wasn't it?), and, well, I didn't think I would have much to convince you either, because, as it had been created unanimously and you had worked on the presentation in a good relationship, so this was going to come out unanimously, with no greater effort and with short interventions. I was wrong. I thought like a citizen of the Left Margin to whom they have said "Hey, in Parliament the batteries have been put on and they have begun to see what they can do for the regions of Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea. They've been working for a year, listening to people in the region and so on, and now they want to conclude." They would have said, any neighbor of mine would say, "Perfect, okay. Come on, now let's get the batteries in place and tell us exactly what the guidelines are and what plans have to be put in place in our regions, because we've been waiting a long time." And in that philosophy, when I met the amendments of the rest of the groups, we were talking, and the truth is that I didn't think it would be so hard to reach a consensus. A few minutes ago we obtained a compromise between the four groups that we tabled amendment: Elkarrekin Podemos, EH Bildu, the Nationalist Party and us. And I am clear – and I believe that it is not only clear to me, but also to all the mayors who have passed from the two regions – that the plans to be put in place and the guidelines we give, and the objectives we set, require consensus and inter-institutional collaboration. It is impossible, from any of the administrations concerned, be it the municipalities, be it the parliaments, be it the Basque Government, or be it the State Government alone, to implement an inter-institutional plan. And indeed, all successful experiences have been based on the collaboration of all institutions on concrete objectives. Well, in that glove the mayors pull, out of that need for consensus and out of that need for collaboration, is why I think we have also lowered our positions, or agreed to reach an agreement. And when you come to an agreement – I don't know who told me that before – in a proposal, you have to leave hair on the catera. I mean, when you want to approach positions you take a step forward and the next one also, I mean, you go one approach, and to approach logically you have to leave some issues under the table. What have we come to remember, after so many journeys and comings and cross-mails? Well, then we are going to resume the work of the paper; that we are going to give the opportunity to those groups that join us to request, if they think it necessary, some additional appearance to the forty-one that have already occurred, and that this presentation will finish its work within six months of the occurrence of those appearances. And it is a clear thing that I think you have to mark us in the development of the work that you have to finish making the presentation. We need this Parliament to adopt guidelines and minimum objectives so that in the regions of Ezkerraldea, Meatzaldea and Oarsoaldea we can put in place a plan that gives us a solid and stable future. I want to understand, and I am going to stay here for the moment, that all this coming and going of proposals has been motivated exclusively by the ferocious will and passion shown by parliamentarians who have had to intervene in the drafting of the transactional, and I hope that this challenge will continue to arouse so much passion when we are in the process of conclusions for the development of our regions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Passing over the teams that have been running the corrections together, Podemos, Mr Martínezin, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u79	Good afternoon. Thank you, Mr. President, Congressman. Fortunately, for a short time, we made an agreement, as Mrs. Castelo said, between all the parlamentary groups, to conclude these jobs in a short time. We agree with the Socialist Party's proposal as regards the explanatory statement, and also with the proposal that Euskal Herria Bildu presented in the last parliamentary term, which gave rise to the parliamentary presentation. We agree with the importance that, as Mrs Castelo said, she has this presentation to extract the essential guides for Basque public institutions to establish the fundamental guidelines for the social and economic recovery of these regions, such as those of the Left Margen, Zona Minera and Oarsoaldea. Marks that in a graphic form represent this Euskadi at two speeds that we have right now. Comarcas that, together with others – which I believe we could also update to that of Urola Garaia after the dramatic closure of ArcelorMittal and the dramatic situation of other companies in the region – graphically represent the tail van of this Euskadi. Moreover – and I am going to say some data, which then we will also have the opportunity to give them in the presentation – which, in just metres of separation represented by the Bilbao ria, bear differences, in the gross domestic product per capita, from approximately 38,000 euros in the Right Margin, to 25,000 in the Left Margin, which means for the Left Margin – surely, Mrs Castelo, you will know it as well as I do – to be sixteen points below the Euskadi average. Moreover, according to Osakidetza's own data, they bear differences of between seven and nine years in life expectancy in those very few meters of difference from the Bilbao ria. This and other data are probably the ones that have been seen in the parliamentary presentation during the last parliamentary term, which we have had access to and will continue to work on. And that is why we reaffirm the importance of this subject for our parliamentary group, but also for the whole of Basque society, because the conclusions and guidelines that mark this presentation will or will not, depends on the correctness of the presentation, to end inequality in a geographical space as small as that represented by our country, and also as intolerable in Euskadi as anywhere else. It is necessary to finish, and this paper must have among its main objectives, as I said, to end the inequality that marks and influences personal development, which marks and influences the development of entire populations in these regions; and, ultimately, to end or not with less dignified living conditions that have Basque populations and popular strata living in these regions. But, for all this, in the amendment to the whole that we presented and that now, with the compromise amendment, we obviously withdrew, we thought that the volume of information and appearances that had taken place in the last legislature needed a prudent time to be able to analyse it and to work on it. Papers, on the other hand, which we consider numerous and valuable. And since, as it seems, the star theme or the novelty of this day is that yes, a new parliamentary group is being incorporated, and no, that it is not dawning with us today, and no, that we are also not new even if we are new in the Basque Parliament, we also want to have the opportunity to study, to work, to share the work done in the previous parliamentary term, and also to be able to request, as the amendment says, the appearance of some people and groups who we think may be interesting for the conclusions of the papers. Conclusions which, as I said, should guide the action of the Basque institutions in these regions, but which, in addition, the parties that we are represented here in this House will have to work far beyond the borders, beyond the limits of this House. We must also work in those places where we represent some and some as opposition, and others as government (and I am talking about Congress and the Commission and the European Union), so that the conclusions that this paper makes and the guidelines that this paper makes can be applied in a much more effective way. And I say this here today, and I will also say this in the presentation, and we will do so, because no one is missing the central role that the State still has in some matters, for example in the ownership of land in these areas (many of them, by the way, without transferring), and no one is missing the role that the Commission and the European Union as a whole will play in allowing or limiting public intervention in the economy. And nobody escapes – and it is one of the things that we will also lead to the parliamentary presentation – that, without such public intervention, although not only, the recovery and industrialization of these regions will not be possible. Therefore, because of the importance we gave to this presentation, also because of urgency, but also because of the rigour and, what I said earlier, because of the maximum participation that it requires, we were demanding at this time a time that we thought prudent in order to be able to work. But, Mrs Castelo, I am sorry, nor do I agree with the medals you have put in your speech. We have reached this agreement, we have fortunately reached this agreement, but we do not accept that argument which made our amendments hinder or delay parliamentary work. I think it would be good to look at the history of the Socialist Party on the Left Margin, the decisions of the central government governed by the Socialist Party in the 1980s, to see that some, although we arrive today, are not late. On this point, and once we have reached agreement, I think it is appropriate to urge all the parliamentary groups to get started as soon as possible, to get the papers started as soon as possible, better next week than in January. Our disposition, here we leave it today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u80	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. Collect the EH team, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u81	Hello. Good noon, everyone. Today the legislature will resume its plan to examine and encourage the left side, the Mines, and the Oarso part of the country. The good and cheerful news, no doubt. What didn't make it so difficult, even if we'd made it a little harder for all of us, we'd end up doing things the way we had to do them, and, luckily, we'd better get the crew started, this reactivate comes from a decision and a agreement. On 7 May 2015, this House also unanimously adopted a non-legislative proposal submitted by Euskal Herria Bildu and having sex with the PNV and PSE groups, which led to the creation of a parliamentary paper aimed at analysing and proposing ways of resolving the socio-economic situation of the regions of Oarsoaldea and Margen Izquierda, including in the latter – or together with the latter, so as not to hurt susceptibility – the Mining Area or Meatzaldea. The GNP which gave rise to the creation of the paper consisted of four points which expressed four fundamental ideas which I am going to repeat today in a succinct way, since, after all, it is this initiative that we are recovering, reactivating and re-enhancing. First, we observed at that time that the gravity of the situation of the regions under consideration in this paper, both in absolute terms and in relation to the rest of the regions of this community, required active and priority intervention in them. Secondly, the creation of the paper itself was agreed with the literal objective of analysing with industrial, political, social and institutional agents related to Oarsoaldea and the Left Margin, including for the purpose of working in the Mining Zone, possible solutions to the socio-economic situation of these regions. Thirdly, this paper was entrusted with the approval of the guidelines and the minimum objectives, which should contain two inter-institutional plans for the regeneration and reactivation of the Left Margin, the Mining Zone and the Oarsoaldea, which not only gave this body the power to study the situation, but also called for the proposal of reactivation measures in the form of guidelines and objectives, and also explicitly – and this is very important – the need to give way to these proposals through the elaboration of two inter-institutional plans for district regeneration. The fourth and final point referred to the declaration of these regions as less-favoured areas by the European Union, and called on the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness to materialise the productive aid that such a declaration authorized; a request that the department would carry out later through the Indartu Plan, and – everything is not going to be right – I have to say that, in the opinion of this group, with very modest results. On the 13th of October last year, this power began its course with the scene of the researcher of Men Estre's Orkestra Institute. From that point on, and, as has been said, almost twenty times, this ponciness was collected, and by ten o'clock the person passed through it, in order to make very interesting contributions (and I say with all sincerity), sometimes apart from the testimony, and also to import the documentation. The power did its work, in a very healthy atmosphere, in a very proper atmosphere for the company, and, I believe, a very active attitude from all the members of the community, and, more or less, I should say, with enthusiasm. And on this point, I would praise the introduction of the other members of this empire, and would also mention their labours, and their names: Cristina Ruiz, member of the Potion Party, Jon Azkue, the Social Party, and Leire Corries, Euzilaus. It must also be said that, apart from this active attitude of the members of the power, the position of all the agents who passed through it was extremely interesting, and especially that it must be remarked that a very positive attitude of this kind is very positive. In all cases this initiative was applauded. But let us say that all the institutional authorities had made an effort, applauded the initiative, and admitted that, if we are really to solve these regions, this remedy will follow not only from the sympathizing of all institutions, but also from the sympathizing of social, academic, and other institutions. We shall not here repeat the arguments we discussed in due time, a year and a half ago, the description of the situation. The discussion was made at that moment, and not now, for happily we have an agreement. But let us mention only that the work done by ponciation confirms the initial examination. That is to say, these regions require special attention, because we have a first need. The examination, the examination in power, put some very crudely on the table the serious problems that are in these parts. The low degree of education, the loss and age of the population, the privations of a hundred producers, the affairs of the city, and even the disappearance of industry in environment. This diagnosis, no doubt, expresses clearly in this next stage, where we are now going to begin, where work, consequences, and recommendations are to be centered. But, as we do not dispute backwards and forwards, we will not go forward either, and in the course of our opening we shall be able to agree with all these consequences and recommendations. Zorionez, exaten nuen, akordio bat lortu dogu pontzia hau guztion artean berraktibatzeko. And we believe it was important, and that is why we have insisted on the need to make a series of changes to the initial proposal, we believe it was important to make that series of changes to achieve three objectives. First, to make this paper and the approval of the papers of this paper a shared decision, as was shared by the beginning of the paper in 2015 and so that we try to maintain that spirit with which the papers of this paper have also developed. We thought it might be, it might be possible that, since the paper ended its work abruptly, there was a need to request some additional appearance, even by the groups that made up the paper in the previous legislature. And we also understood that, having arrived at a new force in the House, they also had the right to be participants, if not equal, because time was more limited, but they did leave their mark and try to give them the opportunity to invite people who felt they were right to attend. Of course, we are not talking about a delay or a proposal, as in the end we have managed to reach an agreement, which would delay the completion of the work of this paper. Sometimes it is often said that of "slowly dress me, that I am in a hurry", and doing things right and rigorously sometimes it is much better than making them fast and running, and that is why we thought we had to give thought to the initial proposal. And, indeed, as mentioned above, leaving all and all hairs in the catera, in the end we have managed to reach that agreement. All people have the same rights, live in these regions that we are analyzing or in others, but equality does not mean uniformity. Those areas that are in a more deteriorated situation have the right to receive greater attention and resources from the institutions, and have it inherent in their situation of need, in response to an elementary attitude of solidarity. This right to receive priority attention is perceived or multiplied even more sharply if, as in the case before us, these regions, today in a situation of socio-economic prostration, have in their time been the tractor regions of the rest of the country for a long time, and if, moreover, as a result of this task of economic traction, they have done, as they have actually done Meatzaldea, Ezkerraldea and Oarsoaldea, a huge human, urban and environmental sacrifice. A third reason for a specific effort towards these regions is based on the fact that the reason for their situation is also to a large extent in a process of deindustrialisation that is neglectedly managed, which has given rise to a situation of structural weakness in the productive fabric of these areas. Therefore, we are also, and for all these reasons, faced with a situation of moral debt, which with this presentation, to some extent, we can begin to settle, especially if the conclusions are really fruitful and really give rise to work that allocates sufficient resources and energies. Because, of course, we are not dealing with a simple issue. From the starting-point of the left and the Oarsoean, we believe that with this power we have acquired the prospect of local development in this Chamber. And we believe that local development is very important and that we must continue this methodology and this philosophy, in order to study more region by region, not perhaps in the same format, to dedicate a specific ponciency, but we believe that the tools which the theory of local development will be useful to us, in order to admit the truth, because there are other regions in our country which are especially delicate. And here, I would like to mention, for legal reasons, that in this first phase of the Left and Oarsoea, even if we have discussed a district of Biscaia and another from Gipulia, we believe this Chamber also has to do a thing of this kind in this region, in the most weak condition of Araban. And no more, I'll end up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u82	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u83	... thank all the teams, because they've made it possible at the last moment and in extremis agreement, by an agreement of one mouth, to turn the power and industry back on, and wish that this job may be productive, and give fruit to those countries which require so much more fruit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr. Telllería, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u85	The chief physician, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, all the good noontides. It may have been that in this case the trees would have prevented us from seeing the forest and we would have been lost in a debate about the forms and ways, which might be important, which are important, but which should not blind us to the objective that, I am sure, all of us and we have, that it is no more than progressing in a paper that addresses the situation and the possible solutions of regions in a very deteriorated economic and unemployment situation, which require the help of all and all of us so that those who are having a bad time go along with the rest of Euskadi, so that no one will be relegated to what is beginning to be a summary of our global growth for the economic crisis, which has left us exhausted, but never yielded. I'm not going to stay long, though the deep stuff is going on for a long time. For in June last year it is a matter well explained and discussed, and though there were any differences, the agreement proved that the agreement was preponderance. The left and the east are regions which require special planning and special protection. That's where we all agreed, and we keep on agree. The goal is to encourage economy and employment growth, and to recover the damage to the suburbs, as well as others. In fact, the paper has been received, in an environment that I could characterize as cordial, and we would all generally agree, to dozens of people who had important things to tell us, and at the end of the legislature the paper had a huge documentation that – I must also be honest – will cost assimilating and digesting. After the end of the legislature, all the initiatives not supported, and the presentations included, decay, seeming logically to take advantage of the work carried out in 2015 and 2016 reactivating that presentation. It does not seem that the South, the Meazan, and the Oarso part have been left distracted. Not at all! The institutions continue to give everything to these sites, to make an effort to multiply the reconstruction of the economy that is being given in Eukadin. Thus, by setting a single example and not boring, which is not the objective of my intervention (it is not, and they will see it throughout the legislature), the Basque Government through the Indartu programme, in its call for 2015, granted aid to Ezkerraldea and Oarsoaldea that attracted EUR 89 million of investment in ten new industrial projects, creating a total of 426 new jobs. The 2016 call is about to come to a close, and in a few days I guess we'll have news of it. That is, being the presentation a very important instrument, which has allowed and will allow your ladies and gentlemen to delve into what is happening in these regions and what are the dreams and wishes of their people, the administrations, from the municipalities of the regions themselves to the outlaws and the Basque Government itself, as I have said, continue to work, because they are as aware of the reality that is lived in Ezkerraldea and Oarsoldea as this House itself. It would have been a pity if I had not been able to reach unanimity in the proposal to resume this presentation, and those who have preceded me in the word know that, and in the end it has been possible. And, as I hope, that the paper will continue with all its work, and if we are able, that I believe it is, in the good atmosphere that presided over it in the last parliamentary term, I will not go further than the satisfaction of the effort made by all for this unanimity. Although, analyzing very briefly the transaction we had, EAJ-PNV only maintained with the originals presented by Bildu and Podemos the difference of a perhaps greater realization in number of possible appearances and in time, which in any case Elkarrekin Podemos already had. But we're not going to argue if it's ten or fourteen, or if it's in three or four months. That could have been today's debate, but it was neither good nor logical, and a proposal will come out unanimously that says what we all said initially separately: that the presentation be resumed, that all the work of the previous one be collected, that the fan of some possible new appearances be opened, especially considering the new presence of Elkarrekin Podemos in the House, and that all this be done relatively quickly. If that's what we all wanted, today we're going to approve it unanimously. While the other way could separate us nuances, nuances that I hope, I really hope, do not mark the future works; that nuances are that, residual scraps that should not make us abandon the path that we have set ourselves to collaborate among all the groups in this House in bringing ideas and convictions to cooperate in solving the problems of Ezkerraldea and Oarsoldea. As Robert Louis Stevenson said, "the important thing is not to arrive, but to go," and that "going" has to be with the will to contribute and collaborate. And for that I appeal to my idolatry in this case Machiavelo, who said, "There can be no great difficulty where goodwill abounds." That's what we need, good will, and that I suppose to all and everyone who will participate in this presentation. And that with a single clavicle. When I have both, you'll see! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. A group that hasn't announced any correction, Popular, Monsieur Damborena, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u87	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. We did not make an amendment because we agreed with the original proposal, also with the amendments tabled by the other groups, and yesterday it was difficult for us to understand how it was almost impossible to reach an agreement between all the groups. But I think with our position we've achieved something. I am going to repeat the words of the Lehendakari, when the other day he was telling us that employment is the best social policy, among other things because this is a very phrase of the People's Party for many years. And when we are talking about the Left Margin, or the region of Oarsoaldea or the Mining Zone, we are talking about disadvantaged areas, we are talking about that: the lack of job creation. And I, recognizing the work that has been done in the previous paper, do miss... it is true that more than forty people have appeared, but I miss social workers. If what we are really talking about is employment, I have not seen that employers have attended, nor have I seen that at least two of the large unions have attended. And I understand that, if we all agree that this is good, they should be able to appear. I also want to say, and to repeat the words of the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, that the important thing is not to arrive but to go, to see if we are going, going, going... and never arriving. And I'll explain myself. Because, if all the mayors of the municipalities concerned have paraded through the committee; at least two, when not three, outlaw deputies of the two outlaws concerned, and at least two councillors of the Basque Government, and all agree on the same, and in the end what we are asking is for an interinstitutional plan to be made, I would encourage the councillor to go with that plan and draft of the plan now, so that in this paper – I say for it to be useful – we can have that draft, and in order to make the conclusions the groups can contribute to those drafts of interinstitutional plans. And I will tell the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party that it is not a good example of action that, being on the dates when we are in 2016, that is, ending 2016 the planned aid for this area, because, in the end, it is still not materialized. Which means that in 2017, or when it is, it will be when they become effective. And this is the responsibility of the government. And I just want to thank you all. We will obviously collaborate in this presentation by doing the best we can and understand, and hoping that the conclusions will eventually be translated into sharp and sound items in the budget. Because everyone here is putting on the medals of what works and is concerned about the Left Margin, but I will recall that only our group, in the last three budgets, tabled amendments precisely for these interinstitutional plans, which were rejected by those groups that are so concerned about the Left Margin.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In answer time, Basque Socialists, Mrs. Castelo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u89	Well, since today is the first day and I don't want to get upset or let you think that I'm not able to control myself, I'm not going to answer the last words that Mr. Antón Damborenea has said, when he tells us that some of us seem to be very concerned about the Left Margin. I would like some, instead of worrying so much, to do something else, and not to paralyze some performances from where they rule, which would surely have gone much better to the Left Margin for a longer time. But, well. I must be explaining very badly in this first intervention, and I will try to review the video later. Because I didn't want to put medals at any time with the theme on the Left Margin. Well, it's not that we're late, it's that you're late. I mean, we're all late to the situation in the regions of the Left Margin, Mining Zone and Oarsoaldea. But it was not a question of who comes first or last, or who has had more or less responsibility, because this has been tried to solve and there have been plans at different times and in different historical times. Here the point was that the House has begun work in the last legislature, and that I believed, and my group, that it was essential that this work should be completed. And it will end with a concrete thing, or at a concrete time. I mean, okay, we've accepted the theme that anyway, it's true, there's a lot of documentation, it's going to take time, I'm going to need time myself to process all the documentation there is, but the road has to go but you have to get to the finish line. That goal we thought it had to be fixed, that we could not again remain on an indefinite subject, of "as soon as possible", "in the shortest possible time"... Then, in that sense, the ability to agree that has been had, then, there has been... On the one hand, we are going to allow new appearances, we are going to continue in that enthusiastic, active, positive and cordial atmosphere that has been said by the different members who have intervened in this matter, and we are going to see if we are able to have among ourselves that synergy that we are going to ask the institutions, social agents and private agents who have to intervene in this region. I don't want to do things fast and running, but I don't want to slow down either. I mean, I think there's a fair and proper speed, and that's the one we'll have to find. We have been working on this for over a year, and I think it is important that we be able to conclude. And it is true, the regions need special attention; it is true, it has to be a shared decision, and it is true that the important thing is to set deadlines in which we can say what the minimum criteria and objectives are. I believe there are few trees in the region of Margen Izquierda and Oarsaldea to prevent us from seeing the forest. Luisja, don't worry, that we'll have I think the greatness enough not to let us beat by the nuances. And we hope to show you not a good will, but an excellent will to reach a good end in what we can help or contribute to the improvement of the future of the regions of the Left Margin, Mining Zone and Oarsaldea. That's right, forgive us if at some point our passion makes us light up. But I think we're gonna be able to make it to the end. Not only to walk the road, but to reach the end, because that is ultimately the important thing. I would like to congratulate and thank you all for the support that the initiative will receive, and wish all of us that we are able to reach a good port, and that we give at least one hope to all the citizens who live in these regions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Castelo. Anybody else want to take the word? Yes, Martínezion first, together Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u91	To end better, without more, and simply highlight...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u92	Just give me a minute.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u93	Now you do, don't you? To highlight, therefore, yes, the way we have managed to do so far, and to point out the agreement, which seems to us to be positive, that we asked for more time, a time which we thought prudent, but without any need to deceive ourselves with the fact that the agreements have to hide differences, which also exist. Differences that may be of substance, both from analysis and from accounts. I believe that today and then in the committee each of our parliamentary groups will have to explain with the greatest possible sincerity the account of what has happened, the account of the situation and the diagnosis of the situation in these regions, in order to then be able to see whether we are able to reach an agreement to establish those lines and these presentations. I would like to point out the agreement, and then also to point out the possibility that the agreements do not necessarily have to hide deep differences in diagnosis that we can have between the various parliamentary groups, and that hopefully – that our disposition is there – we will come to positive conclusions for these regions, which is actually what the groups have to work for, to solve the dramatic situation of the regions we have analysed, and that the data are on top of the table. Nothing more. Eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u94	Thank you, Mr Martínez Izón. From EH, Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u95	I also would like to mention that the agreement in this present stage is very important, and although the climate is relatively favorable to the medium of association, I can tell you, and I have said more than once on the committee itself, that the time of disagreement will come, and, of course, we believe in making propositions that we defend different political projects, and since it is logical, they will be discovered and we shall probably have difficulties. But we shall agree more clearly, if we agree (and I think it will be possible), if we make the way in a proper environment, in a climate which produces better conditions for agreements. And one last question in response to a question that Mr Damborenea mentioned. I myself believe that, when you said that you did not understand very well the differences that led us to be discussing until the last moment, you responded when you missed various appearances; moreover, the three appearances that you mentioned, of the representation both of the employer and of the two unions that did not come, that at the time were requested and that, by the abrupt end of the last legislature, could not come to materialize, also because of agenda problems of the agents invited. And what this shows is that a huge amount of documentation and attendance work was actually done, but there still remained, on the part of the groups that participated in the last parliamentary term in this paper, the possibility of making some more petition, and obviously even greater is that need in the case of the groups that join. There's a bit of an answer to the subject you've had us on until the last moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u97	Yes, very short. I'm glad, I think there's starting to be more cordiality. When I talk about trees, I don't talk about the trees of Ezkerraldea or Oarsoaldea. I'm talking... And you know perfectly well what I said. There's been a time when the trees didn't let us see the forest, and we've cleared the way and perfect. I was surprised by Mr Damborenea's taunt, which, well, I don't know, didn't come to the story, of course. And then I just came up with a sentence to the head, that you take it not directly in its expression, but in its symbolology. Schopenhauer said, I think more Lamarckian than Darwinist, that "a bull does not fit because it has horns: it has horns because it wants to bet". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u98	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mr. Damboreea, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u99	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'm not going to argue with you about bulls or horns, which I see you know more about matter than I do. What I wanted to remind you of is that you govern in the Basque Government, in the outlaws, in the municipalities, and that, if all the groups say that an interinstitutional plan is needed, I repeat to the honourable Member that the batteries should be put in place. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u100	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, together with Podemos, EHG, and the Middle Amendors who have signed the media. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: the given votes, 73; supporters, 73; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u101	So, unanimously, the correction of the medium has been accepted. The fifth point in the theme list: "The other proposition of the Parlamentary Society as made by the Parlamentary Society, concerning changing the regulation which regulates social aids. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal is Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potula team, who has the word to present and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u102	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, the President (I thought he would stay in this interesting debate, but it seems as if he had decided to go away and not hear it). Good day, Congressmen, chiefs. The Popular Party brings back a debate on the protection system. That is to say, a debate on social friendships. We have several times brought this debate into the legislature, not only the Poptular party, but also the citizens have brought this debate into the legislature by a specific proposal, and the majority of the legislature refused this proposition. Seeing that this government has done nothing for the last four years, the Popular Party has decided to bring this proposal back to the legislature. The People's Party is bringing back an initiative of concern to the citizens (the modification of the system and of the rules of social aid), bearing in mind that this government – and I regret that Mr Urkullu has not remained in an interesting debate and for which he expressed concern in his investiture speech – I say that we are bringing back a debate of concern to the citizens, who are on the street, as we have already done during the last parliamentary term, and as did the citizens through 40,000 signatures presented in this Parliament. That, by the way, his voice was silenced and the consideration of his initiative, of the popular legislative initiative, was not admitted. The People's Party subsequently echoed this initiative, and neither was it taken into consideration. Therefore, the voice of the citizens was silenced. And bearing in mind that the debate is still on the street and that the debate concerns the citizens, and bearing in mind that this government has done nothing for the past four years, we are bringing this issue back to the Basque Parliament in this first initiative for debate in this House. The Basque Government spent three years of the previous legislature refusing to open a debate on the protection system in Euskadi, on the social aid system. That, at the end of the legislature, in the last year, or rather in the last half of the year, recognized that there could be problems, perhaps by giving evidence of the data, of the data provided by the Government itself in response to questions from the People's Party. Three years denying the existence of deficiencies in the system, eventually yielding to the evidence of the data. These data showed that EUR 133 million of undue charges existed, of which barely 13 % had been recovered at the end of the parliamentary term. Those data showed that the intermediation rate and the target set by the Government itself by 5% had not been reached, because the intermediation rate at the end of the legislature had given 3.21%. And those last statements with which we were surprised (well, we were not surprised, because the citizens already knew the problem) Mr Toña, saying that the companies passed from Lanbide, or even the vice-advisor himself when he pointed out that his children, who were permanently in employment portals on the internet, did not even get through their heads to point to Lanbide. Seeing all this, seeing that this reality is a problem for the inhabitants, and that this government has done nothing, we have decided again to present this proposition. We would therefore like to highlight from the People's Group once again in this House the inaction of this government throughout the last parliamentary term in addressing the issue of social aid, of the Lanbide protection system, in a problem that is already detected, that was already detected and that, as I say, the Basque Government at the end had to surrender to the evidence. And there are all the statements I have just referred to. That is why we believe that, in the face of the agreement and the compromise amendment signed, it is not the time for pacts, ladies and gentlemen. This is no time for study. It's time... because it should have been time to move on. It is not the time of dead times, as the advisor asked us at the last appearance, in which he made Lanbide's balance sheet corresponding to the years 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015, in June of this year. This is no time for dead times. When one already presents a balance sheet, he is supposed to have a diagnosis of the situation, and more so when the lehendakari himself tells us that the system needs to be reformed, in his first appearance in this Parliament. We therefore believe that it was already time to have acted, to take the bull by the horns, when, I say, there was already a clear diagnosis of the situation in the Basque system of protection. That is why the People's Party, in view of this compromise amendment, is going to keep our original proposal, which is very clear. It goes in line with the demand on the street. It is in line with the 40,000 signatures that have been presented in this Parliament. And the mandate of this House is very clear: to urge the Basque Government to come forward with a proposal, within the next four months, to amend the social aid rules. An effective and efficient protection system is of course an essential tool for social cohesion and the fight against poverty. Social justice and solidarity are principles that constitute our mark of identity. We share with thousands of Basque citizens the concern to avoid abusive situations, abuse, fraud, to safeguard the rights of the weakest and to correct the many shortcomings presented by the system, when we have a tool of our own, such as Lanbide, which has been an opportunity following the transfer of active employment policies; a tool of our own to combat unemployment and, of course, to continue on that path of recovery in which the Government of the People's Party, the Government of the People's Party of Spain, has placed us, because here the Basque Government has done nothing about employment, and we refer to the facts, we refer to the data, especially with the failure of Lanbide. That is why we are with the thousands of citizens who want a more effective, fairer, more supportive system that safeguards, as I said, the rights of the weakest, and that avoids abusive situations. Those abusive situations which Mr Lehendakari also recognized, I do not know whether in the momentum of one morning and in that exercise which may sometimes accompany him with pragmatism, but which has subsequently not been accompanied by specific actions by his entire Government over four years, when he himself recognized that there were abusive situations and that the best evidence of social justice and social justice is precisely to combat such injustices, abusive situations and fraud. The existence of abuse and fraud, therefore, for us is the greatest evidence of insolidity that may exist. It is therefore an obligation to arbitrate the mechanisms necessary to tackle them. Strengthening solidarity mechanisms means extending protection to those who are not in the system and who are left out, such as those who have a habitual home but who have a small patrimony, such as a small storage room, and who are currently not in the system and are left out. Solidarity is to give an opportunity to those who are receiving social assistance, it is to give an opportunity to those who do not want to be chronicled, who also, as the lehendakari said, cannot be condemned to be in the protection system. He said all these things throughout the last legislature in the repeated questions and questions that we asked them from this group, but then they did not come to the solutions. And now, when we present this initiative again, we are told again about pacts, diagnosis and studies, when the situation is certainly very clear what it is. It is time to definitively connect social assistance with employability; it is time for the system not only to have a gateway, but also a gateway, and it is time, of course, to arbitrate the necessary measures, to put in place the inclusion agreements, these personalized training itineraries, so that activation for employment is a reality. Look, ladies and gentlemen, the protection system in Euskadi is one of the most advanced not only in the rest of Spain, but in the rest of Europe. It represents the system, the expenditure on social aid in Euskadi, 40% of the minimum income for inclusion in all of Spain; half of the budget of the Department of Employment, Social Affairs and then Housing (now Employment and Social Affairs, after the distribution you have made with the Socialist Party, where the department has clearly lost competences, leaving Housing, I say)... The system accounts for 40% of Spain's minimum income in terms of spending, and the budget is half... The social aid budget, with EUR 461 million per year allocated in the last 2015-2016 budgets (which, by the way, should be remembered that the amount initially budgeted, when configured as a subjective right, had to be extended by EUR 30 million, reaching EUR 500 million), that budget is half of the budget, more than half of the budget of the Department of Employment, Social Aid and Housing. I therefore believe that it is time to assume responsibilities, it was time to have assumed responsibilities, and of course to ensure that resources are managed efficiently and to ensure that aid reaches those who really need it. And I am finishing by making a reference to the May 13 appearance of Mr Toña, who replaced Mr Aburto, who told us that the problem was that companies would pass from Lanbide. Of course, we were asking what this government was doing when it sees companies passing from Lanbide, what a government that has the powers in Lanbide does. Of course, we already know that the transfers of active employment policies were impeded when Mr Zapatero and Mr López were present as the Basque Government, and that that transfer was delayed, but you have been four years, and in those four years you have done nothing on this issue. They said that they were aiming for qualitative improvements, Mr Toña told us; that the work of the technical committee of the RGI is underway, that in the next few days they would finish their reflections and raise to the adviser, who has been replaced, the technical recommendations that they considered appropriate. Even the councillor told us that he had a draft on the table, but that, as he was getting along, that he could not yet provide it, but that the committee was completing those work, and even told us that he had had fifteen meetings. And you come to us today talking about a pact, talking about the need to optimize all aspects that have to do with the system... I believe that more than optimising we should have talked about healing, more than anything to go in line with the speech of the lehendakari – unless it is a hollow speech –, of reforming the system, in its first appearance, in the appearance of investiture in this Plenary. They're talking about a diagnosis. I think, as I was saying, the diagnosis is enough. They're talking about a report being made by a technical committee in five months... But if the report already told us the counselor who had it on the table, in the absence of the last touches! And I believe, ladies and gentlemen, simply that this agreement is a mockery of this Parliament and of the thousands of Basque citizens who consider this to be a priority issue, and that this is a problem that needs to be addressed and that public officials have to address, especially those with responsibilities of government and those who have also repeated their responsibilities of government, also because the citizens have wanted to do so. And I say this because the objectives were very clear at the beginning of the legislature. Mr Aburto already told us that the objective in this legislature was to move towards employability. Where is the transition to employability, with an intermediation rate of 3.21%, when the objectives themselves have not been met, which Mr Aborto set at a first appearance, of 5%? He told us more things: that transit was to employability, to employability, because Lanbide was eating the management of the files alone. Of course, the management of the dossiers has not had to be done very well, when EUR 133 million has been generated from undue charges, many of which are attributable to Lanbide, which then we would be talking not about undue charges, but about undue payments. How do we not have a diagnosis, when we have had multiple debates here on employment, poverty, when we have had the debate on the Lanbide strategic plan, with motions for resolutions, with important work by the groups represented in this House? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it is time for further dilatory manoeuvres, which is not the time to patch up. And this agreement, of course, wants to put a new patch on a matter that already had to have had concrete proposals for reform, to remedy the many shortcomings detected. But, ladies and gentlemen, today you all sign an agreement, perhaps also with the intention of leaving the People's Party alone, as you have done on many occasions throughout the past parliamentary term. But they do not leave the People's Party alone: they silence again and give a door again to those thousands of Basques who have already brought here in the last legislature an initiative demanding concrete measures. Requiring concrete measures that you did not take at the time and which unfortunately today with this agreement remain unadopted. Therefore, we will keep the original initiative presented. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u103	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections together, Mrs. Podemos, Mrs. Guanche, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u104	Good noon, all of you, and thank you, Mr. President, at table, and the members of the law. It is a great challenge for me to be here today, and not only for making a part of my speech. I am a social worker, and I am proud to say that I know the everyday problems, the privations, the dramas of many people. I'm here to propose a proper reply to all of them. The rent to guarantee incomes doesn't work, and I'm talking it over. For even those who have an income have difficulty, and great ones. We want to change the whole system so that we can guarantee the rights of every citizen. The Basque People's Group's non-legislative proposal begins by talking about solidarity and justice, and it is precisely for justice and solidarity that we believe it is essential to reform income guarantee income, but we differ with you, although it does not seem to interest you, in three main respects. The first is that we believe that there is a need for reform of the whole system, not just of benefits. We understand that this reform is necessary, but from a more global point of view, and there we certainly do not agree. The second is that, precisely in the interests of the protection of people, our view as legislative power in the Basque Country must be long. To this end, we have an obligation not to use this tool as a bold weapon to promote racism, xenophobia or exclusionary attitudes, which generate first-rate citizens and second-rate citizens in this country. The third thing, but not necessarily in order to the importance it occupies, is that, if we talk about income security as a right earned by and for citizens, we cannot afford to sit here and take away content. Anyway, and let's be clear, we haven't come here to that. Turning today's speech around these three ideas, we want to break down the reasons that led us to present an amendment to the whole that has been negotiated with the rest of the groups in this House after all. Social aid is mentioned in the People's Party's non-law proposal. We, in coherence and respect for the law, but also in coherence with a higher level of view, want to talk about law. And talking about law means talking about benefit. I don't know if any of you will wonder why, but just in case I'm going to explain it. Eduardo Galeano said that unlike solidarity, which is horizontal and is exercised equally, charity is practiced from the top down, humbles the one who receives it and never alters the relations of power a little bit. We understand that access to a subjective right is not about charity, as it is not about helping. In Euskadi, who fulfils the requirements, he is entitled to receive the benefit, because, as stated in article 1 of the Income Guarantee Act itself, it is intended to regulate the Basque system of income guarantee and social inclusion, and, within its framework, the right to economic benefits and to instruments designed to prevent the risk of exclusion, to alleviate situations of personal, social and labour exclusion, and to facilitate the inclusion of those who lack sufficient personal, social or economic resources for the effective exercise of the social rights of citizenship. That is to say, to facilitate the inclusion of those without resources is not to help them: it is to put in place tools, which are resources of all, at their disposal, and that these tools guarantee the effective exercise of their right. In order to guarantee this right and to be consistent with the purpose of the legislation itself, it is essential to bet that access is clear and shielded on the role, but also in practice, of all citizens meeting these requirements, of course. We are a little dotty in the use of the term, we know it, but we understand that talking about empty aid content right, and what is not named does not exist. The second is that we firmly believe that you have a clear obsession with pursuing Lanbide's deficit, and we agree, without being a clear precedent, that the system must be efficient and flawless, but in all areas. What we are not going to agree on, and that is for sure, is that the control of fraud becomes a tool to persecute impoverished people and charge them with the sin of not being born in the percentage of population that handles wealth. In addition, we hope to see you in these years who have been defending the persecution of fraud in all areas with equal pride, even if it may be a long way to go. In any case, and I come back to the subject, poverty is not something to be chosen, and although I think it is hard to think, it may be something that could happen to you. The data make it clear, and we are not going to talk about severe poverty: in Basquedi, a paradise of social policies, there is an index of inequality that does not stop growing, specifically from 20.6 to 24.6 between 2008 and 2014, and we will see the data that continues to arrive; it is estimated that there are about 70,000 Basque households that this year will not be able to put the heating up, and there are no less than 3,700 more than the previous year; there are already 18.5 % of the population that cannot cope with unforeseen expenses. We understand that we must fight to build a better and more effective system, but that does not necessarily mean creating more control mechanisms that are above the law, above protection and, ultimately, above people. Attitudes and premises on which the proposal of the People's Group is based, in substance and in form, not only contribute to the coexistence of a healthy, solidarity-based and just society, but also to those who are having a bad time against those who are having a bad time. Ladies and gentlemen of this House, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, is the political revenue you hope to get out of this so much? If my stay in this House goes through this, please tell me, that today I will open, and I will put an end to it. Thirdly, we believe that the forthcoming reform of income-guarantee income must inevitably go through a joint look, but above all that we must not joke about citizenship. Efficient use must be made of resources, of all. Starting from the study that has already been carried out and that is named in the consensus text that we present today, we understand that it is a priority to look for the most appropriate time and form to reform this tool, but always (and I always say) in order to give more and better coverage to the whole population. Not for the sake of controlling her, not for the sake of judging her for being guilty of not arriving at the end of the month or of not being able to find employment in an increasingly precarious and unfair labour market, where only her friends of suit and tie win. Employment has been considered the key to access to rights, but we have to open our eyes once and for all to an obvious reality, which is that employment no longer guarantees anything, no longer gives security, and often, for most people, no longer guarantees rights. This opens up challenges of reform over many laws, many of which have made employment precarious, in which you have more responsibility than I do, that is clear. But, well, let's get back to it. There is an undeniable fact, and it is here that the GIR, although we think it does not work well, is serving to alleviate the consequences of labor reforms that have so precariously caused the labor market that has generated what is now known as precarious. Let us not take away the tools that at the moment, even though there are things that do not work, are serving to alleviate the most serious consequences of all that in most of the population. In conclusion, we believe that the non-legislative proposal presented by the People's Group needs to be completely amended, since, while we agree on the need to implement a work of reform of the GIR, we believe that it should be done in a calm way and with particular regard to the protection of individuals. With this idea as an engine, we have been able today to reach an agreement on one of the issues that for Elkarrekin Podemos is central and that we also understand to be a matter of country. We understand that it is necessary to find common ground, because, as I said before, this is not to draw political results, but to improve the social protection of more than 65,000 living units. In this respect, it is fair to recognise the fundamentals of the contributions of the other groups so that today we can present a consensus amendment, which provides us with a scenario of comfortable debate for all. We want the system to be reformed, ensuring its sustainability and viability. We also want that reform to go through a wide-ranging debate involving the social partners, because without them this work would always be half done. We hope that the compromise to achieve that debate, which is held within a reasonable time frame and on such an important subject, will be the basis for a long-distance journey that will enable us to find solutions to issues of concern to citizens, to ensure their well-being and the exercise of their rights. It is essential that we allow a fundamental debate to exist, a contrast to civil society and a return to everything that does not work, without losing sight that what has to be at the centre are people. Diacen's terera "made of action." That's why we're on our way, but we're on our way with all the people together and with all the rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Kortah's, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u106	Congressmen, already good noon to all. My first time in this field. I'm nervous and I can't deny it, but I've got to start with a classic, Laura Garrido has also said so. And, to be honest, I'm a social assistant too, like Tinishara Guanche, and in the last few years his discourse about Popular parties and the Rhia has given us a lot of work and a lot of discussion. So let's start with our favorite theme. The theme that we like and care about, the truth about what Leire Pinedo and the Borja Sémper have begun, either in that or in these coincidences, is one of us in the need of the revision of this system. This is where our common points are probably reached. We have the appearance of poverty, poverty, social neglect, and industry in our last years; social differences rise, because the poor are growing poorer and poorer. The experts say we've climbed a level on the scale of poverty and retirement. The active poverty is already obvious, the existence of employment does not guarantee security or stability. The phenomenon of poor workers has come to us too. These workers who charge wages more and more precursors continue thanks to such preparations as RGI. And more and more, more than 12,000. According to the data given by the EAPN network, 385,000 citizens live in poverty or are in great danger of falling into social retirement. He lives on the edge of the border 17% of the people of Araba, Bizkai, and Gipunah. It's true, and probably the Jeltarian Party will remember that the state of the member is much better than that of the Spanish state. In this community, we have a strong system to guarantee the incomes, which can be compared to those in Europe in the rate of coverage, conditions, ends, and guarantees. In poverty, in the intensity of these conditions of poverty, and in the diminution of social differences, the positive influence which the euscal system has exercised is undeniable. The system worked like a large band, and it served to cover other systems and the holes left by the market: he has covered the system of pensions and unemployment and the privations of the labor trade and the housing trade, and it has been effective in that. But even if we get out of those comparisons we do with the state, the data is dramatic, so that all alerts can be started. The system to guarantee incomes and in general the eucalyptic systems of social services are now exposed to danger. As it has been a precursor in the degree of state, as it has been effective in some degree, and as its range is indeed broader than it is in others, it may be thought that it is sufficient to remain in it, and to place the priors in another place, and to produce in this matter what has happened to us in other matters of knowledge. It's not fair to content yourself with saying that this member is better than the others. There are many women and men who are having a bad time, and reality shows us that the system of economic preparations under our condition is not enough for the citizens to live with dignity, and to avoid the circumstances of retirement. "Essalka is also finished and is on his way to become a specjism. New situations, new phenomena, people with great difficulties, many sufferings, and the responsibility and commitment of a society. All this puts us in the face of one of the greatest challenges of this people for the next years. To answer this challenge properly requires a profound and shared reflection about the modern social and social protection system. We must take it without fear, with courage, with seriousness, and with listening. It is necessary to rethink and renew our model against poverty and social shores. Garaian drink, egora ekonomiko konplikatu batan murgilduta ginela, RGIa martxan jarri zenean, aurrerapauso ausarta eta garrantzitsu bat eman zen Erkidego honetan. Orin gutxi irakurri dut Imanol Zuberoren artikulu batean, garai hartan Lan eta Gizarte Segurantzako Sailburu zen José Ignacio Arrietak modela martxan jartzeko erabakia was honetan azaltzen zuelela: "Today will mark in Euskadi and in the rest of the Spanish state the beginning of a different way of socially articulating a country. From that date onwards, the citizens who in the Basque Country are most suffering from the inequalities resulting from the current socio-economic fabric will begin to obtain a solidarity response from the institutions. And this has been so because Euskadi has assumed marginalization not as a problem of which it suffers, but of society, and, as such, its solution cannot be the property of anyone, but the responsibility of all." But sometimes I have the feeling that these design and moral commitments have forgotten in the way. And in the midst of the crisis in which we live, the temptations of doubting the responsibility which the Basque society had assumed in its time. It is evident that the agreement of these preparations has been broken. In the presence of such crude situations, in the presence of these obvious circumstances, these Discourses, founded on the moral teachings, no longer surprise me, but I am incomprehensible to them. It is not permitted to suspect and estimate all the persons who receive preparations. That has nothing to do with solidarity and justice. Equality, equality, right, and social justice are the fundamental principles of a advanced society. An advanced society is bound to preserve and protect its members. And precisely the policies that will ensure that are the best social policies. EH Collect can't compete with what they say is the best policy of society. The occupation, in its turn, will not end with poverty and social differences. No doubt, work has an important weight for the inclution of those women and men with the greatest difficulty, but great changes have been given in the trade, and jobs in recent years have no guarantee of security and stability, and it has no longer the capacity for your former inclusion. If the solution of these circumstances, which we have explained, remains at work, the conditions of social neglect and poverty will rise, and become visibly, and the guilt and the social resentment of those who receive them will be increased. To have the entrance to a strong protection system, and to create strong networks of persons, are as important as to form employment in the conduct of society. The efficiency of this system is also doubtful in the past few years. Even EH Collect is concerned about that. The functionary dysfunctions of the backup system are both significant and undeniable. We've got a system that's hard to handle and that hasn't caused a few problems. For 17 years I've been working with people who have lived the most infirm condition. I have known many persons who have received preparations on the way, and have known many of them on the way, who have failed to receive it, and have suffered the difficulties of these preparations. It is therefore urgent to discuss seriously all these dysfunctional dysfunctions of the RGI and the system of preparation, and in this dispute the operators (all the rest of them); the scholars, who have been injured, the unions, and the other operators,) bring them also to dispute. We have a share of responsibility, and we have to build the solution among all of us. This was the purpose of our party's amendment to the expedition of the Popula; To create a monographic discussion and to guarantee the presence of all the operators in that discussion. And in this direction it is with the Jeltzai Party, the Sociists, and together with Podemos, that we have come to an agreement, in order that we may arrive at this discussion calmly, and make our first move. And in these matters, too, I think we are making grounds for a vast agreement. The EH Collect has his hands open for the agreements on this matter. But I wanted to remind you that, even if this agreement about preparation is required to recover, this discussion about preparations is but a small part of the discussion. That it is a part that speaks of survival. But in this country, we have a more advanced pattern within the circle of social politics, and we believe that we must also have a more broad and broader view. We shall soon have to begin other discussions about the model of social services: It's about the fundraiser, the model of social services, and we're gonna have to get all of these together. It is necessary to rethink and renew our model, contrary to poverty and social neglect, in order to strengthen and strengthen the model. And on the way, whether we persuade the members of the Populagian party, and whether we are able to discuss and agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u108	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Today we begin this eleventh parliamentary term with a theme that we discussed at the last plenary session of the previous parliamentary term, on 30 June this year. My parliamentary group, Basque Socialists, hopes that this initiative will be presented this time with the intention of seeking a true consensus to consolidate and strengthen our Basque system of social protection, and that it will not be the result of an opportunistic and electoral attempt, as unfortunately happened in the previous parliamentary term. You brought a similar initiative, to warm up engines, for the 2015 municipal elections, and brought it back in May 2016, before the autonomic elections. His initiative was not silenced, it was rejected. We must flee once and for all from raising a false debate on this matter, starting from passing on to the citizen the existence of an alleged widespread fraud which is falsely attributed to immigrant groups. And we must also flee from presenting initiatives that do not go in the direction of improving the system, but on the contrary, from worsening it, without a serious prior study, without seeking consensus at any time. And that is what has happened to date with the two previous proposals put forward by the People's Party to this House. They have perverted the debate, and prevented rigorous analysis. What my parliamentary group and the Basque Nationalist group have proposed is to bring to this House the promotion of a social pact of broad consensus to consolidate the necessary funding, to maintain it, and to ensure the sustainability of the social protection system existing in our Autonomous Community. I think it's time for that. The Basque Socialists have always stated in the House that we are in favour of improving our social protection system, and we continue to maintain it today in this plenary. We haven't changed our position. It is important to remember and keep in mind that we believe in the social protection system of Euskadi. It is true, as Mrs Garrido says, that it is a system of the most advanced not only in Spain, but in the rest of Europe, but that it can be revised to be improved. We are aware that new situations of unplanned need have emerged before the crisis, and new social realities that have been presented and that for different reasons have been excluded must be taken into account. And we believe that we must apply as many control mechanisms as necessary to ensure that aid reaches only those who must receive it and not others, improving data interconnections and collaboration between institutions; enhancing inspection and control mechanisms, among others. No one should be left without help, but no one should be left with a euro that does not belong to him. We are in favour of the fight against fraud, but in all its scope: also against tax fraud, against the submerged economy, against corruption, and also against social fraud, which, with regard to the frauds I have just pointed out, represents a very small percentage. And this fraud is not eliminated by identifying the origin of the fraudster or the shammer, but by the willingness to appropriate the money of the Basques that does not belong to him, either through tax or through social aid. And it doesn't matter that these timulators are immigrants or natives of Euskadi or the rest of Spain. We must be against all frauds, whether they be from foreigners or from an ertzaine, as we have recently known. That a standard undergoes changes in its initial wording to adapt to new situations or correct deficiencies that have been identified during its implementation is normal. It is a common process, which can be produced in any rule and within our legal system in order to improve it. We must not miss this process, but we must have a deep, calm and serious debate about our model of social protection. That is why we consider it important, and we support it in plenary on 30 June this year, that the Government prepare a specific diagnostic report on all these aspects of income-guarantee income and that the technical commission attached to the Department of Employment and Social Policy is currently carrying out. In addition, the compromise amendment to which our group, the Socialist Group, with the Basque Nationalist groups, Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu, have come, sets a five-month deadline for the Government to present the outcome of this report to the Committee on Employment, Social Policy and Youth, and, on the basis of what is contained in this report, establishes the most appropriate mechanism for its study in the following month, involving institutions and all actors involved in social aid, all of which serve as a starting point for the revision of the current social protection regulation. That is a serious approach, and we must try to achieve in this process the maximum consensus among the different parliamentary groups that we defend our model of social protection. We must review our system again, eliminating all frauds and detecting the real problem. This will enable us to manage aid more effectively, both when it is granted and when it is withdrawn. The aim of our social protection is that fewer and fewer people are in need of social assistance. To this end, we must promote the job integration function of the recipients of the RGI through Lanbide, which is the instrument to carry it out, and it also requires real, not only charitable, reconciliation policies. The Basque Socialists want those who receive such aid to have the opportunity to live on a decent wage and with pensions earned after years of work. We propose to consolidate the model, and to expel the defrauders and incorporate those who do not have liquidity or have to meet the needs of their children or grandchildren beyond what is foreseen. And we propose to develop the forecast of providing training and employment opportunities for those who have been stuck. The economic crisis has increased the causes and potential for social exclusion. Employment is no longer always out of need, and child poverty has worrying levels and higher than adult poverty levels. I am therefore grateful to the various groups that have signed with us today the compromise amendment that is to be approved in this plenary, to have once again made a consensus effort. And it is surprising that Mrs Garrido and the People's Party have not made the slightest effort to seek an agreement with the other groups in the House: neither a call nor an e-mail, absolutely nothing. That makes me doubt once again the true intention pursued by this initiative. If you really want serious reform, ladies and gentlemen of the PP, add to the consensus that we have signed today by the rest of the parliamentary groups in this House, vote in favour of it, and really work with everyone in this direction. Otherwise, they will be demonstrating that they care about social aid and the improvement of the social protection system. At the request of the EH Bildu Group, we have made a final effort in this attempt to reach consensus by eliminating paragraph (b) of the initial compromise tabled by the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, which referred to the need for the social pact to also consider strengthening control mechanisms to avoid possible abuses and ensure the proper use of aid. I just hope that what you think is that the control mechanisms are good, because those control mechanisms are the ones that serve to ensure the balance of the system. Because the goal should never be to add people to the RGI, but the goal should be to get people out of the need to collect the RGI. Let us therefore go that way, seriously and working with the utmost consensus to consolidate and further improve our social protection system. The compromise amendment that we are signing today includes in a broader and more detailed way the proposals that the People's Party has taken up in its original initiative, although drafted in a much more complete way. They therefore have the opportunity to join a serious initiative to improve our social protection system. They're still in time for it. Do it at once, and stop deceiving citizens with empty and electoral proposals. That is indeed a mockery for this Parliament. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u109	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. President. And good noon to all the members of the legislative class, and to the chief officers of the department. 11th at the beginning of the legislation, the popular party has presented another proposal of changing the regulations which regulate social aids. The other speakers have said, that we have often talked of this subject during the preceding law, and our discourse has been clear, and will continue to be clear: the social protection system we have is good and progressive (and we believe that it is well to surrender it), and it was agreed in 2008. In 2011 several parts of the law were changed, as you all know. It is true that as time went on, and that we have met with situations which the law does not regard, by the probable crisis which we have suffered most; some of the men who are in a critical state have been left helpless because regulations have not been foreseen. We agree (and we agree with others) to give the right answer to new situations, that we shall have to review the law, in peace, in order to obtain the greatest consent, in order to avoid the elections, and seek for the best of the people who pass through the worst of our society. The time has come to review society as a whole. We find it more convenient to examine the whole thing than to come every Thursday with a different initiative, because we would be sitting like this. We therefore undertake the review of the system as a whole, in order to give the best possible response to the people who are going through the worst. Let us all work to improve the social protection system that we have and that has served as an instrument of social cohesion, achieving a more cohesive, just and supportive society. A system that starts from the premise of understanding poverty as an evil of society as a whole, and not just of the person who suffers it. I think it is important to remember this, because from the speech of some of the groups the opposite is apparent. A system that we want to continue to maintain in the future for the next generations, for which it is absolutely necessary to start from a realistic and possible vision. We cannot and should not leave anyone behind, but neither now nor in the future. We must achieve a sustainable and lasting model among all of us, which guarantees benefits to those who are experiencing the worst, in order to live with a minimum of dignity, provided that the requirements for access to such aid or benefits are met, as Mrs Guanche likes to say. That's why we introduced the whole correction with the Socialist Party, because we're ready to start the debate around the protection system, to re-establish and change the parts that have to be improved and improved by agreement. The 1st of our correction is that the point combines certain specific parts, which I will not read because you are all present. And the 1st section makes a bet to strengthen control mechanism, to ensure the use of third sector, and other institutions, to avoid possible abuses, and to co-operate in society. We agree to improve the controls. I'm sure we'll all be on our side with this as well. Control in every sense, not just around the RGI. But we believe this also to be a quiet answer, without altarmism, without stigmatizing specific groups. We share the need to strengthen control mechanisms; it is another aspect that needs to be reviewed when dealing with legislation as a whole. But we ask the other groups to do so rigorously and seriously, without pointing out certain groups, and less by their origin, by their origin, and, of course, without falling into any stigmatization. Paragraph 2 of our amendment refers to the work of the Interinstitutional Technical Committee, which will have to draw up a thorough and serious study to identify the aspects to be improved in the processing and management of GIR, including also the control mechanisms. This report on the specific diagnosis of all aspects related to income guarantee income has been worked on a technical commission attached to the Department of Employment and Social Policy, as also mentioned other spokespersons, in which representatives of the different levels of the public administration competent in this field, including Eudel, have participated. This committee has been working, and we think that knowing the contents of the report will be the first important step to the revision of the community's protection system. That's why we're asking him to send the report to Law immediately after it's over. Because we firmly believe that the content of this report should serve as a basis for the review and improvement of the social protection system. Let us hope to have this report in order to continue taking steps, to study and evaluate the proposals contained therein and to serve as a guide for amending the rules governing social protection. In fact, it was easy to get a great deal of harmony with the representatives of PSE, collect them together, and be grateful to them. Because, after all, these four groups consider the defence of a protective system of society, and likewise because we see that a reform of the regulations is proper to improve and strengthen the system. The eubertarians are ready for that, so we're ready to work on that line. We're asking him to bring the report that he's been doing to the law enforcement, to start with an important and elaborate revision. Let us therefore work diligently to improve the current legislation; let us seek the necessary consensus for this, achieving the best possible social protection for those who are going through the worst; all this without forgetting that we must guarantee the financing and sustainability of the system as a whole, both for the present and for the future. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u111	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Briefly, Mrs Guanche must be told that the system is not being called into question: the system is not working. The income guarantee income system – and here we were also pioneers – dates back to the late 1980s or early 1990s, and here the system has multiple shortcomings and fails in the fundamentals, which is in employability, which is why we connect economic benefits, social assistance, and put them in Lanbide to finally connect them with employability. And, of course, the best contribution to coexistence is that the system is fair, supportive, sustainable, and that it is put, as I said, at the service of employability. You mentioned a review to Mrs. Kotja's, and we'll have opportunities when we discuss the profession, that there are dysfunctions... But I think, at last, that my discourse, the discourse of the Poopular Party, in this particular subject, and your discourse, or discourse, have not many common points. We shall see when the proposal of the profession is discussed, where do you say these dysfunctions are? Look, Mrs Sánchez, we from the Group of the European People's Party are bringing initiatives that are of concern to citizens. And, given the door this House gave in the last legislature to the ILP signed by 40,000 citizens, with signatures of 40,000 citizens, and also seen that this initiative is not taken into consideration... It wasn't even open to debate! You are talking to me here about opening debates, when we have had concrete initiatives that have been able to open the debates and have not even been taken into consideration, as you have done with that initiative, silenced the voice of thousands of Basque citizens. You have cut the debate in this House to the ground, because that initiative, if it had been taken into consideration, could have been amended. He talks to me about fraud, in fact, combating fraud in all areas: in the social field, in the economic sphere, in the field..., in all areas you want. Yes, that is precisely one of the very clear issues of the People's Party. Therefore, when we held the Álava Foral Diputation, the fraud collection improved considerably. It doubled with respect to the above figures; it had a progression throughout the legislature. This must be said that the trend is now reversed, with the Basque Nationalist Party at the head of the Álava Foral Diputation. Of course, it makes me worse, because it says that they are seeking consensus and that they even came to delete a specific paragraph that talked about arbitrating mechanisms to combat irregular, abusive or fraudulent situations that may exist, that we all recognize that there are, and that we also know many of them through the media. So, it makes it worse for me. I want to say that you have lowered the agreement on your initial expectations. And again, Mrs. Arreg, a proposition, because the system has weakness and the government has also accepted weakness. Because the data has been mentioned, and the government itself, and that's where I've mentioned the statements, because it finally admitted that the system was in trouble, but it has put no proposals and solutions. Look, the best answer that can be given to people who receive social assistance, who enter the system, is that they have a door to exit, and for that we connect the perception of social assistance with employability. That is why we did the 2011 reform, which we agreed with the Socialist Party, which also tightened access requirements and increased controls. Because the revisions must be remembered that they were annual, and we put quarterly revisions. We also put in place a forecast for social welfare recipients to carry out work for the benefit of the community, which I believe is still undeveloped but, by the way, forecasts that you have not changed. The best social policy, of course, for the People's Party is employment, something that Lehendakari also told us, which was the retahíla that he used throughout the election campaign. But then we see that the first change, in an initiative that has clearly to do with employability... Because Lanbide and the end of Lanbide... If you review the relevant law, article 2 clearly states that the end of Lanbide must be the employability of unemployed persons and persons receiving social assistance. This compromise amendment, of course, I do not think it addresses the issue. I believe that it is a mockery of the thousands of citizens who are already waiting for solutions, who were already waiting for solutions in the last parliamentary term. And, of course, it is not the time for delays, but it is the time for solutions. Look, the pact in social policy has existed for many years in the Basque Country, more than twenty years. There was already a pact in 2011, which the PNV certainly did not change, and the goal is to definitely put the system in favor of employability. And I'm finishing up, Madam President. But, look, I also find some of the terms that you use in your compromise amendment, talking about "optimising", when Mr Lehendakari was talking about reforming. I mean, your speech was absolutely hollow, so the Lehendakari investiture speech, which you have now substantially lowered. Look, it's a joke to be told about five months. I understand that the adviser is new in these responsibilities; of course, Mr Toña could have passed him the draft that he told me he had in the committee but that, in the absence of the last details, he did not provide it to us, and that there had already been fifteen meetings. I think Mr. Toña could at least have had the deference of passing him that draft.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u113	Please finish, Mrs Garrido...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u114	Five months to draft! Five months to make a draft, when the diagnosis is made; a month to see the study mechanism of that draft... When are the solutions, ladies and gentlemen? Of course, we are faced with a government that still does not propose concrete measures to remedy Lanbide's many shortcomings and to definitively link the perception of social assistance with employment, which is mandated by Lanbide's law, which is what this government had to have been all over the past parliamentary term and it was what this government had to have been in this first compromise amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u115	Thank you, Mrs Garrido... Together the representative of Podemus, Mrs. Guanche, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u116	Thank you. Well, I want to start by reminding you that yesterday was Lanbide's birthday, five years since he took over GIR management. Yesterday at the gates of Lanbide there were manifestations of social groups, because still today, five years later, there are things that do not work. And, Mrs. Garrido, I didn't say I didn't agree with you that Lanbide doesn't work. I have told you that I do not agree with you in the heart of why we consider that things do not work, and, of course, how to fix it. I do not consider that this of reaching an agreement with all the parties in the House except the People's Party is to give a doorway, to silence anyone, because I also believe that you are experts in doing this, and I leave it there. It is not a matter of taste, Mrs Arregi; it is a question of whether, if you see the rules governing income guarantee income, which governs the Basque system of income guarantee, the legislation speaks of aids to refer to those which are of social emergency, which are aids which are not subjective law, and it speaks of benefits when it speaks of GIR, which are those of subjective law. That's why I was talking about benefit. Besides I like it, hey, I'm not gonna deny it. In addition to this, we propose to optimize, and to you I would very much like that word, Mrs Garrido, but to optimize in a sense of improvement. Because to optimize in the end is to empower it to reach out to all citizens, as its text said, to everyone who needs it. We also bet on a diagnosis, yes, because we understand that you have to take advantage of that expert work, that I am not going to go in if Mr Toña had it inside the drawer or outside and now it has been lost or not, but the case is that you have to start from what is already done. And starting from that we can seek a reform by talking quietly, not by seeking to draw political revenue from this reform. In any case, I do see clearly that we have to reach agreements, at least on how to discuss this. Then on how the GIR is, it's harder for us to reach agreement. In any case, why delete the paragraph? And I have to apostille this that it was... It is a bit of a piece of work: Elkarrekin Podemos and EH Bildu propose the deletion of this paragraph because we believe that linking the discourse of the RGI, from the need for reform of the RGI, to the persecution of fraud is obvious that in the system today there are control measures. These are control measures that I know of, because I have accompanied many people who applied for GIR. Control measures such as a six-monthly review of bank movements, such as control of country's entrances and exits, such as control at the point where, if a person, with that review of bank movements, spends more than sixty euros in a month, he or she may have suspended the benefit for not making responsible use of his or her resources. They are measures that control people's lives and protect them, as if they were incapacitated when they were in poverty. They are measures that involve suspensions that are not always fair, that do not always address humanity or of course the causes of what perceptive people are experiencing. They are often unjustified suspensions, and they do not always comply with the law, or, worse still, they use things that are not law as if they were. In that sense, and also speaking of fraud being below 1%, we understand that there are other things within the system that do not work, that need to be changed. Other things such as, for example, not investing in sufficient staff to provide information on GIR, or not investing in all offices in Lanbide having registry offices so that the perceptors can deliver their documentation. This violates the rights of citizens, rights that are as important as the pursuit of fraud, which we do not say should not be done when it is misused. So again we say that we wager for a reform, always a long look and a short step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Guanche. The representative of the EH Group, of the Kortah, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u118	Well, in a short time, I think my position and our team made it very clear. But I must admit that with these first moments of excitement and in my place, and when I heard Mrs. Sánchez say I thought for a moment that her turn is over and that her turn has begun by the Potian Party. And to tell you the truth, I'm shocked by using words like "treasons." Eta Imanol Zuberoren hitzak ekarriko diutut berriro ona, bainsa Imanol Zuberok esaten zuen "what jets there are everywhere". Among the recipients of the RGI, but also in the boards of directors and political groups, and in the gastronomic societies... Everywhere. But, of course, we have already shown that this is not the greatest dysfunctional system of procedure. And yes, you're right, we're right in that agreement and agreement, we and our comrades at Podemos marked that red line. And we said we didn't want that kind of phrase on a deal. That's true, perfectly true. And it's one of those elements that we're going to keep on. We can't place the discussion around the RGI around the Fude. It brings them back to the people who receive these preparations, puts them on their backs, all their guilt. And that's unacceptable. We will not take care of other dysfunctions. And that's true. It's a red line for us. And, indeed, this pretended fraud about the RGI is between 3.5%. Is that the main concern of your teams around RGI and protection around your system? I can't believe it. Ours is a project that won't leave anyone behind, and we're targeting a country that doesn't have any restrictions. And that's what we're going to do for the next initiative. And even in this discussion about the RGI, we'll take that view too. Those who create employment because they are not the best politics of society, because they are politics which value the conditions of men's life. Those who offer the ability to bring life forward, and the projects of happiness are those which allow them to advance. I'd say to Laura Garridio in social policies, when we talk about social policies, we'd rather talk about "the social version" than talk about social expense. For we often forget that we are speaking of the lives of the people, and that to carry a worthy project of life is a right to invest in it, and that it is necessary to invest in the happiness of the people. And sometimes there is a danger in this discussion of social expense, because, as a rule, when this mention of social expense is made, the discourse often concludes how excessive quantities are spent in social politics. And these, indeed, are to be avoided, in our opinion, in this legislature. I would say to those answers, I love to mention Pepe Mujica, and they speak only of those who are well filled with stomachs, who say that money is spent on social matters, and that we may not forget. And finally, at last, one question: If employment is the best policy of society, and the oriental RGI is in command, and if these orientalists manage the RGI, how can we face this challenge? How can we face this challenge to make and carry on a strong political system of society? How? I really can't find a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u119	Thank you, Mrs. Kotja's. Basque Socialists, Mrs Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u120	Look, Mrs Garrido, you have presented an initiative almost the same as the one you presented on 30 June, and if anyone, any citizen takes their exposure of that day, you have nailed practically the same today, exactly as you said on 30 June this year. The initiative could have been saved! It is that you have repeated it literally; you have not made much effort to change absolutely nothing. You have perverted this debate during the previous parliamentary term, and you know it perfectly well. The best thing about this in the previous parliamentary term is that all parliamentary groups had a consensus not to succumb to electoral temptations, as you did in the previous parliamentary term. And I hope that there will continue to be such a consensus in this legislature in order to achieve a serious debate, a serious study of what are the current realities at this time, to see the changes that have taken place with the economic crisis that has taken place all these years. And from that serious debate, from that diagnostic study that is being prepared, and from the work that has to be done here, the measures that need to be taken or the best modifications to achieve an improvement in our social protection system should come out. And I'm telling you again, today they've done exactly the same thing again too. You have not called anyone, you have not tried to approach any group; you have come here and asked: "Have you reached any agreement or anything?". You had no idea, because you haven't tried to get close to anyone. Because he wanted to come here the PP alone ("Everybody against us..."), exactly like in the previous legislature. It's not about that. Let's all start to work seriously, all in a way with consensus, seeing and studying where to make improvements to get that reform in the best way possible for all Basque citizens, but without further nonsense and without further dizziness, which is what they have been doing so far in this area. Of course, the Socialists have been involved for twenty-five years in the construction of the model of protection we have, and we have consolidated the GIR and introduced a new right, that of the labor insertion of the collectors. But the issue of employment has not yet been developed. The PP perverted the debate on aid in the previous legislature, but the PNV avoided its responsibility to revise the model in the latter legislature. We now have a chance to do so. Let us do so in a serene manner, in a serious manner and with the greatest possible consensus. I certainly invite you to join this consensus with the rest of the political parties in this House to work in that direction. We have all made an effort today to achieve that consensus to which I am referring, and that there should be no mention of the control mechanisms, which did come in the first, Mrs Kortajarena explained; that, well, they believe in those control mechanisms, but they did not want to stick to it so that we could not think that we could just focus on those control mechanisms and distort a little bit what the debate is and the need to correct the social protection system in order to improve it. Because our system is good, but it can be improved, and that's what we all have to work on. I invite you to join that consensus at once, and let us all work together to that end. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u121	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In conclusion, the Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Argrei is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u122	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Mrs. Garrido, once again the raccoon of this government's inaction, four years past without doing anything at all, everything is wrong, nothing has been done, everything is wrong... There is not a single light for you, and everything is critical. You have been told, Mrs Sánchez has told you: you have made exactly the same speech as on 30 June. Only by means of the elections to the Basque Parliament, and the citizens, which you say in this Parliament is silent, has spoken out, and precisely endorsed with your votes the work of the Government led by Mr Urkullu. Little detail that's forgotten you. Look, bringing this initiative here, if you really want to change those things that you say and repeat and reiterate that they are wrong in the rules, those frauds that you say exist, what you have to do is vote for the initiative, do it quietly, that for that we have that report, that we have said that it is a very good basis to see that diagnosis of what the situation is and what is all that can be improved. Because obviously all groups are in favour of improving the management of the GIR, of improving controls, but, as you have also been told, as you have perverted the debate on this issue (but not today, you have been doing so since the previous legislature), because, then the problem is that, in order to reach agreements sometimes we have to leave issues outside the agreement. And it's been left out of the deal because you're trying to unite fraud only with the RGI collectors, and in that we don't agree, either, and that's why we didn't have a problem removing it. Although, when it comes to better regulation, controls are also within that regulation. Therefore, what we sincerely invite you to do is to join and vote in favour of this initiative, because, if you really want to improve, what you have to do is to vote in favour, and not stay here alone talking about whether we are here silenced by citizens, that we do not want to enter into the debate. It is the time of the debate, and we told it at the end of the parliamentary term not on one, but on many occasions: that this debate was to be resumed, that it was to be done, but that it had to be done outside electoral periods. We told him and we told him again, and now he has the time to see if that will of his is so clear.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u123	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 9; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u124	Original text therefore not allowed. Next, the Basque Socialists, together the Podemos, the EH, and the Euperarians, shall vote for the intermediate corrections which have been signed by the Teams. You can vote. (stopping) After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 73; supporters 64; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstain, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-12-15.u125	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and forty-one.
