ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Tell me from the beginning that the first and seventh points have been withdrawn and the sixth is left for another. So let's start with the second point. Second point on the subject list: "Auterists of the world, a proposition of the law of EH Collectal and Sorcialists, as to the necessity of seeking out the responsible for the crimes of Fancism. Discipline and final resolution. This is the round of the group that made the proposal. Basque Socialist has the word. Mr. Unzalu, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. The Basque Socialists support in their day the lawsuit before a court in Buenos Aires for crimes against humanity against those responsible for the violation of human rights during Francoism, because we think they are crimes that they do not prescribe and over which the principle of international jurisdiction prevails. On June 20, 2013, this Parliament approved by majority support for the complaint 4591/10, which was heard by Judge María Servini de Cubría, the head of Judge No. 1 of Buenos Aires, and subsequently, in December of the same year, a delegation of the Human Rights Commission of this Parliament, we were present in the statements made to the said judge by several of the plaintiffs. Consequently, today we are going to urge the Spanish Government to comply with international human rights law and to abandon the delaying and obstructive attitude it is taking to the demands made by the Argentine court, to carry out various investigations and take investigative statements to potential perpetrators of crimes committed during Francoism. The criminal procedure for the clarification of the crimes perpetrated by Francoism, and the conviction in his case of those responsible, was opened by Judge Garzón, and the consequences of that attempt are well known in the Spanish State. We support that path because we believe that we should keep trying. We know about the difficulties and the long processes that we are engaged in, but it is a way of closing a circle for so long open that the victims of the military uprising and the subsequent dictatorship will be satisfied. But, apart from taking a stand on this issue, today I would like to claim what, from my point of view, has allowed us to face this possibility of justice for the victims. I want to demand two legislative acts. There are more, but these seem to me to be the most paradigmatic, the ones that have made progress in this line, in the development of historical memory. The first piece of legislation is Act No. 52/2007 of 27 December 2007 which recognizes and expands rights and establishes measures in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. This was one of the many impulses in the field of public freedoms that took place in the governments of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero. It will be said that this law came late, and for some it is possible to be short, but no one can deny that it was a milestone and a turning point in what to historical memory refers to. Until the adoption of this law, initiatives had been promoted by different autonomous communities in relation to historical memory activities, but it was the 2007 law that broadened the assumptions of recognition and concrete measures in different fields of research and memory recovery. Since this law was passed, and during the years in which the President of the Government was Rodríguez Zapatero, funds were authorized to exhume mass graves and to carry out localization work. More than two hundred graves were exhumed, and hundreds of families were able to recover and honor their relatives. Today, given the regressive attitude of the PP government, this work is supported by the involvement of some autonomous communities and by private initiative. Over the same period, more than 100,000 people, descendants of Spanish exiles, have been able to regain Spanish nationality. Finally, it was recognized and honoured those who at different times fought for the defence of democratic values, such as guerrilla fighters or members of the International Brigades, who were allowed to take advantage of Spanish nationality without renouncing theirs, perhaps more morally than effectively, because of the age already of those who came from all corners of the world to defend the Spanish Republic. In this way, it was possible to unite in reparation the thousands of militiamen who, together with the regular army of the Republic, fought to preserve democracy in Spain. We could also talk about the provisions contained in the law for the suppression of symbols and memorials commemorating Francoism, or the declaration of the illegitimacy of the dictatorship's courts. The content of the so-called Historical Memory Act covers many more aspects, such as personal rehabilitation and reparation recognition, or compensation to be received by victims. I think it is a good example that, if there is political will, we can move towards truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. I insist, I think that if we are talking about a lawsuit against the perpetrators of crimes during Francoism it is largely because of the pioneering attitude of a socialist government that opened up the possibilities of due recognition. The second fact to which I would like to refer is Decree 107/2012 of 12 June, a challenge that the Socialist Government of Patxi López took on in response to an initiative of this Parliament and which was carried out by the Department of Justice and Public Administration, whose adviser was Idoia Mendia. The decree introduced measures aimed at recognizing and redressing the suffering of victims of unjust suffering as a result of human rights violations between 1960 and 1978, in the context of politically motivated violence. In these years there have been almost two hundred people who have been recognized and repaired for the unjust sufferings that have occurred in our Autonomous Community. As a result of this measure, we were able to attend the first institutional and public recognition of the victims of the Franco period. Limited to the years that marked the decree, it is true, but I think that is no less significant. Both the complaint against the initiative we have on the agenda and Law 52/2007, as well as the decree of the Basque Government aimed at redressing human rights violations, and the memory of the victims of ETA terrorism, as well as any other in favour of reparation and the search for justice, must constitute a true account. Our obligation is to contribute to the development of a story that allows young generations to know their history, that they do not forget, because the forgetfulness of history is condemned by its repetition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u2	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. From EH Collect, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. The Spanish State wants to guarantee the immunity for the crimes of franchise. The Spanish institutions do not persecute criminal offenders, the Spanish institutions do not study, they do not let themselves be examined, they do not assist anyone who seeks to investigate them. And the Spanish institutions still take another step, because they interfere with any investigation. "Don't do it, they've stopped doing it." These consequences, these words, may be mine, but the Amnistia Internationale said, "El passage through the tempo, la impunidad permance." "La impunidad ha dejado a las víctimas de crímenes de Dierecho internacial en una situción de complet infensión." That's what Esteban Beltran talked, directors of the International International Internationalan State. All the charges filed in court from 2008 to 198, total 47, have been filed. He's trying to raise more accusations on the ordinary courts of justice by other ways. But now we can say, the only thing left open is the Cherila of Argentina, the only car from universal justice, that leads to that road. In this country, the author of Argentina was protected, and also protected from public institutions by René Cassin prize. In consequence of this cricket, 19 criminal offenses of franchise, 19 perparators of crime against humanity, the judges of Servini de Cubriía Argentina would like to question: Antonio Troncso, Jesús Gonzálero, Ricardo Algar, Felix Clariado, Passala Honrado, Jesús Martí, Benjamíítí, Benjamíín Solsona, Atilano del Vallale, Abelardo García, Utharina, Antonio Carro, Linio de Fuy, Charles Rey, Euscalcal, Marí, Alfuso, Halus, and Quintus, for the murder of Paulo, or the murder of St. José Shuz, and the death against Pasan, and the Mojanos. We must now say that these are criminals protected by the Spanish institutions. I start from one observation: the Spanish institutions favor, protect and shelter the criminals of Francoism. First, because they deny the investigation in ordinary courts. Secondly, because they obstruct by all means the statement of Judge Servini de Cubría on the basis of universal justice. Spain has broken that international principle "aut dedere aut judicare", that is, either you judge or you let judge; or you judge, or you extradite. He doesn't do one thing, he doesn't let the other do the other thing. Thirdly, the Attorney-General's Office has even gone so far as to lie to the Argentine court, saying that these facts are being investigated. Lie. Fourthly, the State refuses to ratify the Convention on the Non-Applicability of War Crimes and Crimes against Humanity, perhaps in order to better protect such criminals. Fifthly, the State is paralyzed by a final-point law, the Amnesty Act of 1977, as a buffer against the investigation of crimes against humanity. The UN has repeatedly called on Spain to repeal this Amnesty Act. It was done by the Human Rights Committee in 2008, during periodic reviews of the Kingdom of Spain. It was done in 2012 by the spokesman for the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Rupert Colville, who stated that Spain was obliged to repeal that law and to investigate the grave human rights violations of the past. More recently, in 2014, Pablo de Greiff, United Nations rapporteur for the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition, said Spain must judge the crimes of Francoism. In disregard of all this external requirement, the Spanish State presents itself as an autocracy, as an autarchy in the field of international law. It opposes the requirements of humanitarian agencies, the requirements of universal justice, and voluntarily isolates itself from the international community. He continued to make a biased interpretation of sovereignty: sovereignty to provide impunity for crimes against humanity; sovereignty to do what he wanted in the field of human rights; sovereignty to provide shelter for criminals of the most serious crimes against humanity. A concept of sovereignty that today no state of the world can boast. I want to give an example, in effect, when I was preparing this enterprise, an example occurred to me: Whether any one can imagine that the members of the French resistance are persecuted, arrested, tortured, tried, punished, treated by the Nazi with impunity, the Nazis with ascetics, counts, pensions for the whole life of the state, and whether anyone can imagine asking the Nazis for no responsibility or responsibility. Well, that's what's happening here. I know there's a difference because the Nazis lost the European wars and fascists, the Nazis here, they won the war here and made a legal line for their protection. Today PP is hiding himself behind this legislation, and he hides behind it the criminals of Francism under the protection of this legislation. It is true that the antifascist, the anti-frankists, should be released after having once pursued, imprisoned, tortured, and punished. Use a law to let fascists go, chase, arrest, judge, and not punish. This is the double standard established by this law, the division established by the law, and the injustice established. Today PP is going to condemn franchise, we'll probably hear that, but it'll stop him from taking any interest in Francism. It will prevent him from investigating the crimes of Francism in order that the rights of the victims should be established as true and justice. In fact, PP will force all the impergency of the fans. Today, we have two to do: To open the roads, to pay the debt of fascists with justice, and to extend the roads to the combatants against franchise, to pay the debt of this society with the victims of franchise. I suppose those are the very essence of this initiative which we bring with us today with PSE and EAJ, and which are the commitments we are to confirm here today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u4	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. The other proposal, which we propose to-day, is only the consequence of another, which we accepted on the 20th of June, 2013. On that day the parliament accused Franco's military insurrection in 1936, and accused the dictatorship after 40 years. It wasn't for the first time, but it was all about another nod. The fifth and sixth points of the proposed law were as follows: "From the very thread of this chunciation the law of the Basque Council represents its support and loyalty to the 4591/10 smokers of the First Court of the Argentina's Republic of the Republic of Buenos Aires, the managers of geneozidium and the crimes committed in Frichism against the crimes against the human race, María Servini de Cuban." And 6: "Eus Consultatoria encourages society to protect this clergy against Frichism, who were complied with infrancism, and who were involved in his family's cymbals, or accused dictatorship, and agreed with the cymbal against crimes and criminals." Three years has passed since this agreement had been taken, and from that time forward Judge Servini has made several attempts to lead his investigation forward. In 2014 he came to take the statement to victims. On the other day, here at the Human Rights Committee, in the scene of which the lords of the Chains, in order to be able to carry forward their work, were well explained what a labyrinth they had lived in, both of the victims and Judge Servini. In February this year, the Argentina court sent a plea to the Spanish Government on purpose of questioning 19 people in the inputs. The judge of Argentina has received no answer from the government or from the national audience. In this way, Judge Servini and the legal team of Buenos Aires have been obliged to abandon their journey to carry out these duties. He has renounced the fundamental rules of rights and liberties which the institutions of Spain have signed, and he is plainly hampered by the judicial investigation of the victims of franchise. Both the public powers of Spain, and some political parties, even the law of Spain, the Constitution, and the Amnistic Act of 1977, have made it a pretence to justify this inconvenience. Universall Contribution of Human Rights, and the Internationall Testament of the Civil and Polytic Rights, and the Word of the Human Rights of Europe: From the international law point of view, according to the agreement in Vienna, the States which are the signs of them will not be able to consider what the regulations of their internal rights are to be regarded as a justification for not fulfilling a treatise. Furthermore, the Internationall Covenant concerning the Civil and Politic Rights signed by the State of Spain in 1997. "If there is inconsecration between law and covenant, the inward justice or practice must be changed, that the rules which establish the fundamental guarantees of the treaty may be fulfilled." He says it out loud and clear. Therefore, the application of international human rights law is a legal obligation for the powers of the State, and this requirement is also applicable to judges and magistrates; it is being repeatedly violated even by the Supreme Court itself, which, in its judgement 111/2012 of 27 February, declares that Spanish judges should not investigate the crimes of the Civil War and Francoism, and does so by relying on the statute of limitations of offences, the death of persons alleged to be guilty, the Amnesty Act, and the Historical Memory Act itself. However, and three years later, on 5 January 2009, the United Nations Human Rights Committee reminds the Spanish State that crimes against humanity, such as enforced disappearances, are imprescriptible, and that amnesties relating to serious violations of human rights are incompatible with the pact signed by the Spanish State (mandatory rule in the State itself); that enforced disappearances must be investigated until the fate of the victim is known. The State, as we have said before, cannot and should not invoke provisions of its domestic law as justification for non-compliance with a treaty, especially when it itself, the State itself, has signed the said treaties and expressly reflects their compliance in its Magna Charter. In the case of Spain, the Spanish Constitution does so in articles 10 and 96. More specifically, article 10.2 states that "The rules relating to fundamental rights and freedoms recognized in the Constitution shall be interpreted in accordance with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the international treaties and agreements on the same matters ratified by Spain". The behaviour of the Spanish public authorities, in short, has neither legal nor ethical justification nor from the point of view of democratic coexistence. It should have been the Spanish justice that investigated the facts and came to guarantee the rights of the victims, in truth, justice and reparation. But, if not, if Spanish justice does not want or cannot do so, why refuse to respond to the request of Argentine justice? why put sticks in the wheel of justice and reparation to these victims? For this reason, the proposed law presented by the Basque Socialist groups, Euskal Herria Bildu and Basque Nationalists denounces this obstructive attitude of the Spanish Government to meet the various requirements made to date for conducting investigations and making statements to potential perpetrators of crimes committed during the Franco dictatorship. He urged the Spanish Governments to respect and assume international human rights law, as well as the recommendations of the United Nations Human Rights Committee. It is in cases like these – it is evident – where the interest of the Spanish Government of the People's Party in ending universal justice in Spain is understood, one of the biggest mistakes of the last legislature in the General Courts in terms of fundamental rights. In Euskadi we are clear that peace and coexistence cannot be built without memory, that all victims have the right to truth, justice and reparation. It is never too late to guarantee rights that are universal and imprescriptible. The conduct of the Spanish Government has no justification. but unfortunately he has not done so, and, if that were few, he is subject to the work of Judge Servini. From Euskakia it is necessary for peace and community, and we must remember, among all this, the irretrievations of human rights caused by franchise. We are in time to confess the evils that have been done, and all the victims have a right to justice, truth, and observation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u6	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u7	Egun on. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. This is a matter that we have already spoken about in this House, which has already spoken about, and on which we have all explained our positions. We have done so in various initiatives (of 7 June 2013, presented by these three groups, of 28 May 2015, also in relation to franchising...), and were debates where the positions and positions became clear. This is one more step you are taking, but the answer in our case must remain the same. The Amnesty Act of 1977, from our point of view, was not a forgetfulness or a pardon; it was a democratic solution in the context of a political transition that for us is a reference to coexistence and, above all, a reference to condemnation of dictatorship and a commitment to non-repetition. An amnesty law (someone spoke of "made to measure..."), well, an amnesty law made to measure different options and political parties: made to measure the UCD, the Communist Party, the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, the Basque Nationalist Party, etc., etc. Tailored by those parties, and approved and decided in Courts by those parties. For something they approved it, indeed. We want to continue to demand the agreements of the Spanish transition, among which, as assumed by the democratic political forces as essential, the Amnesty Act of 1977, which has served to substantiate numerous judicial decisions, and which today continues to do so; that it is an existing law, integrated into the Spanish legal system, and, as such, has legal effects that any political leader must recognize and assume, and any judicial leader. And if it is a member of the Government, or if it is the Government of Spain, especially. It is a law that bases its proceedings, and logically a member of the Government has to base, like the courts, its proceedings in law and in law. My group fully agrees with relevant issues, in any case, such as knowledge and compensation to the victims of Francoism. We have already said that in other parliamentary debates, we have already spoken it. Also according to the performance in relation to the study, the historical memory, the truth of what happened and their knowledge. And that is why we have always valued, we have considered it important, we will also transfer it – we have transferred it in our amendment to the whole – the studies, the actions of the university, the scientific societies, who work for that memory and for that truth. Mr Unzalu has also referred to the work that has been done, and I believe that they are to be valued and are to continue to boost and support them. We have said this on many occasions and we say it in the amendment to the whole of the initiative we are discussing. Of course, we condemn all the human rights violations that have occurred in this country, and of course among them are those of the dictatorship, and therefore we sympathize with all the victims and so many innocent victims of Francoism, dictatorship and the Civil War itself. And at the same time we defend and must respect and defend the rule of law, the laws that govern us and the basic agreements reached in our democratic history. That is a principle of action for us, and in that sense we do so. Of course, you will also understand that we cannot support an initiative such as this, that the Spanish Government should be denounced by this Parliament for complying with the law and for calling for compliance with court decisions. That is why it is clear that we cannot support this initiative. We are not going to denounce, of course, the Government of Spain, understanding how we understand that it applies the legal system and that it acts on judicial decisions in relation to the issues you deal with. Also ask the government what they ask for in the third point... We understand that the Government is already doing so, and this is demonstrated in effect and on an ongoing basis in its international human rights commitments. We understand that all the governments in Spain have done so and that they also do so scrupulously today. And it's his will, as he said. As in everything, in fact, it is not infallible, and there may have been problems or there may have been defects, but, in any case, the purpose of the Government of Spain, like that of autonomous governments – we know and understand it – is that compliance and compliance. He has said that, he has made reference to that, and we are convinced of the same. We have already recently discussed in this House the reports of the Special Rapporteur and the legal and political issues he raised, which the Government of course did not elude. The Spanish Government did not evade them, but answered them and founded them also in the proceedings of the Spanish justice system, in the laws, in the courts, in the spirit of the transition. And in that regard, there were references and answers, which, like everything else, are debated and applied. In addition, I have to say one of the issues relating to the reports of the Special Rapporteurs, who was perfectly prepared to take them into account and to develop them in the legal and legal fields as far as possible. That's also a commitment, that's also there. And we spoke in this House at the time of Greiff's report and the position of the Government of Spain. It is a subject that is already known, and that we have already talked about. In short, it is logical that we cannot vote in favour of this initiative, which seeks to denounce the Government of Spain. We are not going to vote in favour, because we do not want to denounce the Government of Spain, we want to support it, and in that sense we have tabled an amendment of the whole whose first point, yes, it is true that it is similar to its own: "The Basque Parliament reaffirms its solidarity and recognition to all the victims generated by the Spanish civil war and the Franco dictatorship". We speak on the second point that "The Basque Parliament expresses the historical importance of the Amnesty Act of 1977 and respects the decisions of the Spanish courts in application of it". Well, it's a basic, first-rate law thing. Third, "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain to remain in compliance with international human rights law and to take into account the recommendations of the United Nations in this regard". And as a fourth point we speak of "the Basque Parliament values and supports the activities of research and knowledge of the truth carried out by the departments and institutes of history of our universities" (and other universities) "and by the scientific societies that have worked in the field of the aforementioned historical context". Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u8	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. A group that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u9	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr. Counsellor, Mr. Lehendakari. Let us review, albeit briefly, the historical facts, and make a brief chronology of what has happened during the last decades in Spain, from the fascist uprising, the dictatorship, the crimes and the absence of freedoms, the struggle for the freedoms of a part of Spanish society, the transition, but also the Amnesty Law, the Historical Memory Law, and in recent times the claim of some to bring grudges for mere partisan interests. The coup d'état of July 1936 was a military uprising directed against the Government of the Second Republic which emerged from the February elections of that year, and whose partial failure led to the Spanish Civil War and, defeated by the Republic, the establishment of the Franco dictatorship, which remained in power in Spain until its death in 1975. There has therefore been a fascist and anti-democratic uprising against a legitimate government, which has been repeatedly condemned by this House. And from there, of course, what we know: The cruel repression, the violation of basic rights and of citizens' freedoms, the dictatorship, the thousands of dead and retaliated, who have all our consideration, solidarity and support, and also the struggle for democratic freedoms and the commitment against the dictatorship and for the democracy of thousands of Spaniards. The Amnesty Act was adopted in 1977. An important political, legal and public opinion sector, where UPyD is located, continues to regard it as an achievement of democratic opposition to Francoism, as well as as as a way to overcome the long confrontation suffered by the Spanish since 1936. We should know today exactly what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party thinks of the Amnesty Act; if it really thinks that legal reforms should be introduced, or even the repeal of the Amnesty Act itself. If this is indeed the case, if the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party thinks exactly this, that the Amnesty Law must be repealed, I believe that the most conducive scenario for such a thing to arise is the Congress of Deputies. If the Socialist Party thinks this, I think it should speak or engage in dialogue with the main Spanish political parties to propose and explain it to it. It is a matter that is relevant enough for us not to debate in the Congress of Deputies. So what we are asking of the Socialist Party is to clarify its position on this issue. I would like to say that I do not think it is very serious to call for the repeal of the Amnesty Act in an autonomous parliament, and, finally, rather regrettable, on the other hand, to do so by EH Bildu. I believe that this requires a much deeper debate, and that the Socialist Party in particular clearly sets out its position on this issue. The truth is that already in July 2011 the Galego Nationalist Block presented in the Congress of Deputies a proposal to repeal the Amnesty Law, and the proposal was rejected by a large majority formed by various political ideas. The result was eight votes in favour, 320 against, and eight abstentions. The Spanish Socialist Workers' Party stressed that the law was the way to overcome civil wars, and that oblivion was reciprocal for both sides. This is what the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party said. Historian Santos Juliá recently wrote that the Amnesty Law of October 1977 wanted to symbolize the beginning of a new era of harmony that some seem to want to break. The past was brought to the present, but with the intention of closing it down and closing a long stage of history. To the question of whether the law was the result of an amnesia or cause of a forgetfulness, he answers this historian who in no way imposed a tyranny of silence, and points out his objectives, the objectives of that Amnesty Law: to remove all ETA prisoners from prison, and in return to extend amnesty to authorities, officials and police. Arzalluz in 1977 pointed out that everyone's past had to be amnestyed, in order to build a new country in which we can all live. "A great solemn act that forgave and forgotten all the crimes and barbarities committed by the two sides of the civil war before it, in it and after it, until today," in the words of Julio Jáuregui, representative of the Basque Nationalist Party. It is also worth recalling the words and speech of the communist deputy Marcelino Camacho on 14 October 1977. He said: "How could we reconcile those who had been killing each other, if we did not erase that past once and for all?". "Amnesty" – he said "is a national and democratic policy, the only consequent that can close that past of civil wars and crusades. We want to open the way to peace and freedom, we want to close one stage and open another." Since 2007 we have, the Historical Memory Act is in force, which we claim and support. A law providing for measures for public administrations to facilitate, within the framework of their powers, to those who so request, tracing and identification tasks. A law that extends the amounts of compensation received, that declares the illegitimacy of the Francoist courts, that establishes measures to eliminate symbols of Francoism, or that extends the possibility of recovery to the grandchildren of those who lost Spanish nationality in exile. A law that serves to do justice, to compensate and to investigate, and that recognizes the right to personal and family memory. A law that we must and want to put into value, and also call for it to continue to be developed and to have a greater scope, route and impact than it has had in recent years. It can also be said that over the past decades there have been dozens of decrees passed to restore the rights of the reprisals, from the military who fought alongside the Republic to the so-called children of war, to those who lost their status as public officials. And also in Euskadi there have been certainly interesting actions, of justice, which we support. What we are now faced with – we understand – is in conflict with the Amnesty Law. EH Bildu, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Socialist Party propose that we support the Argentine war against Francoism. I have no doubt about the good intentions of some of the signatories who want to seek justice and that those responsible for such crimes will pay for it, or at least be pointed out. I have no doubt about some of the signatories, but we understand that there are legal doubts here that are more than obvious, and that in particular this proposal is clearly in conflict with the Amnesty Act. On the other hand, as an Asturian deputy just two months ago recognized in the Parliament of Asturias, when such an initiative was debated there, socialist spokesman Fernando Lastra explained that if his group supported the proposal it was for what it contains of emotional and respect, but insisted that what the country needs is agreement and move on. This Asturian deputy also pointed out the difficulties with the proposal for legal reasons, due to the Amnesty Act of 1977. The socialist deputy of Asturias expressly said this in a recent debate, in particular on 17 March 2016. And he also said this socialist deputy (there are good socialist deputies in Asturias, I have a clear record of this): "This matter cannot be used as a bold weapon from some Democrats to others". All this was said in this Parliament, and that is what I raised in this debate. I say, some arguments can be shared (justice must be done, victims must be compensated, those guilty of such crimes must be pointed out), but I believe that the Socialist Party should do what it stands for in relation to the Amnesty Act, and, by the way, if it shares the words of the Asturian Member. Of course, we condemn the military uprising, the Franco dictatorship and the crimes committed by it in the decades during which the regime remained and exercised its tyranny. We support the victims, their recognition and the historical truth. There is no doubt about this. What I sincerely believe is that this initiative clashes with the Amnesty Law, beyond including, as I say, claims that we can share. In that regard, we are certainly closer to the amendment put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u11	Thank you. Mr Maneiro, what I can assure you is that when we have signed this initiative, we do not want to use it as a bold weapon against any democrat. That's as clear as you've been since minute one. We signed this initiative, first – and I told you in my first speech – because we agreed with the complaint that had been opened in the first court in Buenos Aires. And precisely you, and alluding to that Member, to that colleague of mine from Asturias, said that there are legal doubts. What we believe is that when a judge of a court in Buenos Aires opens this complaint, she assumes this complaint, it is because she is making the international jurisdiction over human rights prevail over the Spanish particular legislation. And we are based on that, and that is why our attitude to the Amnesty Law is not based on what we have to do about it, but rather we think that international jurisdiction prevails. And we think that before a court in Argentina we must cooperate, and that is what we are saying here today. We are not arguing, and, if you read the proposal that we are going to pass, in no case are we talking about the Amnesty Law. There is talk of the prevalence of international human rights jurisdiction. Various acts have already been explained, since the United Nations Council, since the United Nations Human Rights Council, which urges the Spanish Government to respect that jurisdiction. And what we want to do is simple and simply that. Why? Because indeed also, apart from reparation – and I have long referred in my first intervention to the Historical Memory Law – we believe that the criminal way to judge and to point out, as you said, those guilty of those crimes must prevail. And as we think, I insist, that it is the international jurisdiction that must prevail, that is why we support this Argentine dispute. And we have not been involved, neither in the proposal nor in the debate, in what is the Amnesty Law. And with regard to the Historical Memory Law, Mr. Barrio and yourself have somehow exalted that Historical Memory Law. What I am going to say to Mr Barrio is that we agree that it must be developed, but if a law like this is to be developed, we must put funds in it, we must put budget lines in it, for it to be developed. Look, in a country that is the second in the world in missing, there have been 150,000 missing, a country in which two thousand and peak pits are listed, of which – before I mentioned it – in the period of Rodriguez Zapatero there were 200, and in the total period there are about 390, there are still many pits to exhume, there is much research to do and it is not done. And this has stalled in the last four years of the PP government, because not a single euro has been put in the general budgets to favour both public and private partnerships and initiatives, so that this work can continue. That is what we want to do, the two ways: the criminal way, supporting us in international law, and the administrative way, which allows us, as I said before, the Law of Historical Memory. But, I insist, for that law to develop, for that law that you have such a good impression of, you have to put euros in the budget headings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u13	Thanks again. It is obvious that we have differences between the signatures, that we have different points; but this does not prevent it, it does not prevent us from reaching a middle course. We're against the Amnisistic Act and we have to say it that way. It's true that we don't reveal that in the initiative that we're bringing in, but I want to make that clear. When I was working on this team, I was thinking of a television series, "Cazdos de Nazis," because I thought the Nazi hunters were inspired. In this series we see that wherever they are in a mild retreat, or where they are lodged in refuge, those Nazis are persecuted to deliver into the hands of justice, and sometimes exempt from the limits which the law imposes. In this series, we see the Nazis hunt, but here we will see whether the Nazis or fascists will protect themselves. I find the amendment tabled by the People's Party to be profoundly contradictory, because the historical importance of the Amnesty Act cannot be expressed and, at the same time, I urge that the recommendations of the United Nations in this area be taken into account, when precisely the United Nations, all these community bodies, all these international human rights bodies, are either calling for the abolition of that Amnesty Act or at least removing the obstacles that it is imposing so that justice, recognition and reparation for victims can be put into practice. They invoke a law of 1977, a pre-constitutional law, the last law on the closure of Francoism, and I am not going to go in and talk about the circumstances of that time, but about the circumstances of today and what exactly has been the development that led to the application of that law. A law that, indeed, brought out of prison anti-fascist fighters, anti-Franchist fighters, but not before they had been persecuted, that they had been tortured, arrested, tried without guarantees, punished, in some cases even with the punishment without return of being shot or executed. At the same time, this law is being implemented without persecution, without detention, without trial, without investigation, without prosecution of these fascist criminals. You tell us to move on, but yet those freedom fighters are asking us to work in two directions. A first to better recognize them. And that is why they have also appeared in the Commission on Human Rights to express their expectations and aspirations about that law of victims of human rights violations that we are dealing with. And also, second, for the perpetrators to be brought to justice. And that is precisely what the PP position, it seems that accompanied by UPyD, want to close the door. You invoke the Amnesty Law and it seems that you want us to put an interpretation of attachment to the law, into a legalistic reading, and I don't believe it, because I always think that every time a law is invoked, before that law there is a cause, which is the one that is intended to defend through that law. A law is not invoked if there is no motivation or a previous position to defend, through that law. And I understand what the cause is, because I believe that what you do is use that law to defend the criminals of Francoism, because you share with them an identical ideological pose, because you consider them to be of the same trunk or of the same political sensibility. You were very angry in an earlier situation in which I accused you of phalangists. Or correct: they were not so angry, but it was Mr. Maneiro who marked the way for them to make an angry protest. Today they come to defend those perpetrators of crimes against humanity, today they come to give refuge to these Francoist criminals. You will see where they remain, but today I confront them with one circumstance: to remain alone as accomplices of those franchising criminals, or to ask, together with this House, to make themselves available to justice. Yours is the decision.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u14	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Eubertarians, Monsieur Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u15	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature. Well, I think I have made clear in my first speech two aspects that are fundamental in this debate. On the one hand, the imprescriptibility of certain offences, and, on the other, the impossibility of invoking domestic legislation in order to breach the provisions of international covenants signed by the Spanish State itself. Therefore, even if the reference to the Amnesty Law was made in good faith, it would not make sense. But I believe that the interpretation, the allusion made by some parties, and the interpretation of the Spanish public authorities of the Amnesty Law, is a legal perversion and a moral perversion. The spokesman for the Basque Nationalist group in Congress recently said, in a debate similar to this one on the Argentinean lawsuit, that the Amnesty Act was an achievement taken from power at the time, driven by the democratic sectors in the Spanish State, which had to overcome not a few resistances, which came..., which tried to repair in part, in part, the injustices and serious violations of rights made since Franco's legality. That it was also legality. It wasn't legitimacy, but it was legality. And in the 77's the legislators – and here reference was made to several speeches or words uttered in those debates in the Congress of Deputies – did as they all did at every moment, they did what they could in the year 77, in a society that came out of a dictatorship of forty years and protected at that time by an army that had endured..., had driven and endured that dictatorship. He said, the Amnesty Law, the interpretation of the Amnesty Law, the application of the Amnesty Law that has been made, has been twisted shamefully, to the point of violating the spirit he intended. The legislator intended to protect those whose rights were violated, I repeat, from legality. And it does so, unfortunately, with the opposite aim now, to protect those people who had responsibilities in the Franco dictatorship and who committed the crimes, whose victims came to repair the Amnesty Law. The Amnesty Act of 77 did not want to be the Final Point Act of 86 in Argentina, nor the Obedience Due Act of 87, which, by the way, were subsequently corrected, re-corrected with the Menem Government, and at the end brought to its just situation, and to the situation to which we owe, to which must come all societies that have been shaken by conflicts of this kind, to that of truth, through the action of President Kirchner. It was not intended to be a final law; it was intended to restore the rights of those arrested at the time by the Franco dictatorship, not to protect the rights of the Francoists who had imprisoned them. Ladies and gentlemen, covering the truth, putting on a blanket about what happened, can serve to supposedly lighten a duel, but it only serves for a moment. It is a mirage, it is nothing more than a mirage, because in the end the duels that have not been done well always end up coming out. And that is something that we in this Parliament are convinced of, and we have signed numerous pronouncements in that regard, in relation to our recent past, with the terrorist activity of ETA, with the victims, etc. Those same principles, that same spirit must serve to close all the violent episodes that we have suffered and to repair all the victims. Because, whether the time has passed or not, there are victims who continue to claim their rights, who still do not find their relatives, who continue to be family members of enforced disappearances, and who have the right, internationally protected and which should be collected by Spanish law, to the principles of truth, justice and reparation. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u16	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u17	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr. Iturrate, and we agree. We agree with the analysis, with the study, with the deepening, with the knowledge of the truth, with the history, with the scientific deepening in it, and with doing so as we support it in relation to these issues. And we have already said that, right?, and even in our amendment to the whole it is also reflected. But I want to remind Mr Iturrate of the parliamentarian who said: "Amnesty was simply forgetfulness, amnesty for everyone." Addressing the Members he said: "If we are the representatives and the channel of this society, we must also be the example to the same with our mutual forgetfulness." "I forget" he even said; it went beyond many others: with forgetfulness. We do not want to forget, but we want justice in relation to what was that Amnesty Law. Mr Arzalluz said: "We must make sure that it descends to society, in fact, that this campaign of forgetfulness is widening, that it is becoming body and heart, because it is the only way that we can give our hand without resentment, to hear each other with respect." And he concluded his speech by saying: "Lords, amnesty is a path of reconciliation, but it is also a path of democratic credibility." Mr Arzalluz said that in that session. I think they're wise and good words, and construction words. Construction of a legality that also continues to work today and that continues to bring us closer to the Spaniards. I think it's clear, right? You have to remember that, too. And I thank Mr Maneiro for his provision on our compromise amendment, and I also thank him for the quotations. Some had them, but, well, he has also made the memory in his intervention of some of the issues reflected. Mr. Unzalu, of course we're talking... Similarly, the Amnesty Law is not said, but when you talk about the things that you talk about in the proposal, in the non-law proposal, you talk about the Amnesty Law. Because, of course, you denounce the Government, but it is that the Government of Spain on the basis of which it makes its decisions, in relation to these issues, is in an existing law, and in the judicial decisions resulting from that law. And then the Government of Spain, the Minister of Justice or the entire Government, what it does is to apply that legality in relation to judicial decisions and in relation to the Amnesty Act. And that's why you can't report a government. A government cannot be denounced for its compliance with the law and for its compliance with judicial decisions. You're committing an injustice once again with this kind of... You confuse the issues. In other words, they should have used another terminology in relation to this issue. And we, of course, will always be in favour, as we have said, of reparation measures for the victims. Of that, always in favor. We will be, we are, and we will continue to practice it anyway. Then the provocations came. Then, afterward, the provocations of Mr. Arzuaga have arrived... Of course, it is easy for Mr Arzuaga to insult a political group to a constitutional parliamentary group that moves in democratic laws. Well, it's easy to disqualify him. He spoke of Francoist ideological pose, before he also spoke of phalangism... Well, it's the usual, it's the usual. Look, you also spoke, in the disqualification of the Amnesty Law, you spoke as pre-constitutional, or non-constitutional. No, look, let's see. It was the foundation of the Constitution. That is, nothing more and nothing less, was the foundation of the Constitution, the Amnesty Act itself. You will also insult the Amnesty Law, disqualify it, whatever you want, but it is not a pre-constitutional thing: it was the foundation of the Constitution. And you say something we hadn't said. That we said we'd move on. No, no, No, no. We want the truth, the memory, the recognition, the reparation. To go over page no; but to understand that what we have adopted in our legal system, what the parliamentary groups have approved in that historic legislature, is the Amnesty Act, and that it is fully in force, and that no group in this House that has representation in the Courts has called for repeal or promoted it or found sufficient majority. In that sense, it is. And he was also talking about Nazi hunters. Mr. Arzuaga talking about Nazis! Look, the real Nazi hunters in Spain have been the Civil Guard in their fight against the political referents you run and defend. Those have been the real Nazi hunters. And, of course, and by the way, let's see if he asks his friends to work with justice to investigate those more than 300 unsolved crimes by his ETA friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u18	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u19	Thank you, President. Mr Unzalu, Mr Iturrate, even Mr Lehendakari, Mr Egibar, Mr Pastor, Mrs Idoia Mendia, will you remain silent? Are you going to remain silent in the face of the accusations that we have received from two parliamentary groups in this House? Are they going to talk about the crimes committed by the Francoism of decades ago, and are they going to allow a person who has never condemned ETA to define the political groups of the People's Party and UPyD as helpers of criminals, like criminals, defenders of criminals? Will you allow this, gentlemen, that you are democrats? And you have also signed an initiative with whom you have insulted us again, and I find it regrettable that you have not asked for the voice and the word to have immediately broken this initiative, or at least to have said that it is unacceptable and unacceptable that Mr Arzuaga has defined us as friends of criminals, or as defenders of criminals. Are you going to allow Mr Arzuaga to thus define the members of the People's Party who for decades faced ETA, and some of his councillors were killed by the terrorist gang? Are you going to keep quiet? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Mr. Iturrate was talking about moral perversion. This is a real moral perversion, that there is a member of a parliamentary group who has never condemned ETA to insult two democratic political parties, and the others remain silent. That is the silence that remains of Basque society. That cowardice does remain in Basque society. You are representatives of the citizens. What you should have said is that that is unacceptable and that you are not going to allow it, and that you even immediately break the agreement you have signed with EH Bildu. I have tried to make serious political and legal arguments, and both Mr Barrio and a servant have done so with the utmost respect, undoubtedly acknowledging that there were victims during the Francoism, that there was a military uprising that we condemn, that carried out horrific crimes. And we have also remembered the Amnesty Law. The Amnesty Law did not pass UPyD, you passed it. You approved it! Do you agree with that Amnesty Law that you passed, Socialist gentlemen? Because Mr Unzalu in principle said no, that there was no question of the Amnesty Law. Well, in November Mr. Pedro Sánchez raised the possibility of repealing the Amnesty Act. Except the media lied, so it was picked up. With which, just like you have to be clear. But if this isn't important, Mr. Unzalu! If this is not important! The important thing is what I told you before: the important thing is moral cowardice, silence. That is the shameful thing; that Mr Arzuaga insults the members of the People's Party as "friends of criminals" and you remain silent. This is really embarrassing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u20	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Now that the discussion has ended, we will vote for the Eubertarians, the original text of EHG and the Socialist Basques as well as the rest of the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the opposites 10; the whites, 0; abstainments, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u21	As a result, the original text has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "The other proposition of the U.S.P.A.P.P.P.P.S.P.E.P.S.P.E.E.A. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, is your word, in order to present and defend the enterprise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u22	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. As for the popular party on this subject, the rating of the eucalyptus brings a proposition to this legislature. IX. Of the preceding Laws. in the law of the Eighth. in the law and the Seventh. In the law we have introduced these initiatives in public offers to revise the rating of the eucalyptus. We present the proposition of the rating given to the Basque in public offers, and we may more particularly say that the rating of the Basque is detected in two areas: on the one hand, when different employments are put into their proper date of necessity; and on the other hand, when the eussa is valued as merit, compared with other merit. And here the problem appears, for, according to the score given to the eucaia, it is a highly exaggerated rating, and having a degree of knowledge of eucatitude, that this knowledge of the euca is quite decisive. On the initiative of the People's Party, which I rise today to defend this rostrum, we ask for a number of things, which we have repeatedly asked for throughout other legislatures. On the one hand, we ask for a review of the assessment, of the score given to the euskera when assigning the linguistic profiles of each place, and, on the other hand, we also ask for a review of the euskera score in relation to the score that is also given to other merits, such as training and experience. And we also ask that the bag be respected in the list of substitutions, and that there be no displacements for the fact of not knowing Basque. We know that these situations are taking place, we know that a platform has even been set up with which we have been gathered, and we have been brought with us this demand and this problem, which we believe should be clearly remedied if we are to guarantee the principle of equal access to public service. The euskera, therefore, the knowledge of the euskera, is not a simple plus, but has clearly become a determining factor in accessing a job in Osakidetza, and this can be made clearly also extendable to the whole public administration. This fact, this situation that, as I say, is repeated public offer of employment after public offer of employment, we also saw it, we corroborate it in the last public offer of employment 2014-2015, and we have also presented this initiative so that the Government, this Government, has announced the call for a new OPE, although it is true that it will possibly materialize by the next government. But he said that this situation is generating a clear discomfort in the seekers of a place in Osakidetza, in the public administration in general, who see how their chances of reaching a position, in a scenario in addition to some job uncertainty... Although we are also in an incipient economic recovery, no one escapes that the offer of public employment has its appeal, because of the security it can give in a person's life to be able to take a fixed place in the public administration. And that's why I say it generates discomfort, because they see how their possibilities, OPE after OPE, are marred in relation to the possibilities that other aspiring candidates have that they can believe a certain level of Basque, when we see that the knowledge of Basque, a PL2, is valued at eighteen points, and is valued more than a doctorate, or is valued even more than all the scientific knowledge or scientific work that any professional who presents himself to a public offer of employment can do. We therefore believe that there is a need to ensure and that there is a need to guarantee what is now not guaranteed and what has not been guaranteed for a long time in the public offers of employment in the administration called by the Basque Government, the principle of equal access to public service. And that clearly the knowledge of the euskera, or the need to believe it at a certain level and with that score, cease to be discriminatory. We defend from the People's Party, and you have horrendous defend you dugu, orika bat egon behar from the Basqueraren Egyptian balorazioa denean eskaintza publiko deberdinetan. We have always defended the need to seek that balance, that balance between the evaluation of the euskera as merit in relation to other merits, such as experience, vocational training, training... And that this allocation and that demand that we make of the knowledge of the Basque is also appropriate to the sociolinguistic reality of each area. Because nobody escapes that it is not the same an outpatient clinic located in a village of Rioja Alavesa, as can be Labastida, or an outpatient clinic located in a village of the deep Gipuzkoa as can be Oiartzun. In the last parliamentary term, in 2009, specifically on 20 October 2009, an agreement was reached in this House between several groups (the Basque Socialist Party, UPyD and the People's Party) which we consider very important at the time, and we also consider it very important, in which the Department of Health was urged to carry out this proper assessment of the knowledge of Basque as merit in future OPEs, so that this balance between the corresponding score and the rest of the merits would be sought. The Basque Government was also urged to take all necessary measures and actions to ensure the principle of equality, equal access to public service. We must clearly say that the value given to the Basque in several public offers has become a problem, and this is reality, and this must be admitted by a government which encourages such politics. And clearly that excessive assessment, which has made the euskera decisive, and discriminatory in accessing a post in the public administration, has become a problem, very clearly, for many aspirants who, as I said earlier, see their possibilities clearly undermined. We believe that it is necessary, and that we must be compatible, and we must make it compatible to move forward progressively in the care in Basque (and have no doubt about it), to move forward progressively in that care in Basque in Osakidetza, in the Public Administration, since we are obviously in an autonomous community with two official languages, but that at the same time we must make it compatible (because, if not, it becomes clear against) with attracting and retaining the best professionals and thus being able to continue offering, offering quality care. Because, otherwise, in the end, we lead the good professionals, having an obstacle to being able to stay in our autonomous community, to look for more attractive options, and also, since they are good professions and have an accredited experience, a training, undoubtedly have options. And also, of course, that here too good professionals can come to work in Euskadi. A community that we assume is an open society, a receptive society, we also have to know how to attract good professionals, good doctors, good nurses, from other places. But, according to the data provided on the valuation of the latest public job offer 2014-2015, applicants from other autonomous communities are clearly at a disadvantage. Because I wonder, and we wonder, that 17.27% of seekers who come from other autonomous communities, which is the data provided by the Director of Human Resources at one of the last appearances, what real possibilities they have, in the end, to stay in Euskadi. And finally, also, whether these people present themselves on an equal footing with other aspirants. Because then, when there are oppositions in other autonomous communities, CAPV seekers also compete with neighbouring communities without any problems. We also believe that it is necessary to correct the dysfunctions that occur in the policies of euskaldunisation, or, rather, the dysfunctions that have produced the policies of euskaldunisation of the Basque Government over so many years, where they have clearly stepped the accelerator in the linguistic policy. And also in order not to have the expected results, spending a huge amount of EUR million every year, in the case of Osakidetza, in substitutions, in formation, in the end, as I say, in order not to obtain the expected results. Therefore, for this reason too, you would have to reflect on all those policies that have been implemented over the years. The eventuals who work in Osakidetza clearly have a difficulty in being able to reach a fixed position in Osakidetza at the end, due to the number of squares that come out profiled and that, of course, in our opinion, do not correspond at all to the sociolinguistic reality of each area of the Basque Country. Then, the assessment given to the euskera in relation to other merits: a PL2, eighteen points. It is valued more, as I said, than a doctorate, than all the scientific activities that any aspiring person may have. In the end, as the euskera is decisive in that score, and especially taking into account the results, for example, of Osakidetza's latest OPE, results that were also reflected here by the Director of Human Resources, where we were told that 70% of the candidates had passed the test, that is, the test of opposition, seven out of ten people (28,589 out of 40,538)... That is, with that percentage of those approved in the opposition phase, seven out of ten, it is clear that the merit phase will have a fundamental value in people in reaching a position in Osakidetza. But, as I said, as the euskera score is so high in relation to other merits, too high in relation to other merits such as training or experience, it happens that in the end, and practically in a situation of much equality in the test of examination, when the evaluation phase of merits arrives, the one that arrives with PL2, eighteen points, as happens to all, reaches positions of advantage or good positions in the definitive list, since when the evaluation of merits is calculated. But, of course, then that serves those people to choose destinations, and those people who have availed themselves of knowledge, of the accreditation of a level of euskera, do not choose precisely the outpatient clinics in areas where there may be a demand for euskera. No! No! They choose the provincial capitals, ambulatory located in Vitoria, Bilbao and San Sebastián, where the demand for Basque is lower. And we have the contradiction that squares profiled in places where there may be a demand for the use of euskera, as in Oiartzun, in Beasain, in municipalities also of Bizkaia and even some of Álava, those squares remain uncovered. Even when you have to call substitutions, substitutes that don't know Basque can even arrive. I mean, the system is mounted in such a way that there's a lot of inconsistencies. I'm finishing up, Madam President. Of course, for the People's Party, and seeing that there is an announcement of a new public offer of employment, it is time to correct that injustice, which has been maintained over time by successive governments and which has caused opposition after opposition many Basque citizens to see their expectations of getting a job frustrated. But few options give us the Basque Nationalist Party, because, despite the evidence of the data and the reality and the lack of results of its linguistic policies, it does not change a peak its positions, of which, obviously, we are not happy at all, because we see that there is no peak of reflection. In any case, we are pleased with the position of the Socialist Party, which has changed again, because it was not a position maintained throughout every year, and I announce the compromise we have reached with both the Socialist Party and the UPyD, to which I am obviously grateful for the possibility of having reached this agreement. We urge in the first point to modify the rules for the allocation of language profiles for each Osakidetza job and to review the score of the euskera as merit in future OPEs. Secondly, the principle of equal access, both in the provision of jobs and in replacements, must be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u23	Finish up, Mrs Garrido.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u24	And a third point – and I conclude, Madam President – that the current system of language profiles can be revised so that oral and written Basque training can be calculated according to the communicative requirements of each job. That is to say, once and for all, we must also review this so closed, and so little scope for margining, of the current profiles. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u25	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u26	Yes, thank you, President. The People's Group initially proposed that we urge the Government to amend the rules for the allocation of language profiles for each post, as well as the assessment given to Basque as a merit in the future OPEs of Osakidetza, with the aim of revising their assessment in accordance with the socio-linguistic reality existing in the different areas of Basquedi, and, on the other hand, that we urge the Government to take all necessary measures to ensure the principle of equal access in the provision of jobs and in the replacements in Osakidetza. We share the ideas and principles behind this initiative, and we also share the arguments put forward during Mrs Garrido's speech. In agreement with this initiative, we wanted to add something else, and that is why we tabled an addendum amendment, much of which has finally not been included in the compromise, so that we will ultimately defend it in the more or less immediate future possible, so that there can indeed be no linguistic discrimination in Euskadi; linguistic discriminations which, in recent times, many of the groups in this House, especially the Basque Nationalist Party, have denied that they exist, but we reiterate that they do exist. This of the People's Group is a non-legislative, let us say, partially preventive proposal. And I say partially preventive because it is not yet known what the schemation that Osakidetza is going to do in the future OPE and, therefore, it is not known what assessment it will give to the Basque woman. In any case, it is true that the logical thing, knowing the managers of Basque public health, is that the PP is right and they are going to give the Basque again excessive scores. This has been the case in the past, and it is certainly the case in the future. We do know that all the positions in Osakidetza, like the rest of the Administration, or many of the positions, are profiled. We therefore agree with her that this allocation of profiles is high and that in many cases it is clearly disproportionate, especially in some areas of the Basque Country. What is true, and we have been reporting it since UPyD is in this Parliament, is the linguistic imposition of government and nationalist parties, both in education and in the general administration and also in health. In the case of Osakidetza, we have already joined the denunciation of the evaluation of the previous OPE, promoted on that occasion also by the People's Group, and we agreed on a transactional in 2011, which said literally: "The Basque Parliament urges the Department of Health and Consumer Affairs, in compliance with the agreement of 26 October 2009, to rectify the decision not to change the score of the euskera in the next OPE of Osakidetza, so that a balance is sought between the assessment of the euskera and the other merits, and the principle of equal access to the public service is guaranteed, eliminating the discrimination that occurs". The Department of Health was also urged to comply with the provisions of the previous paragraph, regardless of other actions it considered necessary to avoid grievances at the opposition stage arising from the way in which the questions were posed. But as far as the first point is concerned, then we were already defending what we are still defending now. And a few years later, also with this government, we were very critical and brought to plenary the subject of the plan to normalize the use of euskera in Osakidetza. A plan that – we said at the time – does not intend to normalize the use of euskera in Osakidetza, but that this language is the one that gradually becomes the dominant in the personal relations of workers and with patients and providers. And that path is not done by conviction – it was said, we said –, it is not done by a natural path as it is the majority and general language of the employees of the entity, but it is done by imposition, by coercive measures, which carry even economic incentives. It is not concealed, as has been done in previous times, and it is made clear that Basque must be the main language of communication, whenever possible, and it is entrusted to the managers to act as true linguistic commissioners in order to obtain the greatest possible number of Basque units, the greatest possible number of publications in Basque, the greatest possible number of meetings in Basque, and a long and so on. Even this cluster of impositions is carried out on third parties, private companies, concerted services and associations of patients, donors, faculties of Medicine and Nursing of the UPV, etc., which shows the obsession to impose euskera on society as a whole by nationalist parties. All these measures, we said, represent a new twist of nut to try to force the Basque euskaldunization of health. Anyway, these are the things we've been saying over the years. It is therefore reasonable, logical, that we agree with the initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party, and that we would have liked to add that addition amendment. Finally, I have signed, in conclusion, a compromise with the People's Group and the Socialist Group against linguistic imposition, although when they ruled they did not move a finger at this situation and left everything basically as it was. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u27	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u28	President andrea, lehendakari jauna, egun on denoi. Ez neutralak euskararekin race. We're not neutral with the Basque. We want to encourage the use of euskera. And to encourage the use of euskera by taking care of something very clear: avoiding any discrimination from citizens. This is the concrete basis of our position here today. We would have liked those times to have passed when a third language profile was more useful than a master's degree. I think that should have happened by now. And even conceal that the merit of euskera would have been more important than another condition to access or not a square. That is what we want to ensure today as well. And it goes through the coverage of sufficient places, and to accommodate the linguistic requirement to the reality of each area and to the profile of each professional. And this is what I'm going to go to, the profile thing. I don't think it's a merit debate. We had to have overcome this in 2011, when for the first time they took the first exams of the agenda where the aspirants were measured by their knowledge, by the knowledge of the matter, which was where the cut took place, and from there added merits to dominate the euskera. We propose to go beyond that. We propose that language profiles be transformed into a useful tool for citizens, not a barrier for professionals. Because the profiles, their design, had a will, that of getting more services provided in Basque, according to the rights that assist citizens. The Basque Socialists believe that linguistic profiles should be a tool that protects rights and reconciles linguistics with social ones, and that they are not aimed exclusively at the normalization of the use of Basque. Because linguistic rights cannot be conceived as an absolute in a plural and open society, with different socio-linguistic realities. We cannot pretend to achieve balanced bilingualism. We want to unload the linguistic policy of this obsessive burden in order to achieve a bilingual and short-term society. We want to release linguistic policy from the sense of bilingualism's compulsoryness. Because wanting to achieve balanced bilingualism would lead to forcing a large part of monolingual society to learn Basque already. Therefore, what language rights do Spanish-speaking people enjoy? Nor do we understand why a society with different socio-linguistic realities is not better than a homogenizing, balanced bilingualism. Institutions can provide facilities for those who so desire to live in Basque, but this is not a basic and fundamental right, but a strictly personal option. Public institutions should not actively promote this monolingual option. We consider it necessary to address certain dysfunctions generated by the linguistic policy managed so far, and one such dysfunction is the rigidity of the profiling system. It is the Government that should continue to review the effectiveness and impact of these profiles so far, analysing the achievements of current policy and correcting their dysfunctions. And it is the Government that must correct these possible dysfunctions and adapt them. It is the Government that must establish how each profile is credited in written and oral communication, because today we have a widely shared reflection also with the current Government, although some of us have warned from before, that the requirement of a profile, the requirement of excellence in the oral or written domain of euskera, has not meant a proportional increase in the use of euskera. That explains all the latest campaigns driven by the Executive, because – and that is already proven – one thing is to have the profile, and another thing to work in the two languages; one thing is to accredit a title, and another thing is to make use of that knowledge. If it is to guarantee the right of citizens to express themselves in any of the official languages of the community, a new system of language profiles must be established. If the communication needs of each job are reviewed in the employee's relationship with the citizens, and it is identified in each job if the communication is oral or written at a more or less high level, the result will be mixed or asymmetric profiles. And in particular in the public health service we all understand that a doctor can care for a patient in Basque, who requires high knowledge of oral communication, and can write the report in Spanish, which requires less written knowledge, or write it in Basque with the help of a computer program, as counted by the Justice staff, without direct contact with the public, which does not require a written knowledge profile. But a secluder, for example, which is also a place to opt for an OPE, does not seem to require a high written knowledge, because nothing in its functions requires it, and it may require it orally, and will be greater or lesser depending on the area where it provides the service. The same as an ertzaina who is patrolling the streets of any town or city can attend to a citizen who is addressed to him in Basque with oral knowledge in profile 2, but may not need more knowledge of the written language than that corresponding to that profile 2. Another thing is the bosses. Between the commands and the Administration of Osakidetza and Ertzaintza a model of profile 2 and profile 3 can be implemented in writing, taking into account the use they have to make of the written language in front of the oral one. And level 2, PL4, it should be reserved exclusively for posts where quite complex texts in the Basque language must be created, but for those with the profile to do the corresponding work. Because the usual thing is that they work in Spanish, and the materials are sent to the translators. Different linguistic realities, different needs. Thousands of people aspiring to a square accrediting their knowledge of health, thousands who have made an effort that allows them to have up to a sufficient domain of euskera, which allows to serve users of public services. I remember: we owe it to those thousands of people too, who after the last OPE have been actively complaining about what is happening. And this is perhaps the least helpful thing to promote the Basque. That is why we advocate that in the OPEs convened by the Government, the assessment of the knowledge of Basque should be adapted to the socio-linguistic reality of each area in Basque, and also to the communicative requirements of each post. In October 2015 we agreed among all that we had to review things we have done, also in very broad consensus between different, between nationalists and non-nationalists, in favor of what I think we all share, which is the Basque. Among different sensitivities we made the Law of Normalization of the Use of the Euskera, which has made it possible to multiply by three the number of Basques who know the language. Among other things, we have made it possible to standardize the free choice of language in our schools. Among other things, we have put in place instruments that, where necessary, facilitate this right for citizens to relate to their administration in the language they choose. And we know that that has meant a great effort of understanding on the part of the Basque community and a great effort of generosity on the part of the Basque community that had never before had even had a relationship with the Basque, for whatever reasons. Let us really learn from this common effort, and that a job call, an opportunity for so many people, does not become a problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u29	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Eubertarians. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u30	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief physician. Good morning, everyone. Lady Garrido, to begin with, I will ask you a question, for I do not know whether we are going to invent a paradox or give the name of this ecocipation. I should like to know how it is possible that you, in this parliament of the Law, have insisted upon it once and again as you do, for the sake of the eucalyptus at Osac, if it is to be dissected for the benefit of the Basques, how is it possible that at this day 100 percent of ours should not be a Basque? Klaro, we are face to face with a paradox. You say, 'He is curious, because all the Basques are incapable of getting the square, because that's the crucial thing to know the eucalyptic.' But it's reality that Osacides are not 100% euphoraized. Why is that? Because you make your speech from a false committee, that's the reason. We have heard that, as you said, you would bring the matter back with the intention of raising dust in this parliament, with the impartiality, with the clear intention of making the political use of the eucalyptus. And in front of that, in fact, we didn't know exactly what our position was to be. What was the best answer? Do not do anything, and do you follow your false discourse, acting in your own way? Or what we have done over and over again, to explain what action is, and in what sphere we move in, on the one hand in reference to the rules, and on the other in reference to reality? That's the way we take it. But, to be honest, Mr. Azkue, it was not from the discourses I was surprised to hear, it was not from the Pontarian Party, it was yours, it was the Socilist Party's discourse that struck me most. Mrs Garrido said: "Me alegro de que el Partado Sociista vuelva a changer de opinión obera ventez." And it's true, you have the air of wandering. The intention of our legislative party is not to enter into quarrels in this respect, and to avoid the maximal attitude, our clear object, our clear intention, that is to say, the most pernicious of all for the support. 'Tis not that which a Basque needs to go about in the maxims and wanderings of a maximary attitude, 'tis that the eucalyptus is to encourage, to speak, as you say, to use it, but he must be prepared to do it. And to be prepared is by no means to yourself, Mr. Azkue, as Mrs Garrido has hitherto done, to make the same speech, and to say, "no podemos disseminar." That's not true. And if that were the case, you should have an explanation because you've been representing the Socialist Party, Mr. Azkue. If you admit that the rules are dissecting, we don't accept that, if you accept it, how can it be, if you are in the government, to avoid the disquisition you accuse of doing nothing? We are face to face with another paradox. You've seen him dissecting, but don't do anything, as Mr. Maneir tells you, to change it. We believe that it was made in the way of the vast political consensus that we ought to maintain the legal discipline that is established, and that it serves the quality of the service which Osar presents to us. It is not, as you said, just an appropriate language account, a member of the service's quality. And the best thing to do is to go forward from political consensus to each other, in suppleness, we have always defended ourselves, stepping forward, without stopping, and never taking a step back at all. We can't protect that at all. It can't be, Mrs Garrido, that the decisive thing is for us to get into the Osar. The crucial access to the membership is to cancel the investigations. Zuo, your government, the executive government, established an established regulation: The professionals in Spain, and those who come from other states, examine the knowledge of language. What's going on? I have also told you this in other discussions, what Popular Party wants is the one- Eleticity, the monolinguism, the obligatory, the strengthening of it. And what is here is gravity. And that's what the public administration has to guarantee, and who has to take steps let's get to it. And we know it's just a step ahead of us. But not a single word at all. No el monolinguism al qued tantas vices se refire y cupiomente hoy también el representant del Sociist ha ha referencia. In our correction we've been demanding that the rule be fulfilled and taken a step, that the steps used in the Office Language are made and given in the Plan. You gave me the information. The professionals don't run away from here because of the eucalyptus. They flee from here and from Madrid and the Granada and Eshmamentum, everywhere, and there are no eucaurs to speak. And taking from others is a lie. 17% of 40,000 contestants in the last selection process came from other autonomous communities, and Councillor Darpón said so. That is the measure of the solvency and attractiveness we have as public employers, and they really know they have a chance, if they actually do make good reviews. Because what it is about is to catch, as has always been taken, the best professionals with high grades in the opposition phases, and if they also have experience and know Basque, of course, they are what they are, brilliant professionals, which is what the public administration has to feed on, and also Osakidetza in particular. What the Chief Darpón has done in this law, and it is well known that the position of our legislative team is on his discourse and his leadership, the leadership of the Osacian war. And as it is well known, and for many that it is not objective for me to applaud his position and his discourse, I shall use the words of a member of the legislature who carefully examines the work of the government and the chief physician. Your consent, Madam, I shall use your words. In March 2016, the chief physician, in the event of the evaluation of the Basque Use of Plan, said to Mrs. Rebeka Ubera: "Ha habito un avance signifivo, básico y subrayable, y por lo queremos felicar al señor Darpón: la superacion de un debare plalso. Ya que ha ayudado a superar ese debare plaso en el que aguos insinist, e interesto, de medico à omeditico escalta. Ya nadie cuestona que los derechos tumüísticos sara parte de la calide que ofrecer Osa memberia en sus servicios." And this was your speech, chief physician, the speech of this government. And I don't just applaud you, or our legal teams, even those who study you severely. I'll tell you later, you said everything you said to your team that the development of the plan is slow. But your speech is what we have to do. And that's the way we all have to go. Instead of bringing them to the exercise of political use, step by step, the language of preparation. Steps with the Administration in one of the two official languages, both to prevent the objections which the citizens have to make to their relationship. That which is well is strong and evil, and that which is weak, is corrected by the limits of our weakness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u32	Good morning. The Basque Country, the Basque Esquimia Er-Escan Society, the Esscal Administration, I mean to assume that these names are not mere marcheinal rings, but are something more, and that all is said and argued when they are called names and names. And therefore, outside all the unconscious views of cruel and blind fascists, ideology and nationalism, logical, logical, normal, it is natural to think and to develop that in both official languages the Administration must offer services, because it is necessary to respect the rights of all the people's languages, because rights are to us citizens. Rights are not of language, rights not of Administration, rights of citizens. And the administration's duty is to offer high-quality services to respect those rights. Nay, if we believe in these concepts which I have at first alluded to. Within this quality the rights of language go. If language rights are not respected, there is no quality. As Mme. Gorospe has already reminded us, the dichotomy, which is overcome, the past fault: a good physician or a dicotomy of euphoria doctors. And today I was going to, and I'll do it to confess, because when things are done well, we don't have a problem to confess and criticize when they have to be criticized. And it must be acknowledged that this Health Department has passed through the legislature in theory, that this Dicolamy and this pholancy have passed, and that there have been some steps in this way, although, as you have said, small steps and slow in practice. Or I will explain here another way, because when we explain that we neither understand nor explain things properly, it seems better for me to understand. The Constitution of the Spanish State, the Constitution, which some claim so much, the State of Guernica, the concepts which are found from the universe of EH Collect, and from mentality to a majoicine distance, some of which, therefore, are not suspected at all. In these cases it is clear that euca and Spanish are official languages. So, what's the problem in our administration for eucalyptic doctors? What's the problem? For what lies at the bottom of today's proposal is, "We don't have a doctor." That's what you're saying and that's what you're proposing over and over again. And the Basque Society, the Basque Administration, requires euccanic doctors, and that's all we ask for, the Basque Doctors. I mean, when they're doing their job, when they're going to take care of people, who'll be able to communicate with them, no more or less. That's just what we're asking. And that's why today we made no correction, because the discussion that's planned doesn't make any sense, no brains, no legs. Everything is ideology, mentality, if, of course, it is not from a close, limited, retrospective, radical ideology. Because the debate is over and constantly staring back because it doesn't lead us anywhere. I look back, but I can learn from the mistakes and go on. We have to move forward and not back. And we need eucalyptic doctors to provide quality services. And for eucalyptic doctors, we have to work in two directions: the one, which we already have in the system to make eascals, and so many measures are to be made, and not only the physician, but the professional health-profonics of all the sophists, and the other to confirm that those who enter the system are euphoric, and this is called effective. And we can establish a thousand measures both in one direction and in the other. But as we're in the second direction today, and as we're talking about public work offers, I'll focus on that. And in order to appreciate it, we have two important measures: one, that which is given in the hospitals by study and degree in the hospitals, is not discussed today, and the other, the criteria of public offers. And for all that has been said, our administration, in making the public offer, ought to be a duty, duty, and not merit, to know and to secure the professionals. And that's not excess or discrimination. And it shouldn't even be justified. And today we're talking about OPE's criteria. In fact, the OPEs have been announced, but in the next legislation, we don't know when to do it, we don't know what kind of judgment they're going to do. But it's true that he's taking advantage of the health department as if he were creating jobs to announce this moment when he doesn't produce them, but that's another discussion. On the other hand, I'd like to talk about something else. Would any one, for example, be able to speak of the rights of women, classify them in deserts? I do not know in what country there are fewer women, to adapt women's rights to this reality? Well, you're doing the same thing when you're talking about the sozygic zone when you're talking about the zoo. For our duty is to fill base rights in all areas, because in all countries the rights of language must be fulfilled, less Basque, more Basque. And besides, when we know that only the citizens of that country are treated in the Osacans. But, well, there are many occasions of argument, which are really not well thought, and I should ask you to reflect a little more before you give me the arguments that are made use of. But, well, there's a few excuses for not hiring eucalyptic doctors so as not to fill up the date of necessity. You know what? It's exhausting, it's sad to feel strangers in one's own country. And that's how we feel, stranger in our country. That we must constantly defend the rights of all men and of us, that we are constantly to see, that our rights are broken up, and that we are constantly to follow, to claim our rights to respect our rights. When the euphorans are continually displeased at us, when we are rejected, when we suffer from excess. And besides, when we have to face blind ignorance and nationalism with arguments, when they don't put their arguments together when we're talking about rights. And when we often find the administration in front of us, and not defend ourselves by the hand by the side. But now, with a smile in his mouth, his head erect, and we will continue to live on, above all obstacles and attacks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing the answers, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u34	Yes, Mrs. Ubera. We also want the members of the Populian Party to live on eupula, but in regard to freedom and to multiplicity. We don't want Euskaldune doctors or Euskaldune doctors. It's just that what we want is the best professionals. And the overrated euskera, which has become a determinant and clearly discriminatory element, is making a lot of good professionals go to other autonomous communities, to other places, and even good doctors who would have the possibility to work in Euskadi not come. Of course, Mrs Gorospe, if the figure of those approved at the stage of the examination of the opposition is 70%, seven out of ten, then you will tell me whether the assessment of merits is not going to be decisive and that excessive assessment given to the Basque woman in relation to other merits is not going to be decisive! Tell me how the end of the picture will look! Of that 17% of seekers who have presented themselves from outside, from other preferably nearby communities, tell me what the final photo is going to be! Tell me that final picture! Because at the opposition stage there have been 70% approvals; therefore, we all know where the cut is going to come from and what the decisive phase is going to be. No, no, no, no, no... no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no. "Se treatment de el conceimento del euture," "the knowledge of the euccane is at last decisive in public." And it must be a characteristic, but it cannot be rated as it is. And it is a matter of choice, of choice, and of equality. And with such a rating the chances are not the same. And, of course, in the end, if we are not giving the same opportunities to people who aspire to a square in Osakidetza, then the euskera becomes clearly a discriminatory element and an element that in the end allows access or not to a square in Osakidetza. It is also the dysfunction in the system that in the end those who use the euskera precisely to get a good score then choose destinations in which the demand of the euskera is not proportionally as high as elsewhere! And, by the way, do not place us in the debate of monolingualism yes or monolingualism no. We're not talking about that! We are talking about guaranteeing opportunities, we are also talking about guaranteeing rights. And the rights of euskaldunes are guaranteed, because when a person goes to an administration, to a office, if he wants to be served in euskera, he is served in euskera. What's different is that we pass the roller and that we want everyone who is in a clinic in Álava, in many municipalities where the demand of the euskera is very small... I wish it was more, but it's the one. Look, it's the one that's in spite of all the efforts you've made. Therefore, something will have to be reconsidered, because its linguistic policy of taxation has not yielded the expected results. In the end, people... If we all know cases – I mean this is a topic that affects us all – we all know public health professionals who dedicate part of their effort to learning Basque, which can be very good, but with the sole aim of accrediting a certain profile and then keeping it in the drawer, because that particular profile (PL2, eighteen points) will allow them to access a position in Osakidetza. That's all! That's why you in the second Euskera Normalization Plan want to go one more round, in those circuits that you have wanted to implement or that you want to implement in Basque health for oral communication, because you know that then you don't talk, because you know that then there are difficulties in using the language. To me that, as Basque citizen and as Basque euskaldun, I am very sorry, that someone goes to the Basque euskaltegi to learn euskera simply to believe a title (and this does not happen only in Osakidetza, it happens in the whole Basque Public Administration), with a lot of effort, with many hours of work, then put it in a drawer: "Well, I already have the PL2". But you don't have to... This is the reality, because then they don't use it. They don't use it because the working language, then, is easier perhaps... But if it is that books in medicine, if many are not even translated into Spanish, Mrs Gorospe! It's just that many are not even translated into Spanish! What do you want me to say? What do you want me to say? But in the end, when a government and political leaders get involved in denying reality, they suddenly come to terms with that reality. And here are the results of the linguistic policy that you have practiced for a long time, and there are the reflections that you will also have to make. They'll have to do it, because, in the end, you're going to tell me what the situation is! Of course, you say no party use. Man, party use is what you've done. Partisan use, which you are making of the knowledge of a language to clearly discriminate against those who do not believe it at a sufficient level. If we're not talking about not having to demand the Basque! But, man, we are going to demand it in a rational way, in a way with common sense, in a proportionate way, balanced in relation to other merits, so that there will be no dysfunctions in the system and so that those who have opportunities to stay here and who are the best do not have to go elsewhere, which is what is happening.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u35	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Basque Socialists, Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u36	We've been everywhere and we'll be socialists. We've been in every compact until we get Basque normalization and we'll be there. Others don't. What we're saying is so far from what we've done in the government team or do you want to read it? "The commission to follow up the validations of the euskera knowledge certifications, taking into account the suggestions issued by the technical group, which was of the external experts consulted, in its report of conclusions, inter alia, on language profiles". Gehiegi eskatzen recognition of her. Hor dago eta ez dut nik exacten, gives the follow-up committee. Hainera, advised by outsiders. Eta hori exactten da, dudarik gabe. But I'm not going to that. How difficult it is in our country, even in this Chamber, if you say a particular subject, to apply the laws of the eucalyptus to the proper application of the laws, and say "you're getting pretty much out of the way." What way? Or we all make this way, or there's no way for it. And you will forgive me, I respect you, not you. Not yesterday, but the day before yesterday, and I'm willing to admit it, and I'm not going to lie, Xabier Isasi said, but I didn't bring the page; "No me extrarña la de respeta del Partado Socialista de Euskadi y del PP al eesz. Claro, lo que me extraraña es actud del PNV," said he yesterday or yesterday at a press conference. We'll always respect it because it's our language. We'll defend it because Spanish is our language. But neither the languages, the citizens, who use it to the eucalyptus, nor the youth to use it. And we'll defend the professionals. And we made a pact in education. But don't tell me that educational compact should pass through to the doctor. What behavior do we live in? The Basque needs harmony, and I'll always say that, and we'll always be talking about it, the socialists, we'll always be doing it. But I don't know what to do with it. I don't know what it's normal to say that we have doctors tomorrow, all the infirmary, that we've got to do it. What are we saying? What true people are we doing if we don't respect the villagers? Let us, no doubt, give to the cradle its rating. And from here it seems we haven't done anything. We have three more people who talk of euphora for the past twenty years and who use it. Let us go on this way without much fuss. And telling professionals that he, like a good professional, is that they can look after our citizens. At least that joke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u38	Eskerrik asko berriro era, legebiltzarburu andrea. I do not know, Mrs Garrido, whether you have been appointed representative or trade union delegate, representing the interests of that 17%, of which we are glad to see you come, but you seem to be the representative of 17% of those who compete in the selection processes coming from outside of Euskadi. That's your biggest concern, for the outsiders to have options. And you know what happens? That is that the greatest concern of this Government, of this councillor, the greatest concern, is to ensure what must be ensured: that the service offered is of quality in all aspects, having as we have the best and best professionals in the sector. Moreover, this service can be offered with the highest possible quality. And that maximum possible quality, in Euskadi, also requires that it can be offered and that it must be offered in Euskera. When you're in our language, you've taken a step to offer us a double service, that's what the Administration has to guarantee. Those who come from outside, who are welcome, and if they are good professionals, will be sure to do great tests, and he who does a great study will be an experienced man, and he who has experience will have a chance to stop it, and you must learn to make sure that the service he has is really good. Liburuak ez daudela gaztelaniaz? Then we'll have to bring English! Because, of course, we need trained professionals, right? But also you in Madrid, who make you believe that you know Spanish, make you believe everyone. Do you know any professional who works in Basque public health who doesn't know Spanish? One? You, filter everyone and everyone, and if you don't, it doesn't happen either. And I don't know what language the books will have read. I suppose in the same as those who read those who are brilliant and those who are the pride of Osakidetza. Berberak Gauza. You said, Mr. Azkue, in the correction of Mr Azkue, we'll vote against you, not graffiti, that you mention the possibility of entering the perfil asymmetrics. And you said: "Algunos ventiamos ya proponiedo antes." But my question is: "Y donde consta su propuesta"? Porque believers venian proponendo antes. You were just pissing off, running Osac. Where's the change in the regulations you plan? Where is the suggestion of the perfisometric perfi you plan? It's about our legal team and that's what's goin' on. Here it is. You were on the board, here's the writing. "Responsibility check. Whoever at the present day wants to fill up a confession of language must see all the skill that belongs to this profession of language: reading, writing, hearing, speech. But in many cases these communicative skills are not all on the same level; nay, it may sometimes happen that there is not a skill or any other need for a particular job." It's a good suggestion for fun here. You dede-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-de-law to others when you've been in charge. And I think, Mr. Azkue, perhaps because you have been more or more involved in another sphere, you may not have been well acquainted with the system of popular language, because you have mentioned that you should not point out the fourth profession of language. And it's the own language show system for members of 2003. And there, for instance, the second language is that which most of all concerns nurses and doctors, not the fourth one, that wasn't so. And you said that you've been to every compact. That's true, that's the stability of the place. But in the course of the Paclague Party andUPyD's speech in the course of which we first started, in the path to seek in the middle, far away from the maximists, you settled in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u39	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Ubera, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u40	Here freedom is used to resist freedom, equality is used to oppose equality, lack of discrimination is used for dissemination, not for laughter. And all this is called the Glotophobia, which is called ignorance, fascism, the Spanish nationalism. And I'd be bold to say the xenophobia stays here today. What we heard was terrible, lies and terrible. We're told it's a matter of eupcharation. But what's the problem with the eucalyplic doctors, the orators, for eloquence? But who says he is the enemy of the Spanish Basque? But languages are not enemies, they are not enemies, they are not opposed. The more language you know, the more it seems to be a problem. And that's what we're talking about, the eucalyptic doctors, that's what we're talking about. And the date, Puerto Rico. The association of free States, of the United States, is the United States. Two languages, Spanish and English, the default Spanish language. Is that understood from a Spanish nationalism? And we've got a thousand examples of that in the world. And today is the fact that the reality we have in Ossare is serious, and the rights of the people are not respected, and we still don't have a social service, which passes through the everyday. And the objective data. In high school, four contracts, three non-euscal doctors have been made. And what do you use for that? Business contractions, not to fill up the language fiction. Lazio, three contracts, same thing. We're talking about the UEMA countries, the Basque Plan, the people who are involved in the constipations, who don't even respect the Basque Plan. The EssI of Donostia, 55 contractes, all of which contractes are not medical. The same thing at the ESI. And in order to make the substitutions systematically, they are not respected in the date of necessity, nor even in the date of extinction; they are not respected by the profession of language. So there is no quality service. And that's all there is to it. And besides, we have to listen to lies and terrible ones. Ignorance, this is what is called ignorance. And so we can give you a thousand data. It is therefore impossible to conceive what is the problem of being eucalyptic doctors, eloquent and eloquent, and of which we speak. And what we only require is political will, which will be clothed with effective moderation, and which we really miss. It is true, and I say, I have no difficulty in admitting, when things are done well, and I confess, and I admit that in this legislation we have passed discotomy, this fault, a good physician, or an euphoric physician. But there's still some effective measurement. And the measures which are taken up in this second plan are not followed, and they are used not to take precautions. And the only thing we're asking for is our personal services and our health service. whether language, Spanish, French, is not hostile to us, is multiplicity, wealth, is freedom; Let us see whether we enter into our heads, and lay aside these fruitless and false disputes for the public good.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the entire Euskal populars, Misto-UPyD and the middle-direction signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; counters, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u42	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full rights of the US patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys, 27; whites, 0; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u43	Since it's a draw, we'll vote again. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; contrarys, 27; whites, 0; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u44	As a tie maintains, we'll leave it for the next round meeting. Forth point of theme list: "Gather the law-grouped proposition concerning the public record of illegal violence. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. The representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Gold, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u45	Good noon, everyone. Thanks to the female feminist struggle for years, we've gone to acquire basic rights for women. But the women of the Basque Country and of the wide world continue to be secondary citizens, because we have no chance of doing all rights by equality. We don't have the freedom to decide what we want to do with our body, sexuality, and reproduction. The right of enjoying the public is also violated by the danger of being attacked in it. We have no right to live a life without violence. We have no right to enter into the working world under equality; we have no right to decide whether we are guardians or not. And, to conclude with examples, we have not the right to be observed. Besides the neglect of difference and sex, there are other factors (the egg, class, age, functional débertsity, etc.), which produce various discriminations of various kinds. The goal is not just to delete the genre blindness. We must also identify the way other oppression factors occur. The physical crisis we're suffering from today is not today for women or yesterday. It's the same old state as the capitalist has imposed on us. It is nourished and nourished by the patriarchal system which gives men more rights and more privileges. The system divides the power, the means, the sites differently, according to the relations of men and women. As we are involved in the sistemic crisis, we see that one day and the next, the majority of the people are impoverishing and living under bad conditions, and especially the women. Moreover, to penetrate into neoliberalism makes it difficult for women to live without violence. And thus, without economic autonomy, there are more and more people who can't break down the state of violence-those who have to endure the violence of their fellow-citizens, their superiors, their colleagues, or their clients. We bring to this Parliament a proposal that is as simple as it is valuable. A proposal to create a single, permanently updated register of Machist violence, of the multidimensional nature of violence in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. To this end, first of all, I would like to make reference to and highlight the demonstration that took place here on 9 April in the streets of Gasteiz, where 12,000 people, under the slogan "All violence will be answered", were summoned by the feminist movement of Euskal Herria; who united, in unison, raised a very clear need, and it is the urgent need to rethink in the first place what we mean by violence, creating a framework that allows such complexity and multiple forms. Because when we talk about violence, we don't just talk about murders or beatings. We are talking about a framework of violence in our society and that, of course, from feminism we have a responsibility to make visible and to fight. The comrades of the feminist movement spoke in this manifestation of the multiple aggressions. They can be assaults on lesbian women, suicides in transgender adolescents, or assaults on bodies that suffer functional diversity. This is all macho violence. Of course, there are moments, as the companions themselves said, in which the night and the holidays are a potential space of violence. Under the pretext of nocturnality, alcohol and permissiveness, sexist aggressions against us multiply. Of course, we must, and they did, speak of the question to the institutions; of the question in this case to this House and to the Basque Government, of the need, of course, to give coherence to the policies that are being carried out in order to eradicate, or to combat, in a better way, the Machist violence. And it is not understood that there are messages that speak of equality, and then policies that go to the detriment of the political, social, cultural and labour conditions of society and, of course, of course, to a greater extent in women. We had, today we know the report (well, yesterday), the report even of Caritas (so that we will not be called radicals), the report of Caritas in which he talks about the systemic crisis that the Basque society suffers, and, of course, especially in women, the multiple violence that they suffer and the multiple deficiencies that they have, because this system of social protection guarantees does not give them enough coverage so that they can have minimum conditions to live decently. When we talk about violence, we have to refer to the need to speak about it from a human rights and human rights violations point of view. Because when we talk about human rights violations, what we want to say is that women are not subject to benefits, is that they are citizens of their own right, and that, in this case, the institutions have an obligation to ensure that this human rights violation against women has redress, and of course guarantees of non-repetition. We can talk about the application of the so-called "Integral Law of Machist Violence of the Spanish State", which, as we have repeatedly said in this House, is an absolutely obsolete law, a law that falls within the scope of the relationship between couples, and which of course leaves a hole as to the various and multiple violence suffered by women and bodies who dare to violate the rule established by patriarchy. From this human rights approach, a number of rights of women and bodies who are victims of human rights violations and who are victims of such violence must be guaranteed, and international legislation does so. By putting just a few examples of how it is working in this case in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa (or we can talk directly about Euskal Herria), how reality is working in one of the areas, in the area that is most talked about, which is in the field of physical violence, we speak first of all... And this is not to say that we simply need to talk to the people who are working daily to defend women's rights, working to care for the victims of macho violence, in the end doing what they don't get to do all the institutions whose responsibility is clear. We are talking about that the courts are not specialized, neither the judiciary nor the prosecution, have not received adequate training (a few hours or on an intranet). As happens in Lanbide, where a Lanbide worker has told us that training in macho violence is a protocol that is hung on the intranet. That is what you call awareness-raising and education in combating violence. And this is a reality, ladies and gentlemen, in all areas and in all areas of this government. We are talking about a social alarm about the growing momentum or increase in cross-reporting, of abusers reporting to victims. We are also talking about a shameful and alarming increase in withdrawals. We are talking about the fact that in the past year there have been 158% withdrawals; the case has been closed or the case has been dropped. Overruns have increased in places such as Getxo, where cases have increased by 50%, or Barakaldo, where the figure, despite being somewhat smaller, also has a upward trend. We are talking about that today places like the courts are a hostile place for those people, those women victims of macho violence who are going to file a complaint. On the other hand, it must also be said – and this is also acknowledged by the Security Adviser herself – that the Ertzaintza police stations are not suitable places, with the minimum conditions for those who decide to lodge a complaint to do so under minimum conditions. Because they're in the same place that they go from a person who's lost a cell phone to a woman who's suffered thirty years of male violence. And this can't go on like this, there are multiple irregularities that have to be done. And in this sense it must be said that the figures continue to increase, the figures have increased exponentially, but we know figures of violence and at times and at different times. Because, first of all, the Basque Nationalist Party also referred in its entire amendment to the annual report by Emakunde. Of course, with an annual report we don't have a map, we don't have an X-ray to make a real diagnosis. And do you know why I think it is this refusal to carry out the acceptance of this proposal that EH Bildu brings today? Precisely because on a map, in a real map of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa that addresses the multidimensionality of violence, we can see exactly the multiple shortcomings that this Government has in eradicating Machist violence. Of course, it is not understood that there are speeches that are supposed to be for equality, and that there is no clear and political will to carry out issues as minimal as a record that is constantly updated, including violence; that allows organizations, the feminist movement and organizations working with women victims, and with all those who suffer from multiple violence, to have the opportunity to make a real diagnosis to demand that institutions, as they continue to do, with a real map, compliance with and minimum guarantee of the rights of women and all those who violate what is established, the established norm. The same applies to the defence that the Basque Nationalist Party referred to. The defence, by law, must bring to this House an annual report on the complaints that have been made on this issue. We have had a committee, an appearance in this case, at the request of this parliamentary group. There hasn't been anything else. Another very important issue, Begira, the Begira committee to which you referred: there has also been an appearance requested by this parliamentary group. This does not even give the relevant explanations to the parliamentary groups regarding the data on the Machist violence in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. Of course, there are multiple shortcomings. Not to mention Lanbide. Lanbide, who accepts only to be a victim of sexist violence to those who have an existing restraining order; who requires women victims to legally separate, or to claim through the courts the pensions of their children immediately, in order to be able to access an income guarantee income; who demands to leave the house immediately or to be made within a ridiculously short period of time, not addressing the specific needs of victims of sexist violence. There is no special environment for this, there is no environment in Lanbide's services that allows them to deal with the issue in a logical way. They're completely victimized everywhere, they're doubly victimized. There is another very serious issue, which the Erne de la Ertzaintza union denounced in this House, and it is precisely that the ertzainas specialized in the matter of violence work from Monday to Friday..., I don't know if he said six or seven in the afternoon, it doesn't matter the time, but they work in that period, and from there, if you are going to file a complaint, you have to be with a person who is not specialized in the matter, and you have to go back to reporting it. And this is very serious, ladies and gentlemen, very serious, because they are women, they are people who live real life dramas, and are being victimized. And this is the responsibility of the institutions, of all the institutions, these aggressions that have to suffer the added ones already in their lives. This weekend we had the opportunity to meet multiple testimonies of victims of machista violence, and to know not only their life dramas, but how Basque public institutions have made their victimization, their precariousness and their feeling of defencelessness increase. And we cannot allow this, and that is why it is fundamental, it is clear and it is clear that we need, first of all, to have all the data, which must be available to Basque society – because we also talk about transparency – of all the data that must be available to the victims of human rights violations, in this case the victims of human rights violations of macho violence, which must be on the table so that we can really talk about a real diagnosis, and so that we can talk about that real diagnosis and, consequently, we can carry out policies that go further in combating these violences. Because otherwise, ladies and gentlemen, we will follow once again – this seems like the day of the marmot – talking about this issue but not solving anything. And in the meantime, hundreds of thousands of women are still out, claiming that this is a political priority today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u47	Thank you, President. Mrs Urrea proposes that we urge the Government to create a public register of the macho violence taking place in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, in order to publicize the violence suffered by women. He points out in the justification of his initiative that we believe that the creation of the register of Machist violence for Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa would promote collaboration between institutions, experts and civil society, in order to develop the means to eliminate the Machist violence of our society. It also points out that this requires defining what we call sexist violence, and EH Bildu reminds us of some of these violences: work harassment, sexual abuse, sexual assault, violence suffered by women who engage in prostitution, female genital mutilation, etc. And he also points out – rightly, I think – that it is necessary to specify what kind of information such a record should collect. It seems to us that it is, at least, an idea that needs to be discussed. Bearing in mind that there is still male-based violence and that, therefore, we have not by far solved this very serious problem, all the ideas that can be raised in this House in order to finally be able to eliminate it seem to us that at least they need to be debated. Of course, the issue before us is an important one. It is necessary to put everything on our side to eradicate the scourge of macho violence. We appreciate the work of Emakunde and his commitment to this task, but we believe that we must continue to improve, increase resources and improve the techniques that will lead us to end gender-based violence in all its forms; to put forward new proposals, new measures and new initiatives, to be ever more forceful and intransigent with this scourge. We can't lower our guard. As I said before, the Machist violence continues to exist, we have not yet been able to put an end to it, and it is therefore highly recommended that all of us think every day of the year about what else we can do to put an end to this scourge. It is necessary to continue to improve the good work carried out so far by Emakunde. Words and good intentions must be brought to bear. And that goes not only by designing good projects, but also by providing them with good budget allocations, by also analysing what has been done so far, what may have failed, and what more we can do to end this very serious problem. It is true, of course, that not everything is money when it comes to eradicating macho violence. That is why, in addition to defending the creation and maintenance of an up-to-date public register of the different sexist violence, we have included as an essential part of our amendment the necessary coordination with other institutions involved. Gender-based violence is not just a Basque issue, and we therefore believe that we need to give it a broader, more comprehensive and comprehensive treatment. And, of course, it is necessary to improve interinstitutional agreements and strengthen initiatives. It is true that various and fairly comprehensive information on different types of violence against women has been collected since Emakunde, but these records on specific forms of violence against women need to be publicly accessible and regularly made, and form part of a register that collects all types of violence against women, in order to be able to treat all these types of violence as part of a whole and to seek solutions. We consider it essential to know about violence against women, so that we can implement all the necessary measures to ensure that all violence against women can be eradicated. Specifically, female genital mutilation is a type of violence against women that has grown in Spain and also in Euskadi due to immigration and the increase of women from countries where this savage practice is carried out. According to Unicef, some 17,000 girls in Spain are at risk of genital mutilation. According to data from Emakunde's diagnosis of female genital mutilation in June 2014, more than 3,000 women from countries where this savage practice is practiced live in the Basque Country, accounting for 5.5% of the more than 57,000 women living in Spain. This and other violence against women, such as violence against women who do not freely engage in prostitution, should be taken into account, and the data should be collected periodically and in a comprehensive manner as well. There is an increasing need for maintenance and improvement in coordination with the rest of the institutions involved, with the ultimate aim of eradicating gender-based violence. That is why we have tabled our amendment, which we believe complements or improves the original initiative. Today there is male-based violence. It's unbearable. We must therefore do more, and I firmly believe that we all want to do more and that we can all do more. We have tabled an amendment which proposes to urge Emakunde to create and maintain an up-to-date public access register containing the various gender-based violence taking place in Euskadi, taking into account all types of gender-based violence against women. We also propose to urge Emakunde to maintain and improve coordination with State agencies responsible for collecting data on gender-based violence, including the Institute for Women and Equal Opportunities, the Observatory for Violence against Women and the INE. And we propose to urge the Government of Spain to improve the data collection system on gender-based violence, improving coordination with the autonomous communities, keeping the data record as up-to-date as possible, and including all types of violence against women on account of their gender, that is, simply because they are women. Among others, sexual abuse and assault, violence against women engaged in prostitution, or female genital mutilation. This is therefore our contribution to today's debate. It's an important matter. Let us take advantage of every initiative presented by any group in this House on this issue to rethink what this government is doing, and whether more can actually be done. I do not doubt, of course, this Government's commitment to the issue of macho violence, but I am sure that among all groups we can be right to put in place new measures that make it possible to fight this scourge more and better. In this regard, we believe that the amendment by the group supporting the Government is insufficient, because it proposes to do what is already being done. And simply proposing to do what is already being done seems insufficient, because there is still male-based violence, and since there is male-based violence, this means that we can do much more to eradicate it as soon as possible. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u48	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u49	Thank you, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. Socialists want a society of free women; free to make their decisions, free for no one to attack them or threaten them or harass them for making their decisions in freedom. Those of us who sit in this House belong to the first generation we have been able to choose; we are the heirs of those who fought from the demand on the street to the work, in the home to which the dictatorship imprisoned, but who on all fronts allowed us, among other things, to be here. And it is up to us here to guarantee the rights that have been so hard to win and that we see that they can be so easily lost, and that is something that must be remembered every day, not just on 8 March or 25 November. That the history of the struggle for women's equality is the best reflection of the fragility of rights, of the need to cultivate them, to defend them every day, to protect them, to widen them, to raise the voice every time they are approached and made political decisions that shield them [[sic]] - No, no, no, It has been very hard to open the window of access to education, the window of access to work, the window of freedom and motherhood. And, after so much struggle and conquest, today the cutback of rights places the woman who makes use of her freedom in the weakest part: those who suffer the most from precariousness, those who suffer the most risks of exclusion, and also those who suffer the most from violence in all its forms. Today there are many women in Euskadi who are afraid of their partners and do not know what window to turn to to feel protected, because there are many young people in Euskadi who do not see the risk of letting them control their communications, their way of dressing, their physical appearance, their friendships. We are facing a serious violation of rights that endangers women, their freedom, and also our dignity as a society. And what we are trying to defend here today is not just a record: we want to achieve effectiveness in our responses to this reality. Socialists believe that institutions must multiply their efforts to deal with violence against women, any kind of violence that affects their freedom, dignity, security, privacy, and, of course, even endanger their physical, sexual or psychological integrity. Therefore, the effectiveness of this effort must include measures such as the recovery of the single window of care for victims in Euskadi, and the establishment of a specialized service for the care of victims of male violence in all police stations, during 24 hours on seven days of the week. An autonomous police force that is preventive, not only reactive, that takes care of the necessary and personalized care, so that women who suffer any kind of violence, so that an assaulted or threatened woman does not have to wander to find protection and protection. Assaulted women who receive a different treatment depending on the department that attends them, as well as a continuous window-to-window pilgrimage. That should be avoided. That's why we won't tire of asking for that one-stop shop. There is a need for coordination among all institutions (local, fora and autonomous), because we and all of us have a widely shared awareness of the need to fight in an integral way against macho violence. But it is true that we have different ideas about the measures to be taken and how to do so. Indeed, we consider violence against women to be a major political and social problem. But we understand, and we say so, that the creation of a public register of macho violence, how will it prevent violence and improve the situation of the victims and make the violence of our society disappear? Before we create the public register, we believe and believe that it is necessary to specify what kind of information should be collected in that register, which information is useful: what information is collected from the victim, what data about the victim, complaints, sentences, etc. If it is only intended to publicize the violence suffered by women, how will such information be used with privacy? There are too many questions we ask ourselves. We don't see anything clear. Of course, my group prefers to propose further measures, to resume proposals, to put into effect, and above all, to operate effectively, which this Government has withdrawn, which can work on insurance. We propose and believe that it would be more appropriate to create the single window of comprehensive and coordinated action; that Emakunde register all the cases that are being dealt with, distinguishing between those that have occurred in the family, in the family, in the couple, in the workplace, those suffered by those who engage in prostitution, youth violence, genital mutilation and how many assaults are taking place against women, so that this register serves as a basis for addressing how many new policies are needed to combat sexist violence. We see with concern how violence against women, both murder and sexual abuse and assault, continues. The macho violence will not disappear if we do not end the causes that produce it. We call for strengthened prevention and awareness-raising campaigns that end sexism, and we call for more robust measures. We need and we are committed to effective policies, and I would like to call for a greater commitment from this Government, the Government which abolished the Directorate for the Care of Victims of Gender Violence, which launched the Patxi López executive during the last legislature, and which required a rapid, effective and specialized response to the needs of victims of male violence. We urgently call for this initiative to be taken back. We call for the implementation of the units for the integral evaluation of male-based violence. We call for timely legal reforms to ensure the protection of women. We ask, and so have the Basque Socialists, for the removal from custody of the sons and daughters of those convicted of sexist violence. And, put to ask, we ask a government in Spain to assume gender-based violence as a matter of State. It also affects Basques and Basques. We need, after the great conquest of the Law against Gender Violence, to face in an integral way everything that affects aggression and discrimination against women. For socialists, macho violence is not born of aggression and direct threat, it is born of discrimination, and we have to attack it from the root. That is why we advocate a law of equal pay, to prevent a woman from paying less than a man for the same work. We advocate social emergency measures in households at risk of exclusion, when women are the most at risk of severe poverty. We advocate increasing the female presence where decisions are made. And we advocate that in all areas in Spain and in Euskadi the foundations of a country of truly free women should be laid. And back to our competence, to what we can do here, the Basque socialists always work on the disappearance of all acts of gender-based violence that result in physical, sexual or psychological harm, including threats, harassment or deprivation of liberty, whether in public or in private life. The non-law proposal that EH Bildu, Mrs Urrea, brings us seems to us to have little to go on, but it is good to have initiatives on why this is allowed and why it is happening, and why not work enough. Parliament should not one day forget this fear that so many women are suffering, but we are looking for something more than records and studies. Records and studies must have an end, they must not be a mere count. That is why we support the specific measures that we have taken in our amendment and which I will explain in the next round. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u50	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Madame Arriguega, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u51	Thank you, Chief. The President, the chief physician, the congressmen, all good noontides. I believed that Mrs Urrea came to explain to us a little bit the goodness of that public record that she came to propose on her initiative, but I see that she has given her totally partial (that is, widespread) perspective on what is happening in Basquedi in terms of violence and equality policies, as well as some other companion who preceded me by using the word. So let me do it, too. Last week we were informed of this story: in the index of the equality of genera, the European States are equal to the fifth Eucade. According to the Eustatian data, Euskadai is above Belgium and Belgium is in the corner. It's like fun said that day, it's a very stimulating level, but it's still necessary for me to keep pushing on the rules of equality. The nations which are the most advanced in the equality of sexes are still in the middle of becoming the real equality between women and men. And here again we have still work to extend and establish the policy of equality, for this evil is commercial, and we must extend it to all quarters, in order to combine with society. I've said this several times. At the checkpoint of Friday, the Gold, once more, in answer to the question of how the Government resists violence, the President reviewed the most important programmes and actions which had been set up in this legislation for the sake of five minutes and more. But he even mentioned the challenges on his face. This competition with violence never ends, never stops, and never ends until there are more women who suffer violence. Among achievements, they are remarkable: The fact that the state of women in the field had been admitted, that the units of equality had been introduced in Osalan, Osacin, and in the way of creating, in the Basque Rascal Railway, and in the way of creating; that they had accepted, for Hezin and Genero, the planetuality of the Prevention of the Union, the co-ordinate co-ordination of the victims against women, and that they had increased the economic and personal resources, and that the gift had made a treaty with Oslalan and the inspection of the Society for the sake of the welfare, and for the sake of sexual equality and for the welfare of the United States, and for the sake of the establishment of the Union for the nation, for the other laws. We see, in several different quarters, all these. And the coordinators, routes, and evaluators, the results. And let's not forget that he's directly attached to the Election Presidency. And its strategy agrees with what international organizations are expert on the theme. We have mentioned it several times, even here in the Eucharist VI. Equality plan. The third axis of this plan of equality aims to wrest violence from the heart of women. Among the strategic programs, I would emphasize the sensitisation and prevention program, by helping you to change the values of violence against women and to maintain them. It's the key to our team, quite essential, in this long process of transforming society. Nevertheless, in recent years, it has been far advanced in sensibilization and prevention against women, in order to make them see the reality of what has been said, thanks to idenphysication and accusations. So that the increase of accusations, for there is more consciousness, and, fortunately, less tolerance for any violence. I'd even like to highlight the play and attentional program. In the whole country he wants to ensure a quality of attention to women who have suffered violence, and he wants to adapt and improve the means available to their needs and reality, and create new resources when necessary. Besides, he will put information and equipment into the hands of these women, a worthy, worthy life, peaceable, and without violence. When these resources are made available, it must be observed that the wants of the persons who are in charge of these women are especially their children, because they are also victims of opposite violence. Once more, the essential of different kinds of interactions. I could spend the whole morning explaining and listing all the actions and policies that, promoted and coordinated by Emakunde, implements this government on equality, in an interdepartmental way and also collaborating at the inter-institutional level. I have named some and I would like to name some others, such as the Office of the Ombudsman for Equality of Men and Women or Begira, the Advisory Commission for a non-sexist use of advertising and communication. I would like to refer to these two, since Mrs Urrea commented that they have come to our committee alone and exclusively, to inform us about the data collected both in Begira and in the defence department, once. And you already know what the reason is: the reason is that it was first implemented the previous year; therefore, it has only been able to come once. They'll keep coming. And this, again a milestone of this government, implemented for the first time during this government. Two more milestones. I would also like to talk about Jabetuz, the most recent, a training programme aimed at improving the training of professionals in the care system for victims of violence against women. This training is based, from the first of its teaching units, on the approach of empowerment as a strategy and as a horizon of intervention with women who approach the programs or services in Euskadi, whatever the scope of intervention, be it health, education, police, judicial, social services... And this approach is used precisely because it is demanded by the victims themselves, and because those working in the system considered, during the diagnosis of training needs that were carried out to design the training, that they need to deepen the theory and practice of empowerment. Therefore, we have diagnoses; from there all these initiatives emerge. And yet, all this work and effort is not enough to definitively eradicate this evil of our society, which is violence. Because it doesn't happen from one day to the next, and unfortunately it won't do it without the involvement of everyone. Bildu says in the justification of the non-legislative proposal that it is essential to know the dimension of the machist violence suffered by the women of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa (...), made the diagnosis that will serve as a starting point that makes possible the implementation of actions for the prevention of such violence. And it proposes to draw up, as I said, a public register of the sexist violence suffered by women, and that in addition Emakunde establish the typologies of violence, beyond those that exist in the relationships of couple, also collecting the harassment of work, sexual abuse, sexual assaults, suffering by women who engage in prostitution, female genital mutilation... And isn't it true that Emakunde has appeared countless times in our committee to talk to us about all these things, to transfer all this data to us? Isn't that right? Isn't it true that heredia's councilwoman Beltran has also appeared? Isn't it true that the Toña councillor, even the Abort councillor, has also appeared? Is it not true that Mr Darpón, including Mr Erkoreka, has appeared again and again in our committee, providing data? That data you say you would have as a result of implementing that record. You don't have to implement that register! The data already exists, and above it are differentiated. Mrs Beltrán de Heredia comes to our committee every year to inform us of the data, but above the differentiated data, of the different violences. It makes a total difference between assaults, rapes... That's true. And those reports are Emakunde's, and those reports are hung up on Emakunde's website. Yeah, they're public. You were talking about transparency. You just have to access Emakunde's website! Those data are there! So, what we don't understand is that if these data are public, they are in the hands of the Government, they are in the hands of Emakunde, they develop the relevant diagnosis and then they develop the equality policies that are to be implemented, what does that record come from? Could you explain to us what that record is about? I would like to delve further into this subject, but, as I see I do not have time, I will leave it for the second round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga. Passing to the district that hasn't issued any corrections, representing the Euskal Potula Group, Mrs Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u53	Eguerdi on, Madam President. Mrs Urrea speaks in her justification that it is necessary to know the dimension of machista violence against women, to make a diagnosis, and above that this diagnosis is the starting point to launch actions for prevention, and thus to deepen in this reality that is lived in silence and secrecy. So formulated sounds very commendable, but it would be more so if it were really new. But I can understand that you are proposing initiatives, such as the concrete one you are talking about, to improve or to criticize some concrete action, but not as if we were starting from scratch. It's a little illusory, too, to think that when you get to a camera, she starts the work on this subject, doesn't she? He also talks about fostering collaboration between institutions, experts, civil society... in order to develop measures or means to eliminate the macho violence in our society. I agree that violence against women goes beyond partner violence and that this should be taken into account, as has been said, by Emakunde. Or I can even agree that it should be taken more into account if it is possible. But what I don't understand is exactly what he proposes in his initiative, because, unless... And in the first intervention I have also not been able to clarify myself, because in part I understand that you already do what you ask, and in part I do not know, unless I clarify it, if even legally you can do it. I have doubts about the data you want to incorporate, about the information you want to incorporate, about what indicators, about the privacy or not of the information you want to be present in that record... Moreover, when I come to the extreme, I am concerned that the information is so much, so detailed, so concrete, and all that the Administration can have, that it can manage the Administration, that in the end we have lists of people. Then, yes, I would like you to clarify that, because I don't see it. In fact, there is information that has been given to us in committee appearances, and there is another that will be handled, that cannot be given. That's why I don't understand, when you talk about reports, data, statistics... when there's also a documentation center in Emakunde... Then he also talks about inter-agency coordination and collaboration. I, in committee and in plenary, have been able to criticize and I have been able to propose improvement measures, but I will never question whether interinstitutional cooperation already exists. I see it from here and I've seen it from other institutions I've been to. Interinstitutional agreements already exist. And above all, when he talks about registration and information, not only that, but there are recent developments about information systems apart from the Observatory of Machist Violence against Women. Specifically, I am talking about a group of information systems that have been set up within these interinstitutional agreements, which aims – and if this is not what you are asking me to say, because, if not, I do not know what you are voting on with this non-legislative proposal –... which speaks, among the objectives of this group that already exists, of the analysis and dissemination of the characteristics, causes and consequences of the different manifestations of violence against women in the Basque Autonomous Community; also of the carrying out of diagnoses to identify the situation of violence against women in the Autonomous Community; of the evaluation of the effectiveness of resources and care services for women victims of violence, which is where we have sometimes said "Well, because after that evaluation this does not work, this can be improved", and we have taken initiatives. But you can't say that that data, that statistics, that information doesn't exist. Moreover, for a year now in that same monitoring committee, within that committee and this information group, which is called, it has agreed and undertakes to approve the indicators of minimum scope, to inform all those involved in the collection of data on violence against women of the different services dependent on the entities it represents, to organize the work of the staff responsible for the collection of that information, to enable the computer systems for data processing, to collect that information in Emakunde. That's what I pulled off the website, looking into it! Moreover, if they are up to the pdfs with the whole system of indicators, with information, in my opinion, quite exhaustive! So, what else do you want? I mean, what exactly is it, what does he ask for in that record? I just don't... I really don't get it. I would have liked to have made that clear to us in your speech, because it seems good to me to make proposals, if it is to improve, but what you propose has not clarified it. And in his speech, rather than sticking to his initiative, which he already sees not only to me, but to the rest of the groups, we have a lot of doubts, because I think he has made more of a management balance, he has opened the zoom and has dedicated himself here, above the table, because, I do not know, in a condensed way, the most controversial issues that we have been able to deal with at least in this legislature. And there, of course, it leaves us a little sold, because there are specific issues on which we have made proposals or we would have things to say, but that was not the subject of the initiative. He has talked about something that can be criticized, that can be improved, that has to do with the issue of attention in the police stations... It is that you have made here an inventory of matters, when it comes to clarifying us to the groups, to see what we could have voted on, what record you are talking about. Because I'm saying there's a lot of information. I mean, another thing is... Almost, the difficulty I see is more in turning so much information into knowledge, and managing it properly, than in lack of information. Maybe you can make an initiative to sort it out in a way..., systematize it more, I don't know, easier to operationalize, manage, but information? So, what do you want on the record? What information do you want me to be on the record? I understand it already exists! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Passing over to the answer shift, representative of the EH Collect Group, Mrs. Gold, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u55	I don't think you've understood exactly what I wanted to say to you. The registration that we basically request is the articulation of data from different institutions and departments in a single database. We are not talking about bringing to light personal data of the victims, of the aggressors, or of absolutely no one. These data are generated in the various institutions and in various areas, and on a discontinuous basis, which are articulated in the same database and updated weekly. That's what we're asking. But it's not that Euskal Herria Bildu asks. It is a request that comes from the feminist movement, from the organizations that work, that do the work that the institutions do not do, to give attention to the victims of machista violence. Of course, I invite you to get a little pissed off, to put the institution aside a little bit and get out on the street. Let them go out and ask people. Nothing more and nothing less, they could have started by attending the demonstration that took place in Gasteiz with 12,000 people, who questioned them, because they were told to carry out protocols and equality plans that were not carried out. Because on paper we can see a wonderful content, but then it doesn't run. And it's the reality. Ask the networks of equality techniques, ask all the experts and all the people who work for the defense of women's rights and, of course, for combating that macho violence, for generating lives free of macho violence, and you will tell them that. I'm a simple leash to transmit the reality that's on the street. I invite you to go out on the street... Moreover, they do not even have to go far: with them going outside the Basque Government many days a week they will see how social organizations, in front of the Basque Government, show their manifestations. Go out and ask them to explain, give them a chance to explain, because that's what they're going to say, that's what's going to happen. Of course, I understand that the role in this case of the Basque Nationalist Party is to defend what already exists, as is being done in all cases. But then this happens as in everything: they defend what already exists and value what is done, when the street, when reality tells us something else. It tells us that the exponential increase in the number of victims of machist violence continues unabated. The fact that there is only one violence is already a failure of this Government, but it is that the figures are exponential; therefore, it is a double failure of this Government. The Ertzaintza, the Ertzaintza union itself denounced the lack of training. He said, "Please, I ask you to have training from this government on Ertzaintza, because not even the people who dedicate themselves" (experts are supposed) "to deal with these cases have the proper training". And that's not even what I'm saying; it's what the Ertzaintza union itself says. Lanbide's workers... Ask the Lanbide workers what has to happen. It is subject to the will, to the good or bad will of the workers, of the public officials, to take due care of the cases. But it is also that you have remained in that violence is limited only to ill-treatment or murder. We are talking about that when we talk about violence there is also precariousness, and in those indices of precariousness you enter the website of Emakunde, that which you are so much defending, and you will see data that refer..., the most up-to-date, to 2011. Does that seem to you to be an up-to-date, truthful information that is consistent with needs, circumstances and the real situation? I don't think so, of course. They've had a partial perspective. In this Parliament on many occasions we have brought... We have put forward a proposal to create a paper specifically to study this situation, which could lead to a concrete study, a diagnostic basis for this Parliament, so that it could serve as a starting point to help combat and generate clear policies that go precisely to the crux of the issue, to the eradication of violence. You know what they said, ladies and gentlemen? No, I don't. We proposed stable and durable resources. You know what happened? No, there were no stable and sustainable resources; there are those resources, those miserable resources that Emakunde has, 6 million euros from a budget of 13,000. The co-education plan. Prevention is fundamental; it is the key, it is the crux of the issue. There we have to go, to prevention. And you know what they've done for prevention? They've taken out a plan that's been kept in a drawer, that takes him to school, that they teach them for ten hours... According to you, a change of values will be generated. In ten hours they talk about the goodness of equality, and from there the teacher has to carry that out in their classrooms. That's not serious.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u56	Ending up, Mrs. Gold.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u57	Two thousand euros for each school to run this. It's not serious. There is no political will, and this is the summary of the legislature. It is not a political priority for this Government, because if it were, it would not be limited to talking about murders or victims. We would speak clearly of human rights violations and, of course, also of the eradication of the fight against poverty and inequality, because that, ladies and gentlemen, has a woman's face.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u58	Thank you, Mrs. Gold. Miss... ? Basque Socialists represent the group, Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u59	Thank you, President. We insist that intervention against gender-based violence must be very specific, and with very concrete proposals. Mrs Urrea, although you have been explaining to us here before, we continue with questions. There is no concrete proposal, everything is very ambiguous. We do not know the limitations that will be placed in this register, what data can be accessed and known by citizens, where the privacy of abused persons and their protection remain, how the rights and freedoms of women who suffer from violence will be valued and preserved. That's a lot of questions, and we still don't have the answer. We understand that the existence of a file or record may contain a great deal of information about the person affected by sexist violence, but also even about his family, if we go further. And from our point of view, we think that concern about accessibility and data protection should be guaranteed, and how the right to no one to know how you live, who you are, what you are, what you suffer, what happens to you, and what you are suffering. The Socialist Group is and will always be against the macho violence suffered by women, and it is very important to promote a great institutional, political and social pact that can eradicate the most extreme manifestation of inequality. We need a state pact against macho violence, because it affects all the women that exist in this country. We will always be against macho violence, work harassment, sexual abuse, sexual assault, female genital mutilation. We want a society in which women live free without violence. We must work on concrete comprehensive protection measures, the purpose of which is and should be to prevent, punish and eradicate this violence, and to assist women who suffer and suffer from it. For all that said, we will vote for our amendment, because we believe that it is important to recover a single window of care for victims in Euskadi, with coordination among all the institutions in the need to combat macho violence, with a rapid, effective and specialized response. That there are no – this is what we ask –, that there are no gaps in the protection and assistance of all victims. In our amendment we picked up and urged that the Government, through Emakunde, create within one month an interdepartmental and inter-institutional table to create a single window of care for women who are assaulted or threatened by gender, so that they can come to any body and receive comprehensive and coordinated attention. Once this single window of comprehensive and coordinated action has been created, Emakunde registers all the cases being dealt with, distinguishing between those occurring in the family, in the couple, in the workplace, those suffered by those who engage in prostitution, by the violence or aggression of young people, by genital mutilation and by the number of assaults against women, so that this register serves as a basis for addressing how many new policies are needed in this area. To add to the proposal to address gender-based violence as a state pact. Because, in fact, we defend the single window, a unified body, which gives a comprehensive and efficient response to women victims of gender-based violence, as well as their children. Violence against women must be and become a real priority. That this single window be the body responsible for monitoring resources, coordinating and implementing programmes aimed at preventing, sensitizing and responding to cases of male violence. We consider it necessary to redouble efforts against violence, to re-place it as a political priority, because, of course, the party and the Socialist Group have a great commitment and awareness of the issue of victims. I would like to recall that everything that has been worked for equality and the fight against macho violence bears and bears the socialist mark. We have always raised the issue of gender-based violence to the highest level. Strengthening the protection of women is a priority for our party, our group, our community and the rest of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Mrs. Arrivalga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u61	Thank you, Chief of the legislature, again. Mrs. Urrea, re-name the Erne union. We think it's great that they listen to the demonstrations and what the Erne union tells us. Now, I'd like to know if you've made the effort to talk, to learn about the level of satisfaction, how abused women appreciate how they are served by the different ertzainas, the Department of Security and... As far as I know, existing complaints, where are they? Where are those complaints? Do you know them? We are very surprised that Euskal Herria Bildu, who always pleads for being in favor of the collectives, this time, before the collective and the union, according to who says what... There are always preferences. Speaking of the public record, I repeat that we do not share it. Firstly, because the creation of this register seeks to establish a public register to make the citizens aware of the violence suffered by women (as at least she said in her explanatory statement), as a measure for the prevention of such macho violence. And this, of course, is not a preventive measure at all. It can lead to many social responses above all and of all kinds, but prevention has nothing. We too have many questions about the creation of this register: the non-law proposal does not delimit the content of this file to which citizens are going to have access, it is not concrete what information about the abusers will be contained in the register and what data will be accessible to the public; it is also not clear whether what is intended to be made public are the persons denounced for male violence or exclusively those convicted in the first instance, or only in a final sentence... It seems a bit dangerous to us. The need to take effective measures to protect women from sexist violence, to ensure their safety and sometimes their lives was unquestionable, but the only thing they raised was legal insecurities, insecurities that should then be solved by the judicial system. Because for the prevention of ill-treatment is it necessary to create a register of abusers accessible to all citizens, or should such prevention be exercised through other resources that are less intrusive in the rights of individuals? There is repeated jurisprudence in this regard in the Constitutional Court. Nor am I going to start here to list all of them; I think it would be sufficient with this judgment of 10 July 2000, which says that to check whether a restrictive measure of a fundamental right exceeds the proportionality judgment it is necessary to ascertain whether it meets the following three requirements or conditions: whether such a measure is likely to achieve the proposed objective (suitability judgment), whether it is also necessary in the sense that there is no other more moderate measure for the achievement of such a purpose with equal effectiveness (suitability judgment), and, finally, whether it is weighted or balanced, because it derives from it more benefits or advantages for the general interest than prejudices on other conflicting goods or values (suit of proportionality in a strict sense). For now, from what EH Bildu puts forward in his non-law proposal we see that none of these three objectives are achieved, so we will not support his initiative. And Mr. Maneiro said more action was needed. More action is needed, but not just any, and this is a case. You were talking about what the collective, the feminist movement, was asking for at the Gasteiz demonstration... When they appeared in Parliament, in the committee, I asked them not once, but several times, on behalf of whom they came, whether they belonged to any association that also belonged to the advisory of Emakunde... They were unable to answer that question. No, no. No, no, They said "We came in the name of the feminist movement", of course, which is very broad in Euskal Herria, very broad. They didn't belong to any particular association, or they didn't say so at the time, because I asked several times. And I also asked them if they were bringing in the consultant, and neither was they. So, yes, it would be very interesting for you to have also been in the days of Donosti on April 16, when representatives of the advisory board of Emakunde talk – I'm not lying, you can see – about how interesting I was being for them to contribute. That they would indeed like to have more strength, but that they were very happy with what they had achieved, which was very much in recent years. And, in fact, the consultative representative said that most of the proposals that had been made on the Governing Board and approved were their contributions, and so it was. Therefore, the collective is listened to, and much. And a lot. Yes, I'd like to finish... Because, of course, he talks (of course, it's always this...), he talks about the paper too. Of course, in the paper you said... Of course, they no longer care that there are a lot of people from different groups, from different institutions, contributing a lot, a lot. They're only interested in what Bildu can bring. This is so, this is so, and that's why they stayed alone in the paper. And I didn't want to bring this up, but I'm just gonna take it out. Sadly, last week there were four cases of sexual assault in Iruña, and there were statements by the mayor, Joseba Asiron, who said...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u62	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u63	... which transferred the "unanimous and absolute repulse of the Pamplona Consistory to sexual assaults", which expressed the "deep revulsion that this type of sexist aggression produces to us", manifested once again that the entire citizenship..., the "commitment of the City Council to pursue and not cease until this type of aggression ceases at once"... And I believe Mr. Asiron, I believe. I believe him and I know that you are putting all the measures in his power to eradicate this type of violence. But I also believe in the lehendakari, and I also believe in any leader or political leader of the Basque institutions...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u64	Please finish.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u65	... when this kind of thing happens. But Bildu isn't worth it. Here it always has a double rod: what the rest does is wrong, but what Bildu does is fine, there is never an approach. Curious, curious Bildu's way. And then I'd like to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Aguirre...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u67	Excuse me, CEO. Because I would like you, Mrs Urrea, to end at once with that lie that Emakunde has a sad budget of EUR 6 million, when you know it's a lie. It is Emakunde's unique and exclusive budget, but equality policies in this Government are cross-cutting, and the rest of departments, all of them, have enough funding to deal with them.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u68	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u69	It's not 6 million euros; it's more, a lot more. And what's the cut? The one who puts Bildu, as always: ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty-five... the one who puts Bildu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Arriga... Very well, thank you. Euscala Popular, Mrs Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u71	Mrs. Urrea, so that you can exasperate Mrs. Arrizabalaga, who I think is the temperance in person... Look, he says we didn't get him right in the opposition. I don't think you've explained yourself well. It's not that we haven't understood it, it's that it hasn't been explained. Because, of course, we have to stick to the literality of what he proposes and when he comes to this House to defend what he proposes. And it is that in his first intervention, of course, he has caused me more doubts than just reading. And then it says, "No, it's that that record would be a database with information that already exists, ordered..." You said that here in the second intervention! So, I honestly have the impression that you wanted a hanger to do here a balance sheet of legislature – which, man, posts, we could have done here the rest of the spokespersons too – but what is the proposal has not defended it. It has not defended it and has not been clarified. Besides, the rest of the speakers... I don't know, Mrs. Fresno has also made you an inventory of all the doubts that generate what you pose, because she doesn't tell us what kind of information, what data, privacy... No, now it turns out that no, that's information that already exists, that you have to sort it, make a database and update it weekly. I'm saying we haven't cleared up yet. And then he talks to us... Of course, it's just... it's just that your approach from each of the interventions... and on top of that you're accusing yourself as the legislature ends, isn't it? That the rest of the political groups do not support ideological approaches does not neutralize or invalidate us in order to have our own positions and ideas on how violence against women must be eradicated. And he tells us we don't listen to women. I do not have to forget two hours of appearance with the feminist movement of Euskal Herria, who asked to appear to report on "the objectives, axes and ideological frameworks in which the national demonstration convened by the feminist movement of Euskal Herria in April is framed...". In the end, that's your problem, that everything leads you to ideological approaches, and where there could be, because we're all worried about this issue and there could be consensus, and in fact there have been, you always end up straining the rope in the end in a way that "what can I do to put everyone already on the defensive with me." It is that in that same appearance you said: "And it is not enough, because we face a system, a system that sustains and reproduces that violence in a systematic way, adapting to the times in subtle and direct ways. And that system has names and surnames, and it's heteropatriarchal, capitalist, neoliberal... This system systematically causes more than half of the population, women and those bodies who dare to violate this heteronormative system, to suffer a systematic violation of human rights." But then add... Sure, what's going on? "Evidently, the system is endorsed by the people who rule in the institutions, a system that is endorsed and managed with policies that are made so that our lives and our bodies systematically suffer flagrant violations...". I mean, part of some ideological prejudices that put us all in that it's impossible to reach consensus with you. Do you not realize that with these premises it is very difficult to advance constructively in something that could be a common denominator among all? In fact, he has once done so, but I do not know what has happened to him in recent times, which has been intended to exacerbate the spirits here of all the spokesmen. So, I insist... And above it brings us a proposal that is not defined, that is not clarified, that on the march in its second intervention is shaping it... How do you want us to approve this initiative! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Now that the dispute has ended, we will vote the original text of the other proposal by the law of the EHG. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 20; the opponents are 53; the white ones are 0; the abstainments are 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u73	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 1; contraries, 63; white, 0; abstaines, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u74	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Socialist. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 17; contraries, 47; white, 0; abstaines, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u75	So he didn't accept it. Next, and finally, the Eunciers shall vote for the full correction of the whole group. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the opposites, 37; the whites, 0; abstainments, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u76	As a result, nothing was accepted. Five point in theme list: "The same proposition as the Socialists of the Eussalia made by the legislature, concerning the balanced use of the Euscian and Spanish profession. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a proposal. Basque Socialists, Mr. Azkue, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. I want to say hello first to Alberto Barandia, the one we have with us, the director of the Hekim Esscal media. It's true that we've learned enough of this sector in its manifestation, and today it leads to something from the scene that leads me to the legislature. I'm talking about the institutional publicity that is used in the non-public media. It is true that the purpose of institutional advertising is not to finance the media. Its purpose is, as indicated by the Basque law that regulates it, to guarantee the right of citizens to information that may be of interest to them, and to promote through it their participation in public life. As a result, the allocation of advertising resources must be made primarily according to the number of readers, listeners or viewers who look at each of the media, although other factors which in their day were put on the table may be taken into account. However, we cannot ignore the fact that we are in a bilingual community and that the public authorities have made inescapable commitments with the two co-official languages, and more specifically with the support to which it has the least power or social presence, the Basque language. This institutional advertising in the media in Basque does not reach 3%, as long as institutional advertising in EITB is not taken into account. It can be said, without a doubt, that we find ourselves in very small numbers, taking into account, as we explained in the justification of this proposal no. of law, that Law 10/1982 of 24 December, Basic of Normalization of the Use of the Euskera, in its article 27 states that the priority use of the Basque will be promoted in institutional advertising. In this respect, it may be considered as a reference that in 2010 the motion introduced by EAJ had been admitted by all parties in the General Assembly of Gipulia, and that the proposal ordains that it must be made in the media published by 15 percent of its advertising institution. Our autonomous community, Euskadi, has more than sixty media outlets in Basque and between the sixty they intersect written press, local televisions, radios, Internet portals... covering all areas of the Autonomous Community. Various studies have found that local advertising is effective, that reaches well into the Basque-speaking community, and is a good platform for distributing public messages in Basque. We would have liked the Interdepartmental Commission on Institutional Advertising of the Basque Government, which analysed in the session of 18 May 2015 a document of recommendations and criteria for the purpose of distributing advertising among the media, to mention advertising in Basque, but, as we can see, none of this was advanced in the document that since 1 January 2016 establishes the criteria for the insertion of advertising and the purchase of space in the social media. We have all, on the other hand, had thoughts made by Hekimen of the sector of euscal media, and the data we are describing here today appears in memory, and I should say that we ought to all read this reflection. The amendment that we are submitting (and we thank Garbiñe Mendizabal, EAJri, nola ez, his commitment) represents a step forward in a normalization that must always bear, as I said before, the seal of consensus. And the same is true of all the groups today in this House. It is an absorptive amendment, it is a fair amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. "And it shall come to pass, when the men who set forth righteousness, [that] the deputy of the congregation, [that] Isas [is,] [is] your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u79	The President of the legislature, Mr. President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Albert Barandian, welcome. Talking Euscala is a political matter. The Basque isn't a personal matter in the corner, particular, domestic. The Basque isn't about the individual, mine, yours. Euskara's a talker's case. It's a case for all the people. Euskar's case is public, it's collective. The Euskara is the question of popular affairs, and the eucalyptus plays in public squares, and the public character of the square in the eucalyptus. Living in the square and in the eulogy, co-exists. In the square and in the square social wrongs are fought with euphoria, in the square, and in the market-place, democracy is established in proof. It must serve as a democratizing democracy. "It wasn't a case or not. It is a matter of action and of being, of rebirth, of rebirth, of rebirth, and of power. And who is it that we are to be to create a people which will enable us all to do our best. Being is action, we do what we do." The words read by Bilbo the Flower, in the final act of running, explain what the phenomenon of the eucalyptus is. We have often discussed the normalization of language in this legislature, or the lack of normalization. Often, but not long enough, there are questions in this respect. In this very assembly of the whole, the over-excitement of the excessive rating given to Osacia, which we have heard before, and this other proposal, as it has been proposed, shows us thus. Again two initiatives, two views. First, Mr. Jon Azkue, Member of Parliament, has asked us where the rights of language of the one-lettered language are left in the old Intervention. I am an angel, Mr. Azkue, and I swear to you, Mr. Azkue, that I have never been denied or broken my rights of language. I'm a Basque, Mr. Azkue, and I swear, Mr. Azkue, this Basque, I've often been rejected by the rights of language. Last, to mention one, on Tuesday past the legislature in this house, I signed in the name of the congressman EH, because the legal proposition had been rejected. An example. They will never oppress the rights of language, nor will they ever oppress those who are sent. That's a snitch, that's one of the cheap populisms, Mr. Azkue. In the last years of the commercial commercial media, as you said yourself, it doesn't reach 3%. And, as you say, beyond the publicity made in EITB. You mentioned the initiative in the Gipulia General Assembly, and that decision to direct 15 percent of the advertising institution to the eucalyptic media. And that was your original proposal. That's exactly 15% because you're lucky to realize that it's off to the eucalyptus and that the Basques are out of the way in this area. You've noticed it for once, and it makes us happy, but unfortunately we've been halfway, halfway or halfway. The media which are published in Euskex are more than 60 media, and these extensions are essential to the normalization of the eucalyptus, and especially necessary for the development and respect of the rights of the Basque tongue. "Merch and Public Administration are necessarily engaged in talking to the community of the eucalyptus, it is an inevitable commitment to the language rights of the eucalyptus." As for the publicity of the Institutions, it has been verified that local publicity is effective, as is said in the other proposition of the law. But for us, EH Collect, that's a minimum. It is well known that, in the last resort, we have a pretty high rate of reading from the Basques, and we have a pretty high degree of belief or extension in our media. It has been mentioned, on behalf of Mr. Azkue, recommendation, and these recommendations of recommendations from the 18th May, 2015, and unfortunately there is no mention of them in order to guarantee the commercial publicity of the Euscarate. In fact, we've done a little bit of a start with the socialist initiative, because it seems a step ahead of us. In fact, we thought it was a minimum proposal, that we could be able to go through 15% of the advertising institution alone. It's a minimum, just once in a while, from a joke that's associated with the eucalyptic. The language of the night must be renewed from the root of the root. A report of the New Court of Element 2015 has been mentioned. Here, Mr. Azkue, there are 789 complaints, and only one of them, as far as I am mistaken, belongs to the cradle all the rest. I think it's cheap populism. It's not true, studying for the sake of eucharism does nothing but favor those who are sent. It's really good to know language. To know how to write, to write, to know how to write, is useful, you can read more, and so on. It seems to us that, in this case, the dyscex has increased at 82%, that the language consciousness of the euphorta is increased and therefore more complaints seem to us to be a cheap excuse. What we think grows up is the anger of the eucalypists. It angers us to break thousands of people's rights of languages because they have cut off ETV's emissions. It annoys us to question the eucament of Bacchus. And he is angry with us, and is very angry at what happens in this legislature, and what I have said before. It is enough that the policy of language which is established leaves us helpless, we protest in the Bible, and we shall protest at the table, because we consider it, that in this case, by the name of the group, the rights of language are violated. EH Collector requires at least that the publicity of public institutions, the 15% of the advertising institution, should be compared with the EIB's, of course. The Basque Country demands a definite commitment to you, a negligible, an act. We can't sign the middle-way, Mr. Azkue, Mrs. Mountain, we can't sign because the agreement between us explains nothing beyond the intentions, it doesn't connect anything. We're not gonna protect the middle-class, we're gonna get paid for abscession. We must have a more dignified language policy if the normalization of the eucalyptics can be obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u80	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u81	Thank you, President. Good morning again, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. I believe that Mr Azkue's goodwill has given rise to the speech of Mr Isasi's apocalypse, that everything is wrong, that nothing is done, that it is land burned in relation to the policies of the Basque country. In other words, his goodwill has indeed given rise to that already known discourse. I have not seen very clearly the need for this initiative, Mr Azkue, its practical usefulness in relation to needs. I haven't seen that need to prioritize what you're talking about. I think we're talking about things that are already done with enough..., I think with quite normality, that are done with quite adequate needs. And, without going any further, Mr.Isasi also referred to what we had the opportunity to be introduced the other day, the Elebide memory 2015. The Elebide memory 2015 (Elebide, as you all know, is the service of guarantee of linguistic rights) has recorded a number of incidents (789), many of them, most of them complaints, but there are no complaints in relation to the lack of institutional publicity. I mean, you bring us here a problem that doesn't exist in Basque society. That is to say, when there are complaints addressed to the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country or to the entities under the General Administration of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, where these complaints would be integrated, because the General Administration of the Autonomous Community is the one which contracts with the media the institutional publicity, these complaints do not exist, do not appear. There are complaints related to oral attention not to attend in Basque especially by telephone, to some issues that have to do with the Basque plan and to the commitments made that cannot be fulfilled, with new computer applications, in some written relations, when it has not acted in bilingual in the citizen's relationship with the Administration, in some signs of traffic, panels that also Mr Baztarrika said were already being corrected, with linguistic models, for not being able to speak in Basque at work... None with the subject of institutional advertising! Well, you bring us a question of a problem that we see does not exist. We have tabled a comprehensive amendment on this issue. We say that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to apply criteria of effectiveness, efficiency, proportionality and realism in the procurement of institutional advertising in the Basque media. Well, someone might say it's a toast to the sun, but there's the question of where the Basque government has to act. Effectiveness: what is sought with advertising is that it reaches the greatest number of people and that it communicates to them something that may interest them, and also understand it; that it serves to inform, not to finance, effectively. Efficiency: how much it costs and what is the result that is intended with the relationship. That, how much it costs and what the result is, that analysis. Proportionality: yes, sir, balance, not disproportion in the allocation of resources, to accommodate it to the needs... Realism: the resources will have to be applied to the media that the most people read and to the media in which the most people are informed, and the response to the socio-linguistic reality and to the compression of the users of the media. These four criteria to which I referred: effectiveness, efficiency, proportionality and realism. That is, not money to finance or to give priority to certain groups. Money to inform and to communicate, and this in Spanish or in Basque. No false sponsorships, no party campaigns, no useless or sterile expenses in any language. What institutional publicity must seek is for as many people as possible to know about the announcements, communications, campaigns that take place and address a particular group of stakeholders, or part of the population, or the entire population. That is, in commercial terms, the needs of the market, the needs of the target audience. That is why, Mr Azkue, I say to you that we will not support the compromise amendment, and that we will in any case vote in favour of our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u82	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u83	Thank you, President. The Socialist Group initially proposed one thing to us and finally proposed something different to us. Initially he proposed something to us that he also proposed with his amendment EH Bildu, but he has finally decided to move intelligently away from EH Bildu to approach, even dangerously, the Basque Nationalist group. In short, what the Socialist Group was proposing was that we call on the Basque Government to promote the priority use of Basque in institutional advertising, and that we call on the Basque Government to ensure that 15% of the annual amount of institutional advertising goes to the media published in Basque and Basque, with the exception of advertising by EITB. We did not intend to support this initiative, nor are we going to support the transactional. We are going to vote against the latter. To examine this matter properly, we should first do one thing, we ought to ask ourselves a question. What's the purpose of the advertising agency? That's the first question we should ask ourselves what it's good for. In our humble opinion, the answer is clear: it must be used to support the dissemination of public policies, to bring citizens closer to what the public authorities do, and to inform them of programmes, services or actions that may interest them or are concerned with them. This is what institutional advertising is for, it's not for anything else. We should ask ourselves another question. How can we make a more effective advertising institution? In our opinion, this answer is also clear: we must direct it and insert it into those means and supports that reach the majority of society, that part of society that wants to be informed of something that can affect it. We could also add that this institutional advertising should be imaginative and creative in order to achieve the greatest possible impact, but in any case it must reach the whole of society in the most effective and efficient way possible. In other words, we must always seek to ensure that institutional advertising reaches as many citizens as possible, or those citizens who are interested in this complete information, at the least possible cost and with the greatest impact, and regardless of one language or another, which corresponds at any time to what is to be reported and to whom it is to be directed. And this idea radically clashes with something that most political parties carry out when they govern: they insert institutional advertising according to their political interests. That is, they give priority to the media friends with the insertion of ads or as a way to subsidize or buy them. Most of you are older and more aware than me, so I understand that what I'm saying you know him perfectly. Another action that we do not share is the one that seeks, through institutional advertising, to grant a subsidy to grant money to media that go through or may go through certain economic difficulties. Institutional advertising is not for this either. And, of course, we also do not agree that institutional advertising should be used to carry out a certain linguistic policy. Institutional advertising is not to be used in order to obtain political purposes. It's a goal for the government's actions to be recognized by the citizens. The original initiative drinks from these latest ideas: to give money to certain media to seek a certain political approach, to help them economically, and finally to promote a certain linguistic policy. In addition, the Socialists add to all this high doses of accomplimentation. I do not think they understand why institutional advertising exists, or what its purpose is, and they claim that we urge the Basque Government, through it, to benefit from certain means and to carry out a certain linguistic policy. And this is a fraud against society. As I was saying at first, the advertising institution has a purpose: to convey information of institutions to society. The Socialist Group's GNP is one of the most complex in the place. But above all, what I want to tell you is that institutional advertising is not for this, it is not for what you propose. On the other hand, why 15 % and not 20, or 12, or 7 %? And why should the publicity that is introduced in the media using the Basque language be given priority, if they reach only a very small number of readers, listeners or spectators? It is certainly sad that it comes from a good politician, such as Mr Azkue, a proposal that represents so well the bad policy that we should not pursue. So there's no reason why we should protect this proposal. There is no reason why a specific pre-defined amount of advertising money should be devoted to the Basque media, especially because it does not have a significant impact on public opinion, or on the margins of their impact. That has to be taken into account. Unless we are looking to covertly subsidize them or give them a double financial line, as today all the Basque media are subsidized by the Department of Culture. In addition, there is a whole series of aids for the Euskaldun publishing world, far superior and far more generous than for the rest of the media. Therefore, to make a kind of additional positive discrimination, and to grant them by law institutional advertising above what is theirs, does not cease to be a double institutional financing that violates the whole logic of the market and the public interest in the management of public flows. The inclusion of institutional advertising must be based on the figures for the dissemination of the media, regardless of the language in which they are published, independently of that, since it is the citizens who choose which media they read, listen to or hear, and they give them the figures for hearing. And, as citizens are the final recipients of the advertising messages issued by the Government, these are the figures that must be moved by the advertising inserts, independently, I insist, of the language in which they are edited or issued. And that is why our amendment in its entirety: we propose to urge the Basque Government to ensure that the inclusion of institutional advertising is guided exclusively by efficiency criteria, including the basic parameters of hearing and proportional distribution of it among the various media that are disseminated in Basque, regardless of the language in which they are published. Finally, they have signed a transactional that doesn't say anything that we don't know and that doesn't say anything special, and that won't really serve anything. He proposed that the Government should apply the principle of positive action and gradually increase the percentage received by non-public media in Basque, taking into account rationality criteria. He doesn't talk about efficiency, he doesn't talk about effectiveness: he talks about rationality. Rationality is the attitude of one who acts according to reason and is not led by impulses. That means rationality. With this in mind, I understand that you will vote on the UPyD amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u84	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Your Honor, Your word is Yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u85	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good morning. Those who have preceded me have explained what the essence of this point is, and I must repeat again the Basque Law, 22. he says in the article: "All the people are allowed the right to be informed by the means of society as well as of youth. For that matter, I'm sure you'll have to take more measures to increase the presence of the eulogy on the media until you're in use of both official languages." Again, after 30 years, we see how the Basque Act worked. A language needs media, if it lasts. Since the Euscara's law has been accepted, there have been a great deal of difficulty which have been produced and continued to work by these means. (Good morning, Mr. Baradian, I don't know where you are. ) They've done a terrible job, and we've confessed it many times, and we've got to go on confessing it. We've got a lot of progress with what's been done for 30 years. We have a different situation now, and this state has led the eucalyptic extensions to reflection, and after this reflection they have been united in the community called Hechimen. There are more than a hundred media in the community, of all kinds, as Mr. Azkue has said, most of the written press: journals, radios, localtelebists. With the help of a promoter of language, all of them, I'm glad you're being classed or municipals. In the year 1991, we only had eight media. Six hundred workers are working today. for the use of support is necessarily to increase and strengthen the use of society in life, as has been said, the extent of the media used for euphora, because it belongs to all the eucaurs, Mr. Issas. You have already said that modern policy disarms the rights of the Basques, which is your opinion, it is a free opinion, but we do not share that opinion. We've agreed to the middle, as has been said here, and I'll read the middle line. He says: "We ask him to continue to promote the eucalyptic media with the policy of support, to use the principle of positive action as the distribution of the institutional publicity, and to add to it a progressively communication received by non-public criteria." We proposed to the original proposal as we said in correction, in the press that was invested 11,1 million dollars a year. In this number, 5145,000 euros invested in private eucra media, that is to say, 46% of all investment media. So when you say there is no definite commitment, Mr. Isas, we don't share that opinion because data is data. Even in advertising, it's a political thing to do. The whole advertising is designed with eucalypancy and youth, a very remarkable part of the eucalyptic publicity, as well as a young man's use for media media and media. So there's no doubt about the commitment to the government, no economic effort, including societies or societies with government. And in our correction, on the other hand, we were talking about the ESEP Basque Suscan Plan. And that's where the media is mentioned, because it will serve to enrich the eucalyptic contents, and to enrich the talker of the euscals. And we mention in our correction the Euscara Age. And I'll read what's on the schedule: "The media form the other field which we shall employ in strengthening the use. To have a strong coastage sector is a key to encourage the use of the Basque media, and to encourage the language itself, i.e. to promote the eucalyptic consumption, or to promote sensitisation and motivation." And he goes on: "So we will continue to strengthen, structure, and promote the sector, and promote the pursuit of politicians, and the efforts of readers and of the visible audience. This will help us to finance the eucharistic media, and to support the use of the support on other media." That's where the extra book belongs. Epherence and efficiency, Mr. Maniro, which are both key factors in language policy or both. In this respect, it is intended to guard the system of communication, and to protect efficient media, the regulations of political education. In fact, since devotion and efficacy are to be continued in the other media, namely, advertising of more extensive and more public views, it must sometimes be said of the law with necessity, and the yellow efficacy and effertitude increase, because there will be more consumers at hand. What do I mean by this? You said that the classic media have more audiences, but it's proven that the little local press of eucalyptics often reach the place where no larger media are, and so the access of that publicity the government makes is satisfied if we put it in the eucalyptic media. That's efficiency and that's efficiency. If we add to it the internet's access to the world of digitalization and of new technology, we increase this efficacy and efficacy. And finally, the government has to design publicity, it belongs to her, and in doing this she has potential receivers to make all kinds of access. We see no sense in placing them in numbers, more or less, in our opinion, more or less, that it is better to do them according to reasonable opinions, because they have occasion to be improved and disputed in such matters. We cannot appreciate these customs according to the principles of the laws of the market, and the opinions of the revenue, because the state of the eucalyptus is another. That's right, and that's what the government does. And in addition to this, the media must themselves improve on their mutual support. We know that it is a matter of resistance that we need means to encourage weakness and the use of support, because they are very important. And that's why we have to guarantee public scholarships. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing the answers, Basque Socialists, Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u87	Mrs. President, I'll do it in a very short time. I thought I had clarified the issue that we are not talking about an initiative that aims to help finance, because we understand that institutional advertising, and I said it in my first speech, has other purposes. In this case, it addresses a different reality that did not exist ten years ago. If we don't understand where reality is, it's usually hard to get the right idea why we do it. But I said I'm going to be very brief. It's my duty today to welcome you everywhere. It's a morning worth... But I did want to clarify a subject. Too bad it's normal, isn't it? I mean, what a pity to be normal and to be able to say here calmly that our society in Portugalete is different from that of Getaria, and that there we speak in Spanish with a calmness of milk, and that questions are required, and, listen, that this does not imply the theme that someone tells you where you are and what evil you are in, I don't know where, but be normal in the implementation of what our citizens require, a normal and real policy. I believe that this is the basis and what citizens demand of us. And with one thing I'm done. Really, the socialists don't need Freud or any other psychiatrist. Really, we're very normal, and we don't have complexes. Our only complex is to get it right, and that is true, to get it right with the policies that they deserve and want and owe to the Basque citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u88	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Gather the Representative of the EH Group, Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u89	Thank you. Partners, president. Too bad, but you're not normal, Mr. Azkue. Being a Basque doesn't make us normal, and you're on this side on purpose. My dear madam, I have said it, we are not protected by language politics. Otherwise ask me how it is possible, in this case, what power the public television has to have to stop the broadcast of thousands of televisionrs. What is the support of our Navarre brother in front of him? What refuge have we, and have we in general, in the presence of the representatives of the Spanish Governments? Now he's cancelled the eucalyptic plan. What support do we have? The protection we have here on account of a legal proposition, which appears to be the majority to determine that it is a reason to postpone it. What support do we have? No protection. There are still many gaps. In the State Administration, for instance, there is an assimmetry, and we can't do so with so many examples, and there is no law that protects us so that we can do it. I'm talking about state administration, Mrs. Mountains, but there's that invisibility. Besides, I am informed, my dear Mr. Greatest, that you share that feeling in many areas. I don't deny it and we don't deny it, if Mr. Carmelo Barri has his own view here. It's a pity he doesn't know about it. A whole world. I would recommend it, they teach it pretty well in the AEK Basque shops, and it would be wonderful for you to really study it. The planning we make is because we reveal things which we do not often see, which have happened here, some people's consciences become confused, they move. And we are angry, and we are angry with all our consciences. It's not fiction, it happens in events. And in the case of the Euscay, you say, it was easy to say, 789 independence, one in the case of the average, and all the rest in the case of the battle. And there's 82% more this year, and it's been more and more years since this law. And in this Common-wealth, in this Holy House, where Laws are made, in this Holy House, where the Rights are maintained. Well, the consciousness of the Basques is getting bigger and bigger. And then they say I've got this kind of Taliban I've got, a pellma, and... Of the four themes of this day two belong to the eucalyptus, and have been brought by the population and by the Socialists, by chance. If there is this anxiety, and language policy, it is true that language requires the greatest possible harmony, and we try, from the point of view of normality, to the point of view, to the end that is the way. In this town, and it won't be too late, it'll be normal to communicate with euscs. It's a disease of isolation, Mr. Azkue, that's the evil. And here you mentioned yourself how many languages he knew about your son, and that's the way. The monotones have complete rights, each of us, in this plurality of our twoness and variety, because each of us is one-sided. And if you look at the rights of your language, those who are crushed are not so much of an Englishman as you know what they are to crush you at that time of writing. And then don't put that ghost down, it's no reason for fear. The rights of the people are always reserved here, and they will not be crushed or crushed. We'll hold on to ours. We also plan in the advertising institution to promote the use of the sustain more active policy than that. I wasn't in the middle of the day. And this way let him restore 15 percent of the year of the advertising institution to the media published by Euscanus. I'm convinced that one day we'll make an arrangement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u90	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Mr Barri, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u91	Thank you, President. Yes, Mr Azkue, indeed, with the compromise amendment you have decafeinated the original initiative a little bit. And the compromise amendment is already being done, Mr Azkue. It's something you're already doing! The two issues that come in the compromise amendment, are made: policies to support the media in Basque, are made, and establish the distribution of advertising, apply the principle of positive action and progressively increase the percentage received by non-public media in Basque... They do both! I mean, this is done, and, as I told you, this initiative is of little use. I mean, there are no complaints, no one complains about institutional advertising (we've seen it, I've explained it before), and you're asking for something that's already done. In other words, let me say to you – and I understand the approach you take, constructively, and good faith – that you are already doing, and that what this type of initiative promotes is that apocalyptic discourse, that discourse of the non-existent helplessness. Mr. Isasi, that is the point. And it also allows him to strike again against the State Administration, against the government delegate... Well, look, again, Elebide's memory, which is, as you know, the service of guaranteeing linguistic rights, complaints, suggestions regarding State administration in the Autonomous Community... Well, the complaints went down in 2015. They're down, Mr. Isasi. That is, that state administration, that government delegate who is always thinking about how to block the language rights of the Basques... The complaints have come down, and they are normal complaints that are arranged, that is, there is no special aggression. In that sense, Mr Isasi, in the politics of Basque and in Basque you like the wrong thing. You like the wrong roll. Every day there is better roll with the euskera, every day more people know it, progressively, is used more in all areas, in institutional advertising, in the media, people on the street, young people..., but you, Mr. Isasi, you in euskera likes the wrong roll. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u92	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u93	Mr Barrio said that this initiative is of little use. I don't know if you're referring to the transactional, which is certainly not useful, or if you're referring to the original. I think the original, more than not useful, is that it is a bad initiative, that proposes improper things and that even gives me the feeling that Mr Azkue does not even share. Because let's finally say he's changed his speech, and ended up signing a different thing with the Basque Nationalist Party. I demand a little rationality in everything that has to do with the Basque, but in general with politics. Let's see, institutional advertising is neither to subsidise certain media because they are in a bad economic situation, nor to try to establish good relations with certain media and that they can eventually become related media. Nor is it to promote a certain linguistic policy. The aim of institutional advertising is nothing like that. The aim of institutional advertising is to transfer to citizens certain information which affects them and which they are interested to know. There is no other objective of institutional advertising. It therefore makes no sense to increase institutional advertising in Basque, let alone to establish certain specific percentages. It has nothing to do with that. Institutional advertising must therefore be carried out, depending on what, in Spanish, on other occasions it will have to be in Basque, on other occasions it must appear in the media with greater dissemination, in other, indeed, it must also be collected in local media, local media in Basque, etc. So it has to be, so that such institutional advertising reaches as many people as possible in some case, in most cases, and in other specific cases it reaches a certain profile of the citizenry that is interested or interested in receiving that information. This is what has to be taken into account, nothing more. So don't argue about things that I don't think make any sense. And also, of course, we will have to bear in mind that in Euskadi we all know Spanish, and not all know Basque. And therefore, of course, most of the institutional advertising that is done will be in Spanish. But this is logical, logical you look where you look. And, of course, always defending efficiency, efficiency and rationality. Mr Azkue, you are very normal, a good guy and a great parliamentarian, but you certainly have not had your day today. I'm asking you to focus. And Mr. Isasi, take care of himself. Thank you. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u94	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Finally, the Eucabertarians represent the group, Mrs. Great Mountain, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u95	Mr. Isas, have you found out now the legal frame, the legal frame we're working on? Don't you know we're working on a self-engine team to change that frame and make our choices? On the other hand, you're saying today is useless. So, what are you doing here? If your proposal is valid and not ours, we can't get to the agreement. You'll have to admit that if yours is good, ours is worth it, so we can get to a agreement with that. I'll have the words from my teammate Gorospe. "What do we do to the Basque if we bring such and such matters here as the previous point? "I don't know. And this is where I mean to mention the words that Kiomorides, when the Gipuzinous Fordunda gave him Anton Abadia Prize, said in the last December, and said to him: "If we wish to make the next generation strong in the course of language-normalization, our generation must give it a broad and deep sopolitical arrangement. If we wish to construct a society which will have a bond, a common channel, and a common soil, it is necessary that the theme of the eucalyptic matter should be used; for our purpose is not only to study a language or a grammar, but to be a member of a living and active language." The new Euskarian cycle, they say, is new, which has recently spread between most of the Basque agents and the institutions, that is to say, new winds are blowing. The fumes of these new winds ought to lead us to the benefit of our language. The use of Euskara for public training, for supposed votes, is to damage the house. We should hold on to these new winds and not be involved in the eternal whirl.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the media that Euskal Socialists and Eucaists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of the party, 42; the contrary, 11; white; 1; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u97	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. The list of subjects is exhausted and the plune is over, but you'll give me a moment-- Mr. Ares, who's been here together for many years, leaves his legal character to-day, and I'd like to promise him his thanks to bid him farewell. Mr. Ares, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u98	Thank you, Madam President, for giving me the floor in this last plenary in this House. I'll make a brief intervention to say good-bye to all of you. And to you and to all the Members I have agreed with in this House, I would like to thank you for the understanding, respect and affection that you have always shown me. I would like to use this speech to apologize to those who have been able to offend with my speeches. I have always defended my positions firmly, passionately, even often harshly, but I never intended to hurt anyone. In any case, I can assure you that I have always intended to combine confrontation and political debate with personal respect. In those cases where he has not succeeded, I apologize. More than twenty years ago I came to this House with the experience gained in responsibilities within the party, as a councillor or foral deputy. I came full of strength, passion, with the illusion of working for a better and peaceful Euskadi. Today I say goodbye older, tireder, but also to the satisfaction of having achieved one of the desired goals. That same commitment will always continue: to continue to help in what it can to make this society a society that is progressing, that is more tolerant, fairer and more egalitarian. These years that I have shared with you and other parliamentarians have been exciting and dizzying years. The most important moments have not been missed, but also the difficult and hard ones. One of the hardest moments of my life was, without a doubt, having to assume the voice when we missed Fernando Buesa. And I say to cover as spokesman of the Socialist Group Fernando because Fernando was not replaced; Fernando was irreplaceable. I want, remembering Fernando, to remind all the victims of terrorist violence, who will always be in my memory. Today I leave parliamentary activity; I do so for personal and family reasons, to devote more time to my small but big family. Of course, I will not leave politics, but it will not be in full dedication as I have for decades, nor will it be in the front line. I will continue to help my party to gain the support of the citizenry and to make and carry out the projects we represent, which, in short, is to achieve a better society. I would like to thank my party, the voters in Bilbao and Bizkaia, who have elected me as a councillor, as an outlaw or as a parliamentarian on so many occasions. Of course, the lehendakari Patxi López for having appointed me as a member of his government. It's been a great honor. I would like to thank my colleagues in the Socialist Group, the workers of the house, especially the workers of the Socialist Group, for their support in my parliamentary tasks, their affection and their support. To the media, for allowing me to move my ideas, apologizing to them, because I have probably not listened to them properly at times. Some old journalists in the place already know how I am. Thanks in a special way to the companions who during this time have worked side by side with me. They've stood up to my screams and always helped me. All of them, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, nothing more. I wish you the best of heart. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ares... (Applause) Good luck in that new route. Since the list of subjects is over, I look upon the whole meeting as complete. It was two o'clock in the afternoon.
