ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. And we'll begin the gathering with a minute's silence, in honor of Fernando Bues and Enrique Casas. [[Pause]] First point in theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of the Social Socialists Blanca Roncal Azanza, the treatments given against C hepatitis in 2015. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Roncal Azanza, it's yours to introduce and take care of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u1	Madame President, Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning to all. I would first like to welcome the group of representatives of the hepatitis C patient group who have come today to take into account the things that are being debated in this plenary of Parliament about the support that this parliamentary group and this Parliament in general wants to give the hepatitis C patient group. I will start by saying that this is not the first time that this Parliament has been discussing the problems that hepatitis C is causing, or the problems that have been arising since the emergence of new treatments because they are very expensive and that is causing certain problems. The counselor was asked two Fridays about the plan the department had with the patient group, what resources it had to offer the patient group as treatment, as well as how many patients were awaiting treatment. Since this honourable Member who made the inquiry did not agree, because she did not receive the answers to the questions she asked, we have made this motion. This motion calls on Parliament to support a series of decisions that encourage the Government and the Health Adviser to make decisions with the patient group. Because the counselor, last Friday, told us what the Autonomous Community has done since 2014, when the new treatments began to appear; what it did in 2015, when the new treatments were already fully implemented; what it has done for many years about prevention, diagnosis and patient control. But you did not answer any of the specific questions you were asked about how many patients are awaiting treatment, at what stage of severity of your illness they are and how long you consider, Mr. Counsellor, that the Government needs to take care of everyone. Because the will of this Parliament is for everyone to be treated, and we want to know how long the person responsible for this offer to the patient group estimates it needs to deal with everyone's treatment. We already know that treatment cannot be given to all at once, but we want to know which group of patients is pending treatment and how long it takes for them to receive treatment. The counselor wondered if there are other autonomous communities or other health services that do it better, and he said that in Euskadi it could not be done better, because they lack professionals, because it would be unwise to use these treatments in an indiscriminate way... We have never asked you to treat the group of patients indiscriminately, but to treat those patients for whom doctors have prescribed new drugs. And the counselor also told us that in 2015 they had spent 27 million euros on treatments, so that we would see that they do not cut, that they do not want not to spend, that it is not an economic problem – he insisted several times – and that two thirds of the patients had been treated. If that is the case, there is only one third left to be treated; and if it has been possible to treat in 2015 two thirds, the most serious, we do not see why the counselor does not risk saying that the missing third will be able to affect it in 2016. The case is that there was no compromise, and there was no report on what this Parliament wants to know: how many patients are waiting for treatment, how serious these patients are. Because you already know that these patients, according to severity, are classified into four or five types of patients. Well, the first group, the F-4 group, which means that they already have a very important degree of liver fibrosis, or that they have another series of complications added, would theoretically be completed by January 2016. Neither did he tell us if they were all treated by the end of 2016, so we still don't know if we have very serious patients still awaiting treatment and if the next step of patients pending treatment, which would be the F-3, will be treated in 2016, and what will happen to the F-2 and F-1. It gives the impression, with the explanations given by the counselor, that this is a newly diagnosed disease and finds us unarmed: we don't have doctors, we don't have hospitals, we don't have beds... Yes, sir, hepatitis C and another series of hepatitis and another series of liver problems have existed in Euskadi for a very long time, and health resources offered to them through doctors specialists in hepatology; there are specific digestive beds for hepatology, laboratory tests and specific tests there are and have been done for a lot of years. The only novelty is the last test that was incorporated at least a couple of years ago in Euskadi, which was to determine the degree of fibrosis that the liver has through an apparatus called fibroscan. The counselor didn't tell us either. All the information that this Parliament has, that we have the members of the Committee on Health, we have practically because the group of patients has transferred it to us. The group of patients is the one who moves us into what situation they are in, how many of them – because they are not all affiliated or collected within this group – are awaiting treatment and what degree of disease evolution they have. All the information we have about the group of patients comes from patient platforms, so we have to blame this government, and the counselor in particular, for an intolerable degree of opacity. It can't be. This Parliament wants to know the data. You tell us it's not an economic problem, it's a health problem. I don't know what the problem is, but believe me, counselor, we already have little confidence in you. Little confidence in the data he gives us. And there is no confidence in respect for the agreements that this Parliament makes, because we have made several agreements to treat hepatitis C patients and have served to keep them, as one of its colleagues says, in the register of non-compliances. The first time this MP asked the department how many hepatitis C patients were in Euskadi, she was told we didn't know. The department didn't know how many patients had hepatitis C. But what we all need to know below is that hepatitis C disease is mandatory, any doctor who finds a hepatitis C patient has an obligation to communicate. Therefore, all known hepatitis C patients are declared in Euskadi and these data are available from the department. Not only does he have them, but he also has an obligation to send them to Madrid together with the rest of the autonomous communities, to know the dimension of the problem. Because this is a public health problem. Once again we have to tell the counselor that the data we know either comes from the patient group, or from the Official Gazette, because you did not want to give them to us. We do not know how many medicines this year is going to buy and how much money is going to be spent; we have had to locate it in the Official Gazette, although it is an open auction, which does not mean that it will spend everything that is planned there. I would also like to tell you that once again in hepatitis C we are late, we arrive at rebuf, we arrive because Parliament is committed. Exactly the same as in other things. You will remember, Mr. Counsellor, one of the first interventions, "This is not going to be the brick legislature", as if in health the brick meant real estate bubble. You wanted to make an equalization between building houses to do business and building a hospital or improving an operating room, as if it were something like that. That's a manipulation that can't be accepted and we don't accept it at the time. I would like to say the same about another series of statements he made, "We will not do this, we will not do the other," and then Parliament's insistence has forced you to reconsider, because it was indeed necessary. We also want Parliament to encourage you to react, to encourage you to bring – this agreement we have made between EH Bildu and the Socialist Party and we believe that other groups will also support it – in two months' time what we have asked you twenty-five thousand times. Compromise! Comply with Parliament, bring the data we want, tell us which group of patients we have pending treatment and how hard it will be to treat it. You will already be looking for the money, but if you need it, we have already told you more than once that this Parliament is open to improving the budget in the pharmacology chapter, in case you need to increase that chapter. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u3	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Good morning, too, for all of you who have come to this debate on the platform of the 'C hepatitis'. As we mentioned here, we're talking about "C" again about hepatitis, and we're going to put commitments on this staff again. It's not the first time. Again talking about hepatitis C in this House, in the Basque Parliament, and again we are going to place duties on the Basque Government, in particular the Department of Health, on this issue. Undoubtedly, the emergence of new antiviral drugs has been a clear advance in the treatment of hepatitis C to prevent the disease from progressing. It is true that these drugs are expensive, but at the same time it is evidenced and verified that they prevent the progress of the disease, the symptoms, that you can get to the transplant and even, as it is obvious, avoid hospital income. In January 2015, a committee of experts was set up chaired by Professor Rodés and a professional from Osakidetza was added to the committee of experts. Following this committee of experts, the Strategy for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System was approved with the current minister, Mr Alfonso Alonso, and it must be said that this was a milestone and a very important challenge for the different health systems of the different autonomous communities. A strategy for the care of hepatitis C in the Basque Country was also launched in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. But we reported it from the Popular Party several times in this business of ours. On the one hand, we have accused him of want of transparency, and this government has not filled his cares. We have denounced from the People's Party and today we also want to denounce and criticise from this rostrum the lack of transparency of the Basque Government in relation to the lack of information that should have been given about the patients who have already been treated, the patients who have not been cared for, with a special reference to the phase in which they are present, with the budget intended to care for the sick and also the time needed to give care to all the patients with hepatitis C, who, as we all know and have been said here very graphically by Mrs Roncal, are classified at different stages according to the degree of seriousness. In our view, and we have also reflected this in the various debates we have had on this issue, there has been a drop in the responsibility of this Government, because hepatitis C patients have been denied treatment. Even in successive appearances and following various testimonies of those affected who have the credibility of those who are suffering from the disease and who suffer the damage of any delay in giving the treatments, we had news even of patients classified as F-4 who were prescribed treatment and not authorized. It is true that due to certain demands, pressures, some cases have been dealt with. Therefore, from this group we have also shown and wanted to criticize this discretion in giving the treatments, which, as we have seen, in some cases has been evident and notorious, far from the objective criteria that must prevail when giving this kind of treatments. We too have denounced the discrimination of those affected by hepatitis C in this Autonomous Community with respect to other autonomous communities, because this has also reflected the testimony that patients from other autonomous communities were being treated and patients were not being treated in Euskadi. We therefore believe that there has been a clear injury to hepatitis C patients in Euskadi. On this we also asked the counselor a question in a full control, and obviously the counselor denied the largest one. But I want to say that reality is what it is, and the facts show it and the testimonies show it. And the most obvious proof of this is that we have once again had to bring the hepatitis C debate here and there will again be a pronouncement urging the Basque Government to fulfil its duties. In short, from the People's Group we believe that there is a clear lack of political will on the part of the Executive in the care of these sick. And we say that there is a clear lack of political will because the councilman himself two weeks ago, in the answer to the question, told us that there would be money, the one that is needed, that no one will be left untreated by an economic problem. Also in the answer he gave to the question we put in a full check, this group was told by Mr Darpón, the adviser, that it is not an economic problem because the departure is expandable. We therefore ask again here today, in this rostrum, the Basque Government, the Councillor: if it is not an economic problem, if the departure is extendable, if no one who needs treatment is going to be left untreated, Mr Councillor, where is the problem? Because, of course, we do not understand this from the People's Group. We do know, as you have pointed out here in your many explanations when you were urged by this House to come to Parliament, that Osakidetza was providing the new treatments on a step-by-step basis and that, in that sense, patients are being treated on a progressive basis. But we have also made it very clear from the People's Group that prioritization in different groups and patients cannot be an excuse for not giving treatment to all patients who need it. And even more serious is the case that in some cases the treatment was prescribed and the prescription of these treatments was not authorized. That is why, from the People's Group, we tabled an amendment along the lines of the texts that we tabled when this initiative was also discussed and along the lines of what we claim in the question we put, urging the Basque Government to guarantee treatment for all hepatitis C patients, in accordance with the clinical criteria set out in the Strategic Plan for the Approach to Hepatitis C in the National Health System, approved by all the Autonomous Communities, including the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. On the other hand, on a second point, we urge the Basque Government to submit a report within two months, with the timetable and budget intended to treat all the patients during 2016, specifying the number of patients who are to be treated and the stage in which they are to be treated. These issues, for the most part, have been reflected in the signed compromise amendment, and therefore, as we have always maintained a consistent position in demanding, once again urging the Basque Government to treat all patients with hepatitis C with clinical criteria, we will approve this compromise amendment which has been presented to us today. And let us hope that this is the last time we have to bring this debate to this House, giving this executive a new earshake for a new breach of the commitments made.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u4	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, gentlemen and gentlemen, good morning. Good morning, too, as well as the representatives of the Hepatatitis platform: welcome to this parliament. We will discuss this time again in this legislature, in order to improve the state of the patients caused by the Hepatitis. We have hitherto expressed the same attitude, in many and different kinds of initiative, all the parlamentary groups of opposition; We've agreed and agreed to a few verbal questions, an example, or another legal proposition. And yet we have many doubts. That means we don't see the light we're asking for on this subject in the government. That's why today's motion, the discussion of today. EH Collect does not doubt that since 1990s, the disease has been known, the patients caused by C hepatitis have received treatment. But two years ago, a new inflexiation of direct anti-virtal influence came on the appearance of a new influencies. At that moment, two years ago, we understand and share the hope and illusion that arose between the sick. Illusion and joy for the appearance of new medicines, but also anger for the conduct of the medical authorities. There has been a lack of clarity so far, and we think it's no good either for the people or, of course, for the sick. So that's what we're about to be right about today's discussion. We are talking about a disease, an infection that chronicles in 70% of cases. It is the first cause of cirrhosis, liver carcinoma and liver transplantation. A disease that we have the opportunity to eradicate, in that we agree with the Government. Let us remember that the strategic lines of action set out in the Order of July 2015 of Councillor Darpón are as follows: to determine the magnitude of HCV infection and chronic hepatitis, to promote preventive measures to prevent the transmission of HCV, to define a therapeutic and clinical care action plan, to promote communication with the population in general and with the people affected. This is not all an EH Collection idea. According to the order of the chief Darpón's department, these four lines are to take care of the hepatitis. But it's obvious, and you'll agree, it's not exactly what he wants to do. I mean, we don't have the exact number of people who are suffering sickness nowadays. So the first strategic work ring hasn't been completed. Not only that, but the numbers vary, and even if we asked the chief physician more than once, we couldn't get them. On the other hand, we don't know whether the communal campaign has started or not. But, to tell you the truth, we've never seen a report on this disease, an advertisement, or a pedagogical material. That's why we question the level of the filling of this strategic order. Another issue, the most important and the most controversial, is patient access to the latest generation of antivirals. According to government data, more than 1,500 patients have been treated so far, most with a very advanced degree of fibrosis, i.e. an F-4. We continue to argue that where the Government sees equity, we miss it. We do not know whether they are talking about equity among all people, among Osakidetza patients, or equity among patients suffering from this disease. More than once we have shown our disagreement on this issue. Is it fair that patients who are not at that stage have to get worse enough to receive this treatment? That's why we're asking him to give it back to all the patients who have the hepatitis to be treated with a new anti-organist, following the clinical criteria and not looking at the financial expense that would lead to. On the other hand, according to you, we're not in front of a financial problem, are we? So if we consider that this year the line of $27 million is located, and that the prices of these drugs have been significantly decreased, the people who are involved in the year 2016 will be doubled, right? That's how it should be, according to this simple and simplified calculation, because in 2016, it's budgetd to take care of 2,500, 3,000 new anti-Rivel people. But we're sure that Mr. Darpón's calculations will be more specific, and that's exactly what we're asking for today. This is the second point of the media which we have signed today, and which is the chronogram which the chief physician manipulates. We ask the government to bring to this Parliament, and within three months, a specific schedule to care for all people with hepatitis C. We want to know the total number of patients that exist, and also the degree of progression of their disease, because today we do not know in which state they are incorporated into the treatment. As we have indicated, we haven't had enough clarity around the budget. That's why we want to know exactly how much money it's been used to buy those new medicines up to now. That's what we're asking you to do at three o'clock in the middle. And the worries we've been showing are just examples. There are many more, unfortunately. For example, we have often accused that some specialists, according to their medical standards, demand new medicine, but that these direct and direct anti-virtal influences against the hepatitis do not reach patients. This example has been stated in three cases, four times today, in public. Nobody denied it. But no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Dot, ya no es problema que los specicistas prescriban estos comiendos, porquedirectente no lo pueden hacer, averdad? Nor do we know what protocol is applied in the event that treatment fails. We know that this situation occurs in only about 10% of cases, but we do not know what measures are being taken in these cases. We do not know exactly what treatment health workers are receiving, which is also affected by hepatitis C virus. And in the meantime, the patient care service continues to respond to people who file a complaint with a typical letter, a model that in this case uses and brings to all patients equally, regardless of their situation, the degree of progression of their disease or the treatment they are receiving. An absolutely impersonal letter, which on more than one occasion we have also denounced. Finally, through the medium we have signed, we hope to change the state of these patients, and to clear out all the information we're proclaiming. In three months' time, it'll have to be a happy presentation at the Board of Health, and it'll be an opportunity to settle the themes we've made today, and a lot more for once. That's right, if he always does this parliamentary command. That's all right with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u7	The chief physician, the chief physician, all the members of the legislature, good morning to all. First of all, I'd like to say solidarity to everyone who has the disease of hepatitis. Ms. Roncal, as you told us on February 5, we're on our way today to the conclusion of the interrelation. In my opinion, the act, the stage, agrees with the speech we have heard today. Mrs Roncal, I recognize you, I see reality through a crystal, my crystal, and when I hear the Salburu Darpón answer all your questions, I recognize that I agree with him in his way of seeing reality and acting to improve it. I recognize this, I share ideological substratum, solidarity and social justice, which make us put people at the centre of political action. I share teamwork methodology and criteria in resource management, prioritizing with clinical and equity criteria. And I appreciate the disposition always made by the Sailburu and his team before this Parliament, which I am aware is also highly appreciated by you. I recognize all this. But today I wanted to do an exercise that costs me, and I also recognize it. It is about removing that crystal, my crystal, and approaching the debate that you raise without it. You put to us a debate on the lack of information from the Government towards Parliament, a lack of data, in your opinion, on what has already been done and what is planned to be done in the fight against hepatitis C. And as we approach a first analysis, we find two initial documents in this debate: the justification for his January 22 question and the justification for his February 8 motion. Only 17 days separate these two justifications, and, simply reading them, we observe a very clear contradiction between the two: recognition of the existence of information in the former and recognition of lack of information in the latter. Mrs Roncal, and first of all, the first thing you have to do is coordinate with yourself, I understand. Since the implementation of the strategy for the care of hepatitis C in Euskadi in February 2015, which reflects the work that the working group for the treatment of the disease has been developing since January 2014, I understand that there are three moments to be highlighted from a parliamentary point of view. Keys from the parliamentary point of view; in the health field, many more milestones have been achieved during that time. First, the text of 25 June 2015 on the motion of EH Bildu. Secondly, the Government's appearance on 7 October at the request of our parliamentary group. And thirdly, the question of last February 5th; your question, Mrs Roncal. The text passed (four points) seemed to us to be a very interesting text, on which we had much more coincidences than disagreements. You know that we made a great effort to approach positions and worked from the belief that it was substantially improveable. It couldn't have been in the end. We wanted to add, but Mrs. Blanco's usual courtesy did not allow us. The Government's appearance is fundamental, responding to the basic approaches of the text that was being transacted. For me, this appearance is fundamental, as it reflects globally what the care strategy means, from the principles on which it is based to the results obtained, through its conceptual approaches and lines of action. The Government has developed its strategy against this new scenario of scientific development. Finding ourselves in the face of new scenarios is something that has happened to us in the world of health on more occasions. The counselor said: "We have been in Osakidetza for more than 30 years incorporating drugs that have added value and incorporating them according to science and legality." And we know that it is essential to design well to build well and to achieve good results, and we also know that it is essential to move away from improvisation. A strategy with four lines of action; Mrs Blanco reminded us of them and I am not going to make any more impact. The first line, the knowledge of magnitude. The second, preventive measures, that attempt to control the frequency of entry. The third line, the action plan that was moved to us in detail. And the fourth line, the line of communication. In addition, all the data were transferred to us in October 2015, in a very visual transparency, where a multitude of optics were developed: geographical equity by territory, sustained increase in the number of people treated, timetables, calendars of immediate response, the entry of medication, difficulties and more specific complexities, such as cases of co-infected and peri-transplanted. A summary of the use of new therapies, new antivirals as of October 2015: 1,402 people treated out of 2,367 people affected, 59.2%. The third moment, the answers of the Sailburu to his interpellation. You criticise, Mrs Roncal, in your justification of this motion to the Sailburu. He said that he merely showed his solidarity and talked about the principles governing Osakidetza's actions. Indeed, he showed solidarity and spoke of principles, but it is objective – and there he has the transcript, and at the moment I have not placed any crystals – that he did not only do that. I would perhaps be lost at the time and then you have to go to the Official Gazette and these things that you have told us. But he didn't just do that. In addition to that, he reminded us of the basics of the strategy, and, in addition to that, he basically provided us with data. If I had to stick a stick to the saltburu response, I'd tell you it's too much data-filled response. In the intervention of the Sailburu we found all the answers to his 16 questions, the 8 he made in the first round and the 8 he made in the second round. Read it, read it. It updates the data that we were given to October 2015, updates them to December 2015 and January 2016. In summary: October 2015, 1,402, which we have commented on, on 2,367; December 2015, 1,533 on 2,367, (from 59.2% of October data to 64.8%, almost 65%); January 2016, 1,666 on 2,367, 70.4%. 60, 65, 70, getting closer to the goal, the eradication of hepatitis C. Don't you see, Mrs. Roncal? You don't see it either? 60, 65, 70, months a month. I don't think you see it. And following that universal saying that there is no greater blind than the one who does not want to see, I sincerely believe and without my crystal that you do not want to see. You, Mrs Roncal, are aware that you are transmitting a false image. You know that there is not a single person in Euskadi who is affected by this disease, nor by anyone else, who is denied the most suitable treatment. There you are with this responsibility. This is a complex challenge. It is not a purely economic issue, it is a health challenge: specialized health resources, experiences, changing scenarios, professionals, consultations, controls, diagnostic tests, clinical safety. A complex challenge. And it is a challenge, a challenge we face guaranteeing a reality: all those affected are perfectly cared for. And it is a challenge, a challenge that represents a great opportunity: to make a disease disappear. And it is a challenge in which all the people of our Community are winning: 60, 65, 70. Good data, good news. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u8	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing to a group that didn't run any corrections, Mistto. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u9	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. It is pointed out in the justification of the motion put forward by the Socialist Group that, given the lack of information provided by the Government to the Basque Parliament, we find it difficult to know whether treatment for hepatitis C stage 4 patients has been completed in January, and even the total number of patients affected by this disease as of January 2016. I believe that what this justification demonstrates is the lack of information and the lack of transparency on the part of the Basque Government. I believe that this is a complaint that we share with all the parliamentary groups and I believe that this is partly a consequence of Mr Darpón's stubbornness. If I left that boxing aside and was able to better explain the things it does well, I think we would all appreciate that good work when it happened, if it did. In the inquiry to the Health Adviser, he wondered whether it was the intention of the Basque Government to extend treatment to the patients to whom their doctors had prescribed such treatment, what their strategy was for 2016, as well as the number of patients pending treatment and the money earmarked for 2015 and the one planned for 2016. Faced with this request, we share with Mrs Roncal that the counselor basically limited himself to showing his solidarity with the sick, as well as to saying that the principles governing Osakidetza's actions are equity and quality, despite the fact that there are a third of patients still to be treated. Mrs Roncal in that inquiry summarizes the situation. That patients qualify as F-1 to F-4 based on their degree of fibrosis, that treatments are prioritizing F-4, that new drugs are very expensive, but that conventional treatments are also expensive. Mrs Roncal recalls that Parliament has already spoken in favour of treating all patients with hepatitis C, regardless of their degree of condition, not just the F-4. Ms. Roncal asks the counselor if treatment has been completed for all F-4s, as was said to be happening by January 2016, how much it was destined for 2015 and how much it is going to be spent in 2016, what is the strategy for 2016, etc. Mr Darpón said that everyone would be treated only on the basis of medical and fairness criteria. Mr Darpón reports on the committees that were set up and on the strategy adopted in 2015 and returns the question to Mrs Roncal, asking her whether hepatitis C has been eradicated anywhere in the world, or whether any autonomous community is treating all patients, as she claims. Mr Darpón points out that it is impossible because of the lack of health resources and because it would be unwise because of the lack of experience and the continuous changes in treatments. Mr Darpón pointed out that 1,533 patients had been treated with new antivirals in 2015 and that such action had cost EUR 27 million. Mr Darpón states that in 2015 two thirds of the patients surveyed and known in hospitals were treated when defining the strategy. By confusing this Parliament with the Congress of Deputies, he says that in Spain he set himself as the horizon for these treatments three years and here he has managed to do so in a year. But we, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, think that there is always room for improvement, and this is what we also want with the support for that compromise that two parliamentary groups have signed. Mrs Roncal asked whether that remaining third was going to be dealt with this year and reiterated the same questions as in the first intervention. The counselor says that in 2016 treatment of F-3s and those with low fibrosis rates, of those who have responded poorly to treatment and of new patients who are emerging, has begun. From there, the motion put forward by the Socialist Group, which has been supplemented by contributions from other groups, to finally put to the vote the compromise that has been signed. At the time we support that the treatment was universal, for all affected, regardless of the degree of liver disease. We agreed and agreed with Mrs Roncal that all the sick are entitled to treatment. Almost all the most serious patients and some of the other stages with less fibrosis are already treated, and it seems that throughout this year it is intended to reach all the others. But, as we insist on all groups, there is a lack of transparency, a lack of clear commitment on the part of the Department of Health. And I'm saying that I think this is happening as a result of the counselor's head office. If he were to leave that boxing aside, surely his work would be better seen by the whole House, by the sick themselves and by the whole citizenry. Therefore, what we are asking the Government to do is to provide clarity, information and to act with maximum transparency. But, in any case, there is debate and a compromise vote. And I, observing each of the points of this transactional that has been signed, believe that they are all just claims. The Government is urged to ensure treatment with new antivirals for all people with hepatitis C, following the approved clinical criteria and without repairing at the cost of doing so. The Government is requested to develop a specific schedule for all patients with hepatitis C. The Government is requested to submit a detailed budget report for the coverage of new treatments for hepatitis C patients during 2016. And finally, as it could not be otherwise, we sympathize with the sick and ask that the sick, and all of us in the end, be able to access as much information as possible. In short, I believe that these are just demands and therefore I think that this compromise could be supported by all the groups in the House, also by the Basque Nationalist group. We will, in any case, vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u10	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u11	Thank you, President. Parliament is a protected area, here everyone comes and says what they think. But today we have other witnesses, we have witnesses, and it's a group of patients organized on a platform. Do you think that if you didn't need treatment, you would have to be organized on a platform that requires treatment? Let's be serious, let's not lie. There is a group of patients who demand treatment because they do not receive it. How would you like me to come – am I going to set the example of cancer? No, I've already put it on some other occasion – a diabetic diagnosed with diabetes and let's say, "Go home, diet, and when you're blind, come back, we'll help you then; or when you need kidney transplantation because diabetes has destroyed your kidneys, then we'll give you treatment"? Well, that's what's been done. What's going on is that we're not being so dramatic, but there's already been deaths. And there have been people who were in F-4 who have not received the treatment and by the time they called him he had passed away. It is true that they are the least and it is true that the F-4, that is, the most serious, are being treated. But it is that in the strategy that was approved in Madrid, with the participation of all the autonomous communities, it was already said that beginning with the most serious, but continuing with the others. It's good to take your hair. Equity is not just treating the most serious and the others, when they are serious, come back. No, no. Equity is to treat everyone according to their need. We started with the F-4s and transplants, because they are the vulnerable, and those with other diseases added at the same time. We started with those, but we're not going to demand that the F-3 evolve more seriously to receive the treatment. The same is true of F-1 and F-0, who are sick, even if they do not have such altered liver. Sickness are and have a lot of virus, and viral load, which is what you have to look at to see the degree of disease, is not looking as much as liver damage. And the chairman of the committee who approved the treatment strategy also said: "The F-0, which have no liver involvement, are sick and also need treatments." In other words, the whole group of patients needs treatment, starting with the F-0 and ending with the F-4, all of them. And something is failing in Basque health. And don't give us that kind of nonsense to see if there's anyone who's finished with hepatitis C. Then we go around, boasting that we are the richest, the most we spend per person. Do you know how much the Community of Madrid has spent on treatments for the hepatitis C group? Or how many have you dealt with? He's treated 8,000, and we've treated 1,533. Let him know. We're the ones who theoretically spend more per capita, but I don't know where that money goes. Of course, the group of hepatitis C patients is not getting along as necessary and with due care. So less hair removal and more adjusting the belt with other things and giving treatment to the whole group, and telling us how long it will take to give this treatment. As it is not an economic problem, and we believe you, I hope you can take care of that third of patients that you lack to take care of, that you can do it to everyone in 2016. Because a third is five hundred and a half. If 1,533 were two-thirds – do the math – he has little left. Because I imagine that the new diagnoses of unknown hepatitis so far will be dripping; we will not suddenly find large groups who were sick and did not know it, will be a few. So let's go back to telling the hepatitis C patient group that we're with them. We believe that the whole group should receive the treatment and that there must be a commitment of time for them to also know when they are going to receive the treatment, how long they have to wait; when they are going to receive the treatment and when their problem will be solved. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u13	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. I think the subject is clear. The facts are there. The claim of the sick is also reflected in successive appearances in this Parliament, because it has not been one, and the attitude of this Government on this issue is also clear. The truth is that it is incomprehensible, when the councilman himself has repeatedly pointed out that it was not an economic problem, when the councilman himself was a bit of a beacon – to put it mildly – when the Spanish Government and the Ministry of Health took specific measures to help finance the autonomous communities' new treatments for the acquisition of new antiviral drugs, and here it was said that no, that there was no need for money, because here it seems that we were very rich. That aid was rejected, that possibility of financing new drugs, and we are as we are. That is true, the adviser repeatedly, and every time we talk about this subject, he points out that it is not an economic problem. We therefore conclude that this is a clear problem of lack of political will on this issue. This seems to us more serious when above it seems that the counselor has the money available and when moreover the advisor himself has said here that this item is expandable. Therefore, when we are faced with an expandable heading, this heading is extended to meet existing demands and existing needs, which appear to be, and on the basis of the data that are there and the data that the counselor gave, that there are still patients affected by hepatitis C who are unattended. And the facts are also indisputable, as has been denounced by the platform and sick people who have come to this Parliament, who I imagine will not be out of love for art organized on a platform claiming what they are claiming, and claiming that the Basque Government and Osakidetza do the duties... He said that it is also clear that here, in this Autonomous Community, where we have all often drawn our hearts from the fact that we have been pioneers in many treatments, in the provision of many services, in this particular area we have left the last in the queue, the last in the queue, because of a clear lack of will on the part of this Government and this department. I was going to give the figures, but Mrs Roncal has already said them. And he has also cited an autonomous community that I believe is being an example in the treatment of these patients. Mr Councilman – and I do not think the subject is to smile too much, especially with the sick here in this Chamber, listening to these interventions – let us hope that this initiative will serve to ensure that once and for all the Basque Government does its duties and does what it has to do, which is, in this case, to care for all the patients affected by hepatitis C, with those criteria of equity, solidarity, as is being done in the rest of Spain.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u14	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Lady Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u15	Thanks again. I only come down to the groups that have not signed their voices and say a few things to Mr. Adarz. Patients are sure to thank you for your solidarity. But surely that is not what they want; what they want are solutions. They have not come here to spend one or two hours, to hear how you sympathize with them; surely they expect something more from this Parliament. And to his crystals, which he says he looks at, I sincerely recommend that he give them a cloth, because one they have another stain. He says that he stands on the side of the government – he doesn't have to say it, seeing his amendment as we are quite clear – but that he has also tried to do an exercise in trying to understand the rest of the groups in this House. In view of your amendment, it seems difficult to understand, because you call for the further development of the Government's four lines of action, with which so many good results are being achieved. And you say that, as to this day, Parliament, through the Committee on Health, should be kept informed of the steps taken to eradicate this disease. Seeing this amendment, I do not know how you want it, how you expect us to try to reach an agreement. Because, based on this, we probably wouldn't be debating here today. If what we want is to maintain, to continue everything as until today, we would not be wasting time. But it is something else that happens and we consider the rest of the groups. Do you really think that groups as diverse as EH Bildu, UPyD, the People's Party and the Socialist Group have even four times agreed in this Parliament to approve the same thing? Don't you give it a thought? The whole opposition, and you and the government. It would be good if he stopped positioning himself so much and acting as a spokesman for the Government in this case, and sympathizing, yes, but, with facts, with the patients. He named me on his first shift. I know that he does it from affection, the appreciation he has for me; surely he will also do it in the second intervention, but, as I cannot go out again, something else I will tell him. You have even accused us of theatres, of making theaters in this House. Yeah, sanitizers and I don't know what else. I will tell you the same thing I told you in a committee: what we demonstrate with our facts and our speeches is sensitivity and empathy for the patients, which I really miss in you. We identify ourselves with what other speakers have said; therefore, we are not going to repeat ourselves. I simply say that, if you put the point vote on this occasion, I will do that exercise and I will be just as good as Mr Iturrate, and on this occasion we will not hinder you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u17	Thank you. Actually, Mrs. Blanco, I have to think. It gives me everyone to think against the government. It gives me a lot to think about, it gives me a lot to think about. I think it's obvious what I think. It is a complete strategy against small details or small pearls that some in their occurrences throws. They are not small actions, it is a complete strategy, dealing with an issue from a complete strategy, Mrs Roncal. And the results are there. And we'll see a lot of better results, but they're already very good. Thank you to Mr Maneiro for his excellent summary, although I do not agree with you at the beginning of it. You gave us a great summary in which we were able to see that the adviser was answering all the questions Mrs Roncal asked her, one by one; those eight in the first round and eight in the second round. A great summary, thank you very much. Margin of improvement, I agree with you. There's always room for improvement, and that's where we're at. With regard to the comparative health of which Mrs Roncal, also Mrs Garrido, was also speaking to us. I don't like to talk about comparative health, I like to focus on our own. He was talking about 8,000 treaties in Madrid, you brought him here. How many more to deal with in Madrid? How many more left to try? Don't tell us what Madrid is, what we are. We are focused on our own and we know where we are: 60, 65, 70. In 70, close to the goal of eradication. How many are left in Madrid? Closer than yesterday. And its theatricalization – and following Mrs. Blanco's words – that way of theatricalizing in front of people who suffer. With that first chapter – which has not been given here, which was given at another time – with that small amendment to the budget. Yeah, part of the theater. Solidarity, solidarity, solidarity, Yes, solidarity, it's essential. And we continue in solidarity, but not only in solidarity; we continue in solidarity and action and you know it. And there's the data. When we are sick, it is hard to wait; it is hard to wait for the advance of treatments, for the advance of research. But when we are sick, we also know how to value progress (60, 65, 70), also the sick know, know how to value progress. We will ask Mrs Roncal and Mrs Blanco to vote on points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u18	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the media that Euskal Socialists and EH Collect have signed. No problem at points. All the rest. One side and all the rest. A vote has been delegated. We'll vote for the first half-way point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters, 73; contraries, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u19	The first point is unanimously accepted. The second, the third, and the fourth in succession. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes you give, 71; the votes you give, 72; the supporters are 46; the opponents are 26; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u20	So the vote points have been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "Motion, my brother, introduced by the parliamentary members of the Basque Society, in connection with a new political State. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Llanos, it's yours to introduce and get rid of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. As in 15 days ago, when I raised an inquiry on this matter with Mr Lehendakari, we were still immersed in the period of talks for the formation of the Government in Spain. And in this context of talks opened by the socialist candidate to seek support for his investiture as President of the Government, the territorial issue is gaining more and more prominence. Without going further, the proposal for an agreement presented this week by Podemos to candidate Pedro Sánchez places as an irrevocable question the convening of a referendum in Catalonia and the request of a plurinational state. And 15 days ago, as I said, I was asking the Lehendakari with the intention that he would state whether for the Basque Government the territorial question of the achievement of this new political status was a preferential issue in the matters to be raised in the course of the negotiations to form a Government in Spain. If the right to decide, the right to self-determination, secession, your willingness to promote a legal and binding consultation, will be on the table in talks with Mr Sánchez. It might seem that yes, not only because of what I recalled here from the Lehendakari's statement in the general policy debate on the recognition of the Basque nation, the right to decide and claim a new status for Euskadi, but it also derives from what was expressed last weekend in Pamplona, where he clearly advocated the achievement of a Basque nation shaped by law. It seems to be a priority to negotiate the recognition of a plurinational state, in which there is not a single nation, but several that must be recognized. And, as I said before, Mr Iglesias also placed at the centre of the negotiations that same demand, a reformulation of the state to make Spain a plurinational country. It is clear that a profound transformation of the Constitution would be necessary for the recognition of these plurinational demands. One cannot and should not be deceived to say that the present Constitution can serve for this recognition. That's not true. The territorial model and the framework of coexistence set out in our Constitution and endorsed by the Spaniards is incompatible with the existence in Spain of different nations. This must be made clear from the beginning. And it is that, as I said, Mr. Iglesias added this very week one more point to the confusion and uncertainty generated by the nationalist formations in this matter during the last few years. It should therefore be pointed out that certain issues – and the territorial question and the framework of coexistence is undoubtedly one of them – cannot be negotiated between two or more political groupings. And they cannot be, because it is not for them, because it is for the whole of Spanish society to decide on them. And that, and not another, is the object of our initiative. We understand from the People's Group that respect for national sovereignty, which resides in all the Spaniards, is incompatible with any kind of referendum or consultation on what is and should be Spain, in which part of the Spaniards decide for all the others. The question is whether all other groups agree on this or not. That is why, as I say to you, it will be good to make a few things clear by the lack of concreteness of the Socialist candidate in this matter, when he is not doubting, and his personal political ambition to be invested as President of the Government, which makes a mix of concerns for the interests of the Spanish people as a whole. Lack of concreteness and need for political support which, of course, are being exploited by other political formations for the benefit of their own party interests, ready to take advantage of the weakness and political necessity, together with the personal ambition of the socialist candidate. We respect, logically and in no other way, the right to counter political programmes and proposals in the interests of a political agreement between two or more formations. But, in the same way that we respect this, it is also important for us to show by all the will to preserve the framework of coexistence and mutual respect enshrined in the 1978 Constitution. Because if the sum of political necessity of candidate Sánchez and the political interest of those who can support him results in questioning our framework of coexistence democratically chosen and endorsed by all Spaniards, if that binomial gives that sum, then turn it off and let's go. How will Mr Sánchez and the Socialist Party be able to tell the Spaniards that they have the support to form a stability government, if those endorsements are at the cost of questioning our main framework of coexistence, the Constitution? It should not be able, because this decision is not the responsibility of the Socialist Party, the People's Party or any other party, nor is it the responsibility of the Basque Nationalist Party, no matter how much interest it has in putting the institutional system enshrined in 1978 on its feet. Any decision taken in this direction belongs to the Spaniards, to all the Spaniards, and must be the result, at least, of the same dialogue effort and consensus capacity that our predecessors were capable of in the democratic transition. And it is not enough for Mr Sánchez and his collaborators, in theatrical gestures, to put their hands to their heads and shout in heaven when Pablo Iglesias presents his conditions to support them and one of those conditions places the referendum in Catalonia, and as a condition, moreover, irrevocable. It's not enough. It is not enough for you to say that Mr Iglesias does not know where he is or is not aware of anything, because you, Socialist gentlemen, Socialist Party gentlemen also in Euskadi, are following Mr Sánchez's wake in his desperate career towards Moncloa. You are not being clear and are playing indefinite, and your amendment is good proof of that. They are in a wide-sleeved embodiment that makes no sense and that brings with it approaches as crazy as those of Podemos, which is not new, by the way. At least you must recognize that behind that studied smile of your candidate lies the indefinition. And you will also recognize that in that easy smile strategy with some is failing. Because Mr. Iglesias has returned to answer in the same way, with the same lack of consideration and respect with which he has treated them since he knew they were going to need their votes. Because the deputies of Democracy and Freedom have told him that they will abstain only if there is a Catalan referendum. Because Basque nationalists are also raising their sovereignist demands, because they are also not being precise and clear in their discussions with the Basque Nationalist Party, and that is why today the transfer of Social Security to Euskadi is again under debate, no more or less than the viability of Basque pensions, a system whose fundamental pillar is the solidarity enshrined also in the Constitution. Nationalism, which is wrong, continues to insist on managing from here, knowing that we are deficient, knowing that the pensions of the Basques would not be viable because in Euskadi you enter less than you spend. That deficit condemns us to bankruptcy, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party. And you know perfectly well that it is only a question of one sum and one remainder, you know it; that it is not a question of efficiency, nor of improvement in management, which is not so. You know it perfectly well. But it's just that you don't care about that, it's just that you don't care about management either. You have already said that you are interested in a system of social security of your own. Because also the transfer of social security management is one of the flying goals that you, nationalisms, have drawn in your sovereign career. And that is why he is also on the negotiating table with Mr Sánchez, because the Basque Nationalist Party is also willing to cut off the weakness and need of Mr Sánchez, his anxiety to become elected president of the government. Because the new political status that nationalism claims for Euskadi is based precisely on that, on having the institutional control of everything, also on what the Constitution of 78 conferred on the State administration, however much in this case the Basque pension is in question, that pension that with so many efforts and so many sacrifices has been earned with its work. And, surely, in this package, in addition to Social Security, there will also be the right to decide, the consultation with the Basques, the bilateral relationship with the State. That is, another way to claim, with euphemisms and in a confused way, as you, the nationalists, like the right of self-determination and independence. We believe that it is important to safeguard from political negotiation issues that affect us all in Spain and in which the decision-making capacity belongs to all in Spain. We believe it is important to underline the commitment to constitutional legality, to the rule of law, to democracy and to coexistence among Spanish people. That is the purpose of this initiative, to set the framework for the negotiation, to establish whether we are all clear about the game board on which we are moving. Because in this game played by Mr Sánchez, he will be able to extend his tactics on the board, expose the content of his programme, of his political proposals, but on what neither Mr Sánchez nor other political forces can agree is on the board itself, because it was decided among all the Spaniards and enshrined in the Constitution. And if you want to change the game board, if you want to give it another form, then you have to decide it again among all the Spaniards, and at least with the same degree of consensus as in the year 78. As I said here 15 days ago, some, like Mr Sánchez, are only interested in reaching the agreement, which is to be invested president in March, as if there was not a morning after that day; that matters little. Your only goal, your ultimate goal, is to be invested president, whatever it takes. Others are interested in this agreement so that they can use Mr. Sánchez's anxiety for their own benefit and obtain, without amending the Constitution, a recognition as a nation by virtue of the facts. And we are concerned that the content of that agreement includes, as I said, issues that cannot be part of negotiations between parties, because the parties cannot have them, because they belong to all citizens. The recognition of Spain as a nation, that national sovereignty resides in all Spaniards, are issues that cannot be negotiated. Equality of all Spaniards, solidarity between them, law enforcement are basic pillars that cannot be questioned or altered in the light of political negotiations, due to many emergencies or many anxieties. We therefore believe that the groups in this House should be clearly positioned on this point: whether they consider that any issue, even if it is the Spanish Constitution and national sovereignty, and the consideration of Spain as a nation, solidarity and equality among the Spanish can also be the subject of political concessions and negotiations to become president, or whether they consider all these issues to be a precedent on what cannot be negotiated. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u22	Thank you, Miss Llanos. It's the turn of the teams that's running the corrections. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u23	Thank you, President. The motion put forward by the People's Group is good, but it is insufficient. What the People's Party comes up with is what cannot be done, and it puts on the table what are the legal limits, our framework of coexistence and the preeminence of the Spanish Constitution. And he warns us of the evils that would come if we gave in to the pressures of the nationalists, or the sovereignists, or the independenceists. In that sense, I understand that it is a defensive motion, it is an insufficient motion, it is a motion, in part, complicated, it is a motion of a political party that comes to say that we have to leave everything as it is and that moreover, and this is the most serious thing, we have no political alternative to the nationalists who are stalking us. And that is why I believe that this motion, which we share in each of its points, is insufficient. Because all that is gathered there is true: we must respect the Spanish Constitution, the future of the country we decide among all and, of course, sovereignty belongs to all Spanish citizens. Since this is the case, I believe that we must be able to say something else, we must present an attractive alternative that can be supported by a majority of citizens, not only in Spain as a whole, but also in Euskadi. There are complex, there are criticisms of other political parties, and what needs to be put on the table is what each of us is defending for the benefit of society as a whole. The People's Party therefore points out what should not be allowed. All right, as I say, but it's insufficient. It is not enough to criticize the rest, but we must each explain what we want to do, if we want to do something. It is not enough, therefore, to criticize nationalists; an attractive alternative to their approaches must be proposed. In short, and this is the mother of the lamb that we have not yet achieved, we must win the political battle against the nationalists. Citizens must be convinced that our ideas, the ideas of many citizens, are better than nationalist ideas, that the application of our ideas and our proposals would well come to an immense part of Basque and Spanish society. And in Basque politics, especially, there have been too many complexes in recent times and the Basque Nationalist Party is consolidating itself in its political positions. Therefore, it is not enough to criticize the rest; we must put forward an alternative without complexes and defend it where we are, in all institutions and also on the street. I note that in Spain there are basically four political positions. The immobilizers. They want to leave everything as it is to maintain their own privileges, because it benefits them. They consider that neither in Euskadi nor in Spain should anything be changed. In addition, there are the rupturists, that is, those who intend to skip the current legality and move towards the break-up of the state and to independence. There are those who propose reforms, but reforms that, in our humble opinion, go in the wrong direction, because what they basically offer is more nationalism instead of more defense than usual, more inequality instead of defending more equality. And there we can place certain political parties. There are also obvious complexes there, because what Euskadi and Spain need is no more nationalism, no more inequality, but less nationalism, more solidarity, more equality and more shared citizenship. And finally, as a fourth political position, we are proposing reforms to modernise Spain and to shield equality, including deep constitutional reforms, through established legal procedures, bearing in mind some of the aspects that the People's Party has taken up in its motion and that UPyD has been defending over the last few years: that the reform of the Spanish Constitution we decide among all, that citizenship cannot be divided, that sovereignty belongs to all Spanish citizens and that part of the citizens cannot decide by leaving aside the rest of Spanish citizens. But you have to change the speech, you have to make a more attractive speech. It must not be said that we are against the right to decide, because those who really are against the right to decide are the nationalists, because what the nationalists basically claim is that there is a part of the citizens who cannot decide on matters that directly affect them. And here's the thing. What nationalism seeks, what the Basque Nationalist Party seeks, what the Catalan nationalists claim is that certain matters can be voted on or decided by themselves, and that is the enormous fallacy, that is the fallacy of the right to decide defended and claimed by the nationalists. Therefore, we all have to decide what affects us all. I do not want to talk about Podemos, or Mr Sánchez, or about concrete acronyms, or about certain political parties, or about their different strategies to form government or not in Spain. I want to express what we believe should be done, and done as soon as possible, and this is perfectly reflected in our entire amendment. Therefore, what we propose is to urge the Congress of Deputies, the Government of Spain to promote, without fear, all the legal and constitutional reforms that are necessary to promote a symmetrical and solidarity federal state, made up of autonomous communities, all of them with the same competences. The distribution of powers between central government, autonomous communities and local authorities should be closed, exceptional tax regimes should be abolished and the State should assume a number of exclusive and non-transferable powers in key areas. All this with the aim of modernizing the model of State, shielding citizen equality as an essential principle and ultimately protecting the general interest of all citizens. And that is why we also intend, because all this has to be done through the established legal procedures, that this Parliament declares that in a social and democratic state of law, like Spain, no one is above the law and cannot afford to cut the body of citizenship, nor to redefine the subject of national sovereignty, which is nothing other than the Spanish people, who alone can exercise, by the legally established channels, the right to decide on the unity of the country and the rights of all citizens. And that is why we want this Parliament to remember also that the decision on the territorial model of the State and the Constitution itself belongs to all Spanish citizens and must be carried out through the established legal procedures. That amendment contains what we believe should be done, because there are many things to be done, and what procedures should be followed. And a maximum that we sometimes forget: the problem in Spain over the last few years has not been so much the pressure of nationalists, which also, but above all the complexes of which they are supposedly not nationalists but have been acting as if they were. And that's the thing. We must therefore try to make up a sufficient majority to push forward the reforms that Spain needs, regardless of what the nationalists propose, although, of course, we share with the People's Party that what is contained in that motion must also be remembered. Mr Sánchez is entitled to try to form a government; in fact, I was convinced on 21 December that I was going to try. And he's legitimized for it. In the same way that Mr Rajoy will be legitimized at the moment when Pedro Sánchez does not succeed, if he does not finally succeed. What do we tell both of us and some others? What we say to them is that they do not give in to the nationalists, that they defend the general interest, that they do not take the approaches of those who do not believe in the State, as has been done permanently in the past. And that they do not allow those who want to take advantage of the weakness of the State to achieve their objectives: basically, more political advantages and more economic privileges for a few. This is, in our view, the fundamental thing to do. We know what the nationalists want. We know that they intend to break the state, achieve more political advantages, more economic privileges, and split citizenship. That's not the point. The issue is what we do for those who are not nationalists, and how we put in place these indispensable reforms as soon as possible, which would be very good for a social majority in Spain. Here's the thing. Not to be obsessed, therefore, with what the Basque Nationalist Party intends to do, but to do what in our opinion would result in the daily life of the vast majority of Spanish citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u24	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u25	Thank you, President. I have to admit, I'm a little perplexed at this rostrum. Because either I've wronged the forum, Mrs. Llanos, or you don't know where it is. This is not the Congress of Deputies, here the new government of Spain is not being conceived, there is Pablo Iglesias, I am not Pedro Sánchez, you are not a deputy, although perhaps you would like to be, and that is why you have made that intervention. Anyway, it's absolutely exotic. Now, if you want, we are talking about Mr Rajoy, about the absolute paralysis and inactivity he has, about the political tancredism in which he has settled and that he is going to take his party liquidated by corruption within four days. But what it seems to me is that, if you come here to make this speech that rubs the political ridiculous (excuse me to say, rubs the political ridiculous), you must be very nervous, Mrs Llanos. If Mr Rajoy, in order to conceal his inactivity and his absolute indolence, needs you to make fireworks on the periphery to see if it looks like Mr Rajoy's political corpse has any other spasm, for, frankly, you are clear that he has not achieved it at all. But I'm going to try to focus on this cheating thing that you brought us here today. And we can say that we are again on the day of the marmot, of what has been a very recurring matter in this legislature, a debate that seems like the boxer's fight with his shadow. And the sequence is more or less the following: the PNV and its Government establish in their government program the achievement of a new status as one of the priority axes of their action this legislature, and even set a date for a endorsement in 2015, although they have then done everything possible to skim any concrete formulation in this regard. So at this point in the film, we still don't know whether what the PNV is thinking is in an update of self-government, as established by the Statute of Gernika, or whether what it actually raises is something else, as suggested in the vague statements that occasionally releases out there. For your part, you, the People's Party, believing that you have caught the lehendakari and his party in a kind of renunciation, have been trying all these years to get through parliamentary initiatives that nationalist groups renounce to be so and become the faith of the Constitution. And in this verbal fencing, we come back today with the motion brought to us by Mrs Llanos, who comes from the question raised in the previous plenary session and who had the following and most rudimentary statement: "What are the purposes of the lehendakari so that the formation of the new Government of Spain can imply the achievement of the new political status and the bilaterality relationship announced in the last general policy debate?". And Mr Urkullu's answer was exactly as intricate as his question. So the People's Group insists on a doctrinal motion, which you know is not going to lead us anywhere, because what it proclaims in it can be very esteemable and sensible for those who believe that the Constitution is a guarantee of freedoms and that together with the Statute it draws a framework of coexistence open to all, but, not for long to repeat it – and we have been doing so for a long time, Mrs Llanos – neither your PNV or Bildu lordships are going to change their beliefs. On the contrary, it is most likely that the insistence you put forward will lead you to go further in your position and to subscribe to joint declarations of principles on which you then differ separately. However, my group respects, of course, its right to present initiatives that they consider appropriate, even if they are ridiculous like this. And, above all, he respects what this House represents; not, like you, who seem to be speaking in another. That is why, in the full amendment we have tabled, we try to bring the declaration of faith proposed by the Group of the European People's Party to a practical and useful level. We propose what we have already been saying as active and passive in Self-Government and outside of it: That, since it included the elaboration of a new status as one of its three axes of action this Basque Government, it orders the contributions made in the Self-Government Paper in an articulated text, so that an orderly and fruitful debate on an update of self-government can take place, and with the widest possible consensus of all parliamentary groups and under the guarantees and legal channels envisaged, because it is already being seen that the method of work imposed in the PNV paper with the support of Bildu serves above all for one thing, so that time may pass. And we're not naive either. We are already seeing where the aims advanced by some forces point, but we are addressing that debate with the will to seek agreements between different, which was the spirit of the Statute, strengthening the consensus existing so far and in the spirit of offering better self-government for the progress and cohesion of Basque citizens. That is the position that encourages the detailed proposal to update the statute pact of 79 that we presented more than a month ago in the paper and that we defended yesterday in a monographic way in the same paper. A position that starts from the enhancement of the Statute of Gernika, which constitutes us as a political community and has placed Euskadi at a stage of progress and social cohesion unprecedented in recent years. And that seems to be indisputable, even if some do not recognize it. But we also do not want to make the dysfunctions that have occurred in this statutori development more sedative and propose viable solutions to overcome them. And that is why we propose to address in advance a reform of the Constitution that aligns the federal architecture of the state of autonomy, that avoids competitive invasions by the central administration and that recognizes the uniqueness of communities that feel unique. Because this previous reform would give full legal certainty to the changes that could then be made to the Statute of Gernika without adventures. But we are also prepared, if it is decided, to undertake the updating of the Statute, without waiting for the reform of the Constitution. And we have identified the specific points and contents for that update, including the completion of outstanding transfers, such as the management of the economic system of social security. But we want your transfer to be in accordance with the letter and spirit of the Statute, Article 18.2 and transitional provision 5 – which must be read in its entirety, Mr Egibar – which state that this management will be undertaken through appropriate agreements and within the unitary character and respect for the principle of solidarity which define social security. That part is never uttered by you. Not according to a forced interpretation of the PNV that translates agreements – in plural and in small letters – by Economic Concert, with separate box and quota, and tries to apply an instrument that is designed for taxes to social contributions of workers and companies, something with which the Concert has nothing to do. This is a more than questionable interpretation that has been very useful to the PNV to sell the idea of the general non-compliance with the transfers of the Statute, and of which we have to doubt that it is really interested in taking on the management of the economic regime of Social Security in a statutory way (as the Statute says), because at its assembly in Pamplona it has announced that its aspiration is another. It is to create a social security of its own, apart from that which exists in Spain. And he has also told us that this segregated and mixed social security will only be paid for by those who have a private pension plan, and therefore it will not be for all Basque citizens, but only for those who have sufficient resources to be able to pay for these supplementary pension plans. And that is not what the Statute says, nor is it our approach, because we want better self-government at the service of the citizens of the twenty-first century, of citizenship as a whole (regardless of their feelings of identity or belonging), in social and progress, and of an equal nature for all citizens, not to give satisfaction to very legitimate nationalist aspirations, but which represent only part of this society. Our proposal therefore defines a more social, more useful and more advanced status. It is certainly not a socialist statute, but we are not going to endorse a nationalist statute either. Socialists will continue to defend the plurality of Basque society and the free identity of people, and we are willing to participate generously in the renewal of the pact that gave rise to the present Statute. That is the will with which we want to work on the update. That I thought, naively, that it was the object of this GNP, but I have already seen that no, that it was another, that it was trying to alleviate the absolute nervousness and panic in which Mr Rajoy is especially installed, to which, by the way, everyone considers him a political corpse, although he seems to not yet know.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u26	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing over to those who have no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector. Mr. Urizar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u27	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Pastor said he came here and saw some things he didn't understand, and we don't understand them either. We do not understand how whenever there is a dispute of the new states, the right of deciding is only mentioned, and you consider it an attack on the PPrene. Speak of the rights of the Basque People, and your answer, the denial of the rights, and the denial of the people. To say that the execution of the rights is based on the will of the majority of the people, to say that it will be in a democracy, to say that the majority will have decided, and that the will of the community is nothing, your answer is nothing. You are constantly opposed to legal legislation based on democracy-based legislation by PP. Mrs. Llanos, you were missing the 8th article of the Constitution on the announced motion. Or, perhaps, to make it clearer, that at the first point, the faithful should appear explicitly, because thus we should understand more clearly what we are talking about. You're scared. Fear of democracy. Fear also for the decision of this people, and, in consequence of this fear, a chance of threatening and using force for us to watch them again and again. You probably won't notice it, but the language of the Moment is a confessional language from top to bottom. Obligation, defence, incompatibility... You live as if you were suffering an attack, and it is really a democracy. You present the law before us, and it is true, as the foundation of legislation, that sacrified Constitution exists, and this Constitution does not admit of any other sovereignty than that of the Spaniards. But, to be clear, was it possible to imagine that after 40 years of Frichism the government was still alive, or was it more francist than ever, that the army would accept such a change? Or was it science fiction? The left Spanish had to accept monarchy and yellow flag. If, then, they saw themselves obliged to do so, was the choice of doubting the only Spanish sovereignty? He wasn't there. And in other respects this constitution is not our constitution. But what happens today is, when they're almost 40 years old, that you don't want to lose the advantage you had then. You do not wish to lose the advantage you took then, and you would like to sell the Constitution to us as a mark of mutual respect. Then we didn't buy it from you and we won't buy it for you today. The frame of the Constitution, this mark of mutual respect for your life, has never admitted the rights of our people, but always insisted on it. This sacred constitution has been regarded as immutable in the decades as the wall of the rights of nations which are within the state. And, on the other hand, when the first application of the neoliberian interests arrives, then there is no difficulty; change, change. In the presence of some, it seems, the absence of sovereignty is not acceptable, but in the presence of others there is no difficulty. Mrs. Llanos, there is no association based on position. Franco thought our rights, our language, our proclamations and the character of the people were abolished by our culture, but Franco died and the people remained here. If life is to be normalized, if we have to be normal relations, we have to be free on all sides. To determine in what parameters and how all freedom, voluntary, relation, and what manner of things it is to be. Talking of the ghost of the army, or, as you have done, hiding it between the lines, there will be no normalized relationship. Not now and not after. In addition, this option is set to the end of the relationship by default. And you do not know that you are afraid, because you do not yet know what you will be in the shadow of that great empire which was past in Spain. You're trying to tie everything together with that fear. You often claim the size of Spain. The size of Spain is important in the world, in order to be influency in Europe. And there's a mistake in the slates. There you are, too, in the wrong parameters, because size is not a guarantee of welfare, and we seem to know that it is here. I do not feel any uneasiness either from their size, or from the Dutch, or from the Dutch, or from the Dutch, or from the Dutch, or from the Dutch, or from the Dutch, or from the Dutch. I think they'd rather live a worthy life than be a size of influence, and even in the Basque Country. In other states it has been admitted that the consent of all the parties in order to make a free relation is necessary, and if one of the parties decides that the relation must be interrupted, that the most naturalised output is to be committed in orderly fashion, to which it is bound. Or do you think Canada wants to get independent? Or is it that Great Britain wishes Scotland to acquire independence? Neither of them, but from democratic rules, they have decided to respect the will of these nations. Why not Spain? If the story of the Basque People shows us something, if it shows us a long, old, special story, it's that it's in the will. Our structure is a very special structure, and formed according to the political wills which have been throughout history, composed of political wills. The law has always followed. The political will has then decided what laws there will be behind, and it is still so at this time. We have the only special prosecutor in the South Basque Country on the European level, and we have only one special prosecution in the Basque Country, because there has been political will for that purpose. The law has followed this will, both here and in Nafarro, Spain and Europe. Political will, that's what a normalized relation requires, and unfortunately we don't see in Spain, and we don't even see it in your motives. And where there is no will, there is another way, one-sided way; harder, longer, no doubt, but by democratic paths it is perfectly legitimate. Catalonia has started this way, but she's on this road because she's never seen the way to consent because she's given no choice. His own path, uncompromising, looked out, but most respectfully. For in the past years, since the independent process had begun in it, I have never seen hatred in Catalonia; I have seen illusion, illusion, by the prospect of a free people, that illusion would possess their decisions. And, Mrs. Llanos, the time of hate is over in the Basque Country. We think it's time for illusions. And for that, we have to decide, we have to have a choice. No attack, no impeachment, but accepts what the euscal society says. We of the Basque People, we're ready. PPkook?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u28	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u29	Good morning, everyone. I agree with what Mr. Pastor said. He has made a reflection on the legislature that follows this initiative of mine in Llanos, and I agree with this reflection. Why, as if this were a small matter, you have announced from the hand of another legal proposition, in which case, if it is to be defined by the Basque agenda, this legislature ought to define it. So the consequences of those elections which have occurred in Spain seem to bring back the administration and the rest of it here, because in Madrid the Poptular can't speak, or perhaps he's out of play. And I want to be clear about it. I don't think it's a secret that you're talking about yourself about the euskal agenda, the Jest Party, every time he can, is always what he does when he's able to put the proposals he accepts with a majority of them on the table. You will not hesitate in any case, but we will inform you that this legislature of the Doget has accepted many resolutions in front of the laws which the Popular Party has established from the hand of its absolute majority. You know, you know, that here, for instance, the resolutions to be revoked and abandoned around the form of work. That's a Basque agenda thing. And, of course, there are also solutions here to refresh economic activity and create employments, including the absolute majority, which are all accounts of euskal book. Or there has been a great many disputes here about peace and life. What are the grounds, whether there be any political subject or no, whether there be any such thing as a right to determine, what exercise is to be done about it. Great majoritys are here in this law, and perhaps the next majority will still be more extensive. So it's not fun, it's not EAJ who puts dates and points of his own book on the table, but things that are made up of in this legislation. That's the eupscal agenda, the Santan Popular Party, and the book that the Social Party has never noticed. That's it. What's going on? The circus that is currently installed in Madrid (the press conferences every day, I don't know what, critics, and the rest), disgusts us in a great measure. Why is that not the way we at least learned to make politics? But, well, that's what everyone chooses. Eta zuk zenioen, éta hemen esaten duzu, galdeketen inguruan... Jakina Kataluniako gaia era mahai haenean dagoela! Zergatik hor arazo politico bat dago. Eta, is that the besteak zuen bezala, so to the dago modu jatorragorik herriari galdetzea bath? Eta zuk esaten duzu: "Hemen at guztiak itxita daude". Eta esaten duzu: "It's incompatible". Of course, "recognition of national sovereignty is incompatible with any kind of referendum or citizen consultation on what is and should be Spain in which part of the Spaniards decide for the others". Have you not yet realized that we have not, that Catalan has no intention, no need to determine what Spain is and what it must not be? The only thing we want is a simple but big goal to decide what this town is going to be in the future? And in order to organize political life among different nations, that is our end? It's not news. We don't want to define what Spain has to be. We're all Basques, we're all Basques. What we want is as a people, and what this people ought to choose from the will of the people. Not to go against anyone, but to guarantee the future of the people. And let's go down to the details, why the Social Party has taken advantage of a little review or a few reviews to make it to EAJ. And yesterday we were in the Autogoberon Poncia, and the things in it were in the media as it was today.... And in this debate, too, the subject has been mentioned, and especially the subject of Social Security has been mentioned by Mr. Pastor, but I would like to say something before all this. Zerk ekarri gaitu honora? What brought us here? We say that in our written contribution. It has brought us here the effective and real non-recognition of the political subject Basque people, the reluctant and often frontal attitude that the various Spanish governments have had to admit this so-called bilaterality, and, as a result, that we are in a theoretical system of guarantees that is unreal, that always forces the Basque political community, the Autonomous Community or the Basque institutions to be always on the defensive. This is what has brought us here, to the need to update the political will in the matter of self-government. "Todos sabemos de qué statusos habando cuando hablamos de subjecto pollico, pueblo vasco y derecho a decidir y en caso, pactar eljjerciio." Pero eljjicicio que ha el Partado Socialist, in the power I was saying yesterday about euphoria, he wasn't brave. He has not been brave, nor has he been looking at the past, nor into the future. Why in past matters the Socialist Party has right care, hand in hand, unchangeable in relation to the development of the State; in a corner, saying that if the Constitution does not change, si no se modificate la Contución stripe, no va a haber avances sustanciales. It is not said, of course, in which direction the asymmetric federated state is pointed out in a diffuse manner, but we do not talk about indelible competences, for example, when we talk later about individual rights associated with public services. It is not defined all that, it is not known exactly what model it proposes. And he has a determination, which is to set up... Yes, clarifying competences in the future, but always under the stalemate of what as a doctrine has already been made known and decided by the Constitutional Court. The Socialist Party proposes two changes in the preamble: one to nominally introduce the word nation and the other to make a reference to the time of political violence that this country has suffered. As regards the specific definition of competence or of the power base, he refers to the need to clarify competence as to what matters would be related to the Community of Euskadi. And, of course, again with the need to amend the Spanish Constitution. With whom will the Spanish Constitution be amended? It is certain that without the People's Party there is no qualified majority, then there will be no amendment to the Spanish Constitution. And now an articulated text is required from the Basque Government so that we can focus the debate. That is an exercise of escapism, of non-pronunciation. And you then quote, as a reference among all, that of Social Security, and I have to remember again... And they're not invented books. You did not communicate with the two comrades yesterday, but we had this debate. If I tell you about Social Security what the Socialist Party says, that "the creation of a general treasury of the Basque Country should be envisaged as a single box, in which at the same time resources are unified and that it will be in charge of the collection and payment services", and that "the future government of the Basque Country will have the capacity of administration and organization within its territory of all matters related to health and social security under the high inspection of the State" (page 106 of the Government Program of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party-PSE, 1980, I say the date)... And some say, "Well, this is what Solchaga wrote. Well, Solchaga, Navarro..." Look at what involution there has been: a navarro, with the configuration of the four territories and talking about Social Security. What is this? Is it mutation, is it evolution, or is it simple and simply involution? So, with a view to defining the future, regardless of whether a certain digit is numerically warned, saying "there are so many transfers left", we would also like the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, also to other formations, at least in the process of consensus, of recognition of that which are pillars for a framework of coexistence from Euskadi and for Euskadi, which is the recognition of the political subject and the right to decide and agree on his exercise.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u30	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u31	Thank you again, Madam President. It was said here that we had presented the initiative and that we were nervous. Pastor, nervousness, none; now, worry, everything. Because if we had put forward this initiative because we were concerned about certain issues that, in our view, could not enter into political negotiation – it should be made clear and not left behind – after the debate about this proposal, the truth is that the concern is even greater. It is said why this initiative is brought here. Because what is agreed between Mr Sánchez in order to form a government can influence, and a lot, here, and we will have to make it clear here. With regard to some aspects, such as democracy, democracy is, first and foremost, respect for the law. Respecting the law is the foundation and pillar of democracy, and the Constitution is the supreme norm of that legislation and must be respected. And there are certain issues that are contained in the Constitution that, in our view, are basic pillars of coexistence, and that has to be left out of the negotiating framework. But it doesn't look like it. The truth is that you have taken the word out of my mouth, Mr Egibar, in relation to the Socialist Party, and then I will go with escapism. But you also do escapism. You say very different things in this House and outside this House. In this House they always disguise themselves as political subjects, right to decide, bilaterality... No, say clearly what they said in Pamplona. You aspire to a recognition of the nation. No of the cultural nation: of the Basque nation. Say it here clearly, that's your new political status. Say clearly here what they say in Pamplona. And the question is whether you, to support Mr Sánchez, are going to demand that. What needs to be done is to tell the truth. What is not possible is to hide certain issues, which do not appear in the negotiation so that the negotiation can move forward, but then, out of focus, to be negotiating on that. Because that does influence, and a lot, the life of the Basques. That is what it is about, Mr Egibar, to say here whether this is a primary issue or not, or whether they give up in the negotiations. Because does he really want us to believe that all you want is for all the powers of the Statute to be completed? Is that what you want? Aren't they going to go beyond that? Do they give up wanting that recognition as a nation? And the Socialist Party already said that nervousness, none. "I don't know if you don't know where he is" is the new phrase of the Socialist Party, right? Because the same one you told me you told Mr. Churches. You told me you'd made a fool of yourself. I could tell you the same thing, Mr. Pastor, but I'll be more elegant. I'm not going to tell you that you've made a fool of yourself, that you're making a fool of yourself. I'll just tell you that Mr. Sánchez is probably dragging you too, because you here today had to do an exercise in escapism, in disguise, in a "Where are you going? Apples bring me," because they know that with Mr. Sánchez's smile it is not enough. That, no matter how well he smiles, to give him the support the political forces will ask him for something more. If it really is consumable what we propose in our proposal, it is as easy as voting on it, Mr Pastor. The question is whether the price that Mr Sánchez, in addition to the smile, has to pay to be invested as president, requires that what is set out in that motion must be put aside. And that's what you have to say here today, that that's not going to be left aside, that's still consumable. And that's what we have to do here. Here the truth must be told to the Basques and to the rest of the Spanish: if indeed certain questions which, at least before, for the Socialist Party were unnegotiable remain so. That's what this is about. The rest, as his initiative, is, as I say, "Where are you going? Apples bring me." Why? Because you can't commit, because you don't know how far the divestitures are going to go to get invested president. Because they don't know. And so, as I was saying, I'm nervous, zero. Now, you already see that little clarity, because if you really want to make it clear that what you once thought was unavailable and not negotiable remains so, it is as easy as voting our initiative. If not, it's just that you're covering Mr. Sanchez's cardboard. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u32	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u33	Thank you very much. Obviously, what happens in Madrid and the government pact that is reached will affect us directly to the Basques, and it is therefore reasonable that an initiative of the kind that has been presented can be presented. What I was saying before, and I repeat, is that it seems to me that it is a motion that we otherwise share, but that remains short, that it is insufficient, that it is defensive. And I think we can say more than what is said in that motion, that we are going to vote because these are basic democratic principles that deserve the approval of this Parliament. That this Parliament is not going to approve such a motion shows certain democratic gaps in this Parliament. After all, this motion speaks of respect for national sovereignty, speaks of respect for the Spanish Constitution, speaks of respect for democratic and legal procedures to modify all the laws that each political group considers. And, therefore, beyond what we think is a motion that is short and that is insufficient, we will support it. I believe that, as has been said, it is not good to be afraid in politics or to be nervous. I think we should try to make an effort for all groups to present our proposals for reform, constitutional reforms and statutory reforms. We have been doing this for the past few years, both in the Congress of Deputies and in this Parliament and also in this Self-Government Paper. I believe that we have been sufficiently clear and have explained what reforms we think Euskadi and Spain need, what is the agenda for reforms that Basque and Spanish citizens need to improve our life and well-being. We think we need to reform the state, we think we need to modernise the country, we think we need to reform the autonomous state to remove duplication and inefficiencies. We also believe that exceptional regimes should be abolished, simply because, when certain exceptional regimes are claimed as a right, it is enough to remember that those rights which only enjoy part of citizenship are not rights, but are privileges. We believe that certain key competences, such as education or health, must be recovered for the State. We think the Senate should be abolished. We believe that we must abolish the diputations and merge municipalities. We believe that we must put on the table a series of reforms that have not been carried out in recent years and that today we think that they are urgent, beyond what the nationalists say, beyond the nationalist agenda. Beyond all that, the rest of the political parties have to explain what we want to do. All of this, in any case, and at least in our case, to ensure greater welfare and equality for all. These are not all the reforms that Euskadi and Spain need. We need to implement measures to regenerate democracy, we need to implement forceful measures against political corruption, we need to reform electoral laws, we need to decolonize justice, we need to suppress squabbles or we need to ensure that the right to information is a fundamental right enshrined in the Spanish Constitution. The Basque Nationalist Party will tell us that these are not its priorities, and it is in its right to think so, but I believe that these are the priorities of the vast majority of citizens. And I think we should devote more time to defending these reforms and proposals than to criticizing what the nationalists intend to do, beyond remembering what the legal procedures are and what the Spanish Constitution says. Therefore, we need neither fear, nor complexity, nor immobility. It takes courage and commitment to undertake all these reforms. Mr. Egibar accused Mr. Pastor of cowardice, of having presented a proposal in the Self-Government Office that is not brave enough. Of course, for Mr Egibar a courageous proposal is one that tends to accept nationalist budgets. I believe that in this case and in this political situation in which we live the courage is just the opposite; the courage is not to accept the rupturist proposals of the nationalists. The brave thing in Euskadi and Spain is to defend the existing legality and defend more equality and better well-being for all. This is also what we are calling for in this debate from both the People's Group and the Socialist Group, as well as from the whole People's Party itself and the Socialist Party. Let them be courageous, let them push through all these reforms, and let them not accept the reactionary postulates of nationalism. This is what we think Euskadi and Spain urgently need today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Llanos, after hearing it, I reaffirm that this you have brought is a real nonsense and a very clear demonstration of political filibusterism: one thing is said to do the opposite. Because one thing is the letter with which you justify your proposition, and another thing, the true intentions, that you have made them palmarially clear in this rostrum. And, I'll tell you again, to get out here and make a fool of myself, I'd rather you save him. I recommend that you be more prudent, because the truth is that in politics the worst thing you can do is ridiculous, the worst. It's what discredits you the most. If we are in the situation that we are going into – which you are passionate about – the negotiations of the Government of Spain, it is largely because Mr Rajoy threw himself into the pot, as is usually his custom, for more than 40 days, without moving a finger to propose anything or to do anything, hiding in the verb decline. And Mr. Sanchez will come out any way he wants out. But, at least, you will have to recognize the courage and political courage to try it, to try it with lines that have been discussed in the party's governing bodies, in the debate bodies, have been made public, are known all over the world. And what you're trying to do here to make us look like some sort of masked nationalist of a dangerous character is unbelievable. I'm sorry to tell you, it's unbelievable, no matter how much you try to – rosing ridiculously, I tell you again – exaggerate the note to see if that's how you achieve the goal. He'll be out or Pedro Sánchez won't be out. I hope so, but if it doesn't come out, it's okay. We'll have tried. And then we'll go to an election with our program and our head very high, which you won't be able to do because maybe for that time you don't have a match anymore. Perhaps justice has already taken you forward. That would give me a lot of shame. Between the Punica and the Gürtel, and that security forces enter from the first to the last floor of Genoa every three days, plus the headquarters of Valencia, I would be a little bit worried. That's what you'd have to worry about. And then, quickly, Mr Egibar – it was not the object of the intervention, it came out like this, but, as he has gotten involved with these passionate issues – I will tell you that you cannot ask the socialists that we respect and defend the right to decide, because we do not believe in that phantasmagorical right that you proclaim permanently, nor do we believe in bilaterality, which is not at all reflected in the spirit of the Statute of Gernika which was agreed in 1979. And I'm going to remind you of two things. At the time of the governments of Felipe González, Ramón Jáuregui, then socialist deputy of the Congress of Deputies, made you a formal offer in the forum of Congress for the management of the economic regime of Social Security and you rejected that proposal. And when – by continuing to talk about competences – prison policy was transferred to Catalonia, it was offered to you. And you said no, "give me this chalice, which often trouble comes upon us if we accept this," and it's over. To have taken advantage of a chance. You had in the last stage of the government of José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero a fantastic relationship with the president of the government. At all that time, neither on one occasion did they ask him to manage the economic system of social security nor to transfer prisons. It was never intended to arise between the agreements that you forced in other matters (by the way, quite badly transferred some chapters that arrived in Euskadi). So, don't tell me about the past, because if you want us all to be ashamed, we can take out some things that you said in the year 80, specifically Mr Arzalluz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u36	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Mr. Urizar, from there.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u37	Just one little thing to say. How the Basque Country should be formed, how the Member should be composed, since we have this institution, which is in theory the principal representation... But what I hear here, at least this bank, is about Euskakia, Euskal People, but no Basques. The will of the natives, what the decision is, does not appear at all; always what's to be said of Madrid, how's it going to work in Madrid? There is no doubt that in Madrid there is your centrality, and this is secondary, the Basques are secondary. That's all. Of course we vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u38	Thank you, Mr. Urizar. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Egibar, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u39	What you have said is nothing about the authentic interpretation –authentic, because we have to qualify as such – of the authentic interpretation that the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party of the Basque Country did about the transfer of social security. It doesn't tell me anything, because for you things prescribe, evolve, mutate, but that in the end, I told you before, is an involution. That's the only reality. And he says Ramón Jáuregui offered what kind of formulas. You know, and from the Basque Government and from this Parliament, the contents of these matters have also been defined, that this Parliament has never admitted damaged goods, ever. Not in Social Security, not in prison politics, never. He won't admit it, at least in the opinion of the Basque Nationalist Party. And then there comes the People's Party saying that we're in some outfits here and a costume there, and that when we go from assemblies, we say some things that aren't recognized here. So, Basque Nationalist Party. Nationalist Party, of which nation? The tub, he says. It is not the Spanish, nor the French, nor the British, nor the Scottish; it is the Basque, we are talking about the Basque nation. And you know what the founding goal of the Basque Nationalist Party, which is to form a state of its own in Europe – and I say this without buts, that is, I don't even put the opposing conjunction – is the goal. Now, not everyone thinks like us. That is why we believe that coexistence among peoples must be sought from the respective recognition. And for something to be recognized, we must respect it, and we demand that respect. Before, in the first intervention, he said: what has brought us here? The effective and real non-recognition of this political subject, the Basque people, and the non-assumption of bilaterality (bilaterality which, because it does not exist, does not even exist in the dictionary the word, but yes the bilateral relationship). But the bilateral has to be of recognition. I also have a bilateral relationship with the Kutxa. Small relationship, same to same! No, it's not an equal to equal relationship. It demands the configuration of subjects that are respected, regardless of the size of the population or the square kilometers of surface they have, that's what we're asking. And from there, look for a formula of understanding. It's not that complicated to understand. And we are not going to ask either Mr Sánchez or Mr Rajoy, nor have we ever asked him, to become a Basque nationalist. I told you in my first speech that we do not want to define or decide the future of Spain, that we want to define and decide the future of our people, Basque people, Basque nation. Obviously, in coexistence with other national realities and other nations and peoples that exist in the Spanish State, but being what we are. It is not so complicated to understand, and a Spanish nationalist should understand this reflection. You say you're not nationalists. They're even worse, they're imperialists. [[Berber]] Man, of course! If you don't assume national realities, if you don't respect the national realities you have in your environment, what are you? At least disrespectful, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u40	Would you please shut up, because your shift is over?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u41	First of all I said: is there a more honourable thing than to decide the people, or to ask the people? And that was our motto in the year-of-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do-do. Here, in this legislature, a law was admitted, a law of consultation, which contained two questions, and the intention of the prosecution was abandoned. It was the law, but it was abandoned, by the Constitutional law you dismissed. There was another phrase, which contained future and future, and he said: "I wish I could seize your future, what sighs! Most of us are worried about a decision that isn't ours. What future can a man who fears the people offer? "I don't know. We are not afraid of the people. And the last word must also be that of the people. And that's the key: To build up the future among you, [And] give your word to the people, And your judgments to the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u42	Thank you, Mr. Egibar. Now that the discussion is over, we will vote for the original text of Mrs. Llanos Gómez's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; the votes given, 73; the supporters 10; the contrary, 63; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u43	Original text was not accepted as a result. Then we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 1, 63; white, 0; abstations, 9.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u44	Not accepted. Then we'll vote for the whole crew's leadership of the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 15. The contrary, 58; white, 0; Absence, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u45	It is not therefore accepted to be the correction of the integer. Third point in theme list: "Motion, Daniel Maezz Perez EHGGs, introduced in the neighbourhood of the Eukadian Power Strategy. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Mazezu, it's your word to present the initiative and take it off.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u46	Good morning, everyone. Again, this Chamber of Powers. And unfortunately, not because the Government brings the subject back, but because a group of oppositions bring it, in this case, again through the Residents of the Basque People. Besides, it's pretty serious for us to know that the Rava, Bizkai, and the Gipuian strategy is resurgenting and having information about it through a press notice. Besides, when we know that in this legislature there's an extension to discuss the energy model that's open. As far as we know, the chief physician has not yet gone into this form of poetry, and when he decides to re-examine the principle of myrgetic strategy, then, first and then, he doesn't go to tell us about it, but, in an election campaign, he puts out a press note and we know it through the press. And it is not our anger or our astonishment, only because, as a matter of form, we find it wanting respect for the other members of the legislature. We're dealing with a theme that's essential, because, after all, energy is an essential resource. It is essential to the welfare of the people of this country, and to our economic development, because the decisions which are taken in this area are consequences, and whether in social or economic matters these consequences are very important. Today, for example, outside this legislature, there are employees of the ACB company that hold our solidarity with each other. Such are the consequences of certain resolutions taken in energy. The consequences of those decisions and decisions taken in this area are, in fact, very important to our economy, to our society, and, without saying anything, to the environment. Hence we think, that when the decision is made in this respect, or when it is proposed to take measures, we ought at least to seek a dispute, as is the case in a strategy; and this would be the ideal EGAYNNAY, in order to do as exact or precise measures as possible in the energy. But no, in this case, as I have said, it has not been brought to this legislature, and it is the Government's intention to adopt this myrgetic strategy. And we know very clearly what is our most energetic example, and what are the principal criteria of the most energetic example or strategy we need for the future. And they don't match the government strategy. They do not agree, as we have read, in this administration of government, because the stake for the most retivable ones is very small for us, absolutely involuntary. And besides, because of the consequences of this, we follow our trangregic model to be subject to fossil fuels. So we don't agree with that model. But what we want is not that our example is the best, and that it is the best, but that we discuss it about it, and put it on the table. I'd say it's necessary, first of all, to reduce the power consumption. In this physical area of physical limits, mother on earth, because it is impossible to establish a constant or infinite growth. And the most significant instances or effects of this are the reversal of climate, the barrenness of common use, or the barrenness of certain materials. These are, after all, the most instructive illustrations, to show that the mother has her physical boundaries, and that it is impossible to propose an infinite economic model of growth. So we want you to discuss it too. When we argue about energy or energy strategy, we want to discuss it too. We don't mean we're right, we're more smart than the EH Collectors. No, we want you to put those things on the table and discuss them. And the government, I don't know why, doesn't want to promote that discussion. But it's not just that, that's the first part. We want, too, to discuss what our wager should be when we produce energy, or rather when we transform it. And here, for us, the future must be renewed, yes or yes. Not because we say: Because the criteria established in the world or Europe are derived from them. But if we read that strategy that the government is re-instructing, we can see, for example, that 16% of the entire neurotic consumption will only be retractable in 2025 years, when Europe established it must be 20% of the retended consumption. The government presents us that a strategy will not complete the criteria imposed by Europe. But if we continue to read, we can see that not only the end of the whole of myrgetic consumption is not to be fulfilled, but in the product of electricity, 2025. In the year, only 11% will be a retractable source. That means the origin of 89% will be fossil fuels. It is clear, therefore, that this strategy does not occupy the objects of Europe at the level or in the world's level in the most restructured energy, and therefore we mean for us at the present moment all public policies, all public resources, all lines of subservation, all lines of energy, must be put into a firm wager for the retching energy, and that this energy strategy is not to be seen. We all admit that fossil fuels must continue, that our economic model still depends on fossil fuels. We know that transition from fossil fuels cannot be made from one day to another, but we can't direct public resources to feed the model of fossil fuels at this moment. And we can see that this week we're still conducting public funds to fossil fuels, for instance, this week, because, for example, in a deal signed with Petronor, 15,5 million public for oil. And this is to us, because another 15,5 million people are turned to the public, by this agreement, to the cow that gives black milk. Thus defined by Joseph Luis Bilbao Petrronor, the cow that gave milk in the Bazay of Petrronor. That cow looked like black milk. From Editegetically and in the environmental view, it's a bad bet to continue to track down the public money for oil, but it's been proved, unfortunately, that this week we've seen, too, a game for fossil fuel, in this case, an economicly and commercially, because the cow gives less milk and less milk, and then it's becoming more black and more milky. The produceive model under fossil fuels is now a disaster, and the government almost as a whole reflects on this projective strategy, which has subjected it to fossil fuels. And what we do with it is simply to press the landing towards destruction. So that what is plain is, that our earthly examples and models of government differ. This strategy of ours and of our government isn't compatible. But, as I have said before, it is what we wish to discuss first, first, in the decisions made by the rest of the political parties, and especially in the decisions made by the community. From this valley, we've signed a half-way text with the Jestzac Party and the Social Party. In short, what we require in this medium is to bring this strategy here before it can be accepted to make a monographic discussion. What we ask is, also, that the criteria which this strategy contains are to combine at least the European Union and the Paris deals with the retrotal energy and the climateal change. We think there was a minimum agreement, but it was necessary. We would have liked to have a radical radical radical radical transition started; we admit that this is not the most agreed to, but at least we ask at least to observe, in this second point, the criteria marked to the level of Europe, as well as in the climate, as in the area of the recurrent energy. And thirdly, to work in this strategy with precise plans and measures, to obtain a decobonized, bearable, and retractable example. And in order to do this, first of all, we must overcome the most urgent prayer in the state, and thereby establish the exact measures, by which we know very clearly what the consequences of prayer are: and there was here (in the present case there was a mystery, that 200,000 persons suffer extreme poverty), the prohibition of self-consumption, which the Spaniards of the State has established in its last reform; the restrictions of the most retractable; or the exercises which our corporations suffer, are the effects of regulating frames in energy in the degree of state. I am grateful to the Jaltzaan Party and to the Socialist Party for a half-way text. And what we always say is: the paper often takes care of everything, anything can be put into a medium. Unfortunately, we've come to agree here and in other parts, and then the government hasn't done it. Let's hope you fill it in this case. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u47	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u48	Thank you, President. And good morning to you all. As Mr Maeztu said, energy policy is beginning to be one of those issues on which we are discussing more and more frequently and on which everyone is trying to contribute to the best extent what he believes can be part of the solution. Sometimes we talk about energy poverty; sometimes we talk about self-consumption; and sometimes we talk about the energy strategy that the government is aiming at with the 2030 horizon. What is also repeated, in the Socialist Group's view, is the lack of conviction in the Government's responses. On the one hand, it seems that we share a diagnosis, a diagnosis that no one gets tired of doing, because we all know it. We all know what the current energy situation is, we all know what the causes of the problems are, but we are not tired of making and reporting, which in what they deepen is in the diagnosis and little in the solutions. We also understand that we could agree between the different political groups – because we believe that there is a will to do so – on the central axes of the future energy policy, but the truth is that we know very little about this government. Many headlines around renewable energy development and the future goals to be achieved. We are talking about an energy strategy today in which the most important commitments talk about minimizing, preserving, encouraging, promoting, contributing, but never talking about concrete time frames, about concrete numerical data, or about any commitment that goes beyond these verbs that do not finish making anything concrete. Yesterday we attended parliamentary hearings on the Paris summit on climate change, and there was talk about the true Basque level in renewables policies: 7% of final consumption is achieved. We understand that the data is far from European demands, far from the goals set by the Basque Government in this rostrum and far from the top ten of which Lehendakari assumed not too long ago. In the meantime, we believe that there is a paper in this Parliament, as Mr Maeztu said, which had a clear objective. We intended to listen to experts and scientists who defended one and the other, and from there the parliamentary groups would discuss politically in order to end up agreeing on the future energy policy of Euskadi. That's why the paper was created and that's what I thought we were in. From the beginning to the present, an abyss. In any case, the Government seems to be quite uninteresting in this presentation, because it has been unable to draw up a new energy strategy, the previous one being in force, without attempting to point out anything that the political parties intend to do in that presentation. Once again, do politics apart from everything. Today Mr Maeztu, EH Bildu, brings us a motion resulting from an inquiry. At the last full-session we attended a further debate or what was meant to be a further debate. Great words on the part of Councilwoman Tapia and few commitments. He insisted again on the diagnosis of the current energy policy. But it is also fair to acknowledge, Mr Maeztu, that you always address this issue by deepening the importance of the development of renewable energies, always staying in the headline. It is a goal of maxims, as you know, with minimum policies. We fail to delve into the crucial issue of the economic future of this country, which inevitably passes through the development of policies that address renewable energies. You know that we all defend renewable energies, we all think we need to develop renewable energies, but the problem comes when we say where we put them. It bothers us what has to do with the solar because it breaks the landscape; it bothers us to install wind power, always the citizen platforms appear against this. And, therefore, it is very difficult to implement a policy that carries out renewable energies when there is such an important answer as that which, you know, has always occurred in Euskadi when attempts have been made to implement, for example, the issue of wind energy. I myself brought an initiative to try to reach a political pact for wind energy. And it is that in this Autonomous Community it is impossible. We are an autonomous community capable of exporting wind energy to other places, we have pioneering companies that everyone looks at, which makes an important economic investment to develop it, but we are unable to launch it so that we can benefit from something that is part of our industrial fabric and in which a lot of money is being invested from the public coffers. The legislature is ending, we don't know anything about the wind PTS. As I say, we know that we are great exporters, but we are not able to agree anything, and the ball goes from one roof to another and institutions to others, from one political party to another, and we continue to talk and talk. Well, we haven't done it in that energy paper for a long time, which was meant to do something that the government has no intention of hearing. And to justify the launch of an energy policy by this government, we are being brought with us a new energy strategy with the 2030 horizon. The previous one was called Energy Strategy 2020. It therefore remains in force. This energy strategy, for which we have read the document, does not analyse the achievements of that strategy brought by the López Government. We believe that it would have been better first to make a document out of what has been achieved with that energy strategy, of which everyone spoke positively in that debate that the Socialists brought to the House, and perhaps it would have been necessary to update it, if anything has changed. But the PNV brings us a new one. It looks a lot, a lot like the previous one, not to mention it's almost flattened. And this is not the bad thing; the bad thing is that we do not really know what the Basque Government intends to do with this new strategy, which for us is only an excuse to be able to prove that Mr Urkullu's Government has done in this matter something that has so many times been demanded of him in this House. And the contributions of the various parliamentary groups we understand that they should not be ignored. It is important to discuss it at parliamentary level, and we believe that all groups will put forward political resolutions that will enrich the initial document. It is important to have clear planning, to be clear about what is desired and where the investments will go, and here I recall the role of this paper. I believe that there is work ahead; I believe that the Basque Government has had the opportunity to be part of that debate. We have listened to the EVE, but it would be important to listen to Mrs Tapia. We have heard from scientists, university professors and people working in the field of energy. And I think that this parliamentary work, which has been going on for more than two years, should not be obviated, let alone when we are finishing the legislature. International agreements continue to be signed, they continue to be ratified by the states that sign them, and here we have the last summit held in Paris in recent months. In my opinion, there are great words in this government about energy, great speeches, and, as I say, very little concreteness. The Energy Strategy 2020 was a good document, a good starting point. Not because I say it; we can use the minutes of that debate, we told everyone who participated that day in the parliamentary debate. The Socialist Government understood that the parliamentary groups had something to say, and we hope that after the Basque Nationalist Party has signed the compromise amendment, it will come to the House and we can all be part of the debate. The strategy we are being brought here today will probably be improved. It's a subject that we all care about, but it needs a lot of concreteness. For us, a fundamental lack is the lack of deepening on the subject of energy poverty; it speaks in a few lines of this, when today there is already in the media that there are more than 200,000 Basques affected by this subject, a subject that here has been denied in more than ten initiatives. The issue of self-consumption, discussed and agreed in this House, and the future of renewables in this country. We are in a situation where European demands are increasing and the document is obvious. The demand for renewables is on the rise, but there is no real installation plan, because we all know that it is a controversial issue and that Mr Urkullu has preferred to set aside. At the same time, we have passed a law banning fracking as a technique for achieving gas, and we ask for the closure of Garoña again and again because we do not believe in nuclear energy. And if we don't develop what we know to be the future, we don't want fracking, we don't want nuclear energy, we want to lower emissions and we want to bet on clean energy, while we don't want to give up anything and we don't have concrete plans for anything, I think we have something more than a serious problem. The Basque Socialists believe in the need for an agreement for energy. We believe that discussing the energy strategy in the broadest sense of the word is fundamental, but we believe that we must start making concrete decisions and making risky and clear bets. We are facing the policy that the Spanish Government has pursued by most of the political forces in this House. We are aware of who has the real competence in this matter, but we believe that there are many things that can still be done, and always at the hands of the Basque Parliament, and not by adopting decisions outside it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u49	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good noon. Mr. Mazezu, "The government doesn't bring it in and it's in the press." You need to show the general picture. General photography, and not partial, for the decision of the Basque Society. Señor Maeztu, tiene que enseñar la photoe, no una parcial photo. If we asked Ekologistak Martxan of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, SEO/BirdLife, Greenpeace, Adena, they would tell him that already since March 2015 and even... Because this already came, as Mrs Red said, from the proposals for resolutions of the 2020 Energy Strategy that we made in May 2012; we commented that a review of that strategy should be made at the end of 2014. As a result of this review and due to the economic crisis, it is established to develop a new document, but unlike the other two strategies that have been brought to this Parliament, and this, logically, too (I remind you that the first strategy by the Basque Nationalist Party, the second strategy by the Socialist Party and the third by us, and also comes to the Basque Parliament)... What is decided and what is new about this new development of this strategy? That there is a strategic environmental assessment that all groups had always wanted to have. And these groups (I don't know if you want to emphasize that argument that appeared in the press in December)... What is discussed in March 2015 and what is published is the scope of this strategic environmental assessment document, and this short draft is presented. And it is in May 2015 when it is already decided, with the initiatives of these groups and of different agencies that have intervened, the scope that this strategic evaluation of this Basque energy strategy paper needs to have. And, as a result of all that previous process, it is in December when, apart from appearing in the press as you say, the document for public consultation of this energy strategy of Euskadi and the strategic environmental study also appears publicly. Then transparency, everything. You have focused on emphasizing something that is false. I have here the notes of what you've been talking about. Why don't you bring the government in? Because it's now for the whole society to report it. With the subject of Euskadi, what we have to realise is that Euskadi is not an energy island. Like the Iberian peninsula, due to the low interconnection between France and Europe, but, even if there is a bottleneck, we are fully integrated into the European electricity system. And we must not forget that electricity is just a flow, and we have explained that in this House several times. When there is a need for energy – and we saw the example of Germany when they had that failure that Barcelona ran out of light – we have that interconnection, that all it needs is that there is more consumption in one area than in another, and automatically the electricity comes. We are within that European electrical scheme. We were also commenting – it is true that today it has not brought it up – on the whole issue of renewables. In this I say the same thing again: we need that full picture. And he gave us the example of Germany. It is true that Germany has 6 % of photovoltaics, even up to 30 % with the whole electrical theme, but at the overall level of all its energy this photovoltaics remains at 1 %. But please teach Basque citizens the full picture of Germany, which has eight nuclear power plants running until 2022; they are burning the worst coal they have, which is that of lignite. What's going on? That's yours. So, as they have it there... As for energy security, it is ahead of Spain. Why? Because he's burning his own coal. But what's wrong with him? That it is so bad and pollutes so much that its CO equivalent tons 2 They do not improve, and if they have improved, it has been this last winter, because it has been a more favorable winter. With this, the photo must be shown in full. Germany has 85 million inhabitants and is responsible for obtaining energy for all of them, and it has been decided by that model. Eye, they're also using fracking in the north! Regulated, yes, but fracking. Then you want to move this model here to Euskadi? Make it clear, teach the full picture. We need the full picture, because here we have 2.2 million inhabitants, Basques and Basques to offer that energy. So, you have to have your feet on the floor. To work all over that decarbonized, more renewable world, we always go to this one there. And in this respect, also our solidarity, as you have said, with the workers of the ACB. And it is also true – and we have to leave the issues at their place – that the ACB itself (declarations made by the chairman of the committee itself) has made it clear that measures have to be taken in energy prices, and hence our proposal would also aim at Europe trying to achieve a single regulatory framework. Why? Because, we agree with you, there is a harmful regulation at the level of the Spanish State on the subject of energy and we are suffering all those consequences. And in this case of the CWB, as the chairman of the committee said, although action must also be taken in the face of the high energy price, the priority is for the European Union to take initiatives to tackle the competition of Chinese steel, and to do so urgently. That's also to teach the citizen the full picture. With the theme also of the percentage of renewables we need the full photo. We have three interconnections with Iparralde: a line of 132,000, another of 200,000 and another of 400,000. The balance in 2015 is that we get 2,000 gigawatts. As – we have commented – electric energy is a flow, the same way we give, they give us; but we have a negative balance, we have absorbed 2,000 gigawatts more from France. Is your bet, Bildu's bet, is that to get that 20%, that 16%, like those 2,000 gigawatts come from French nuclear power, we have to cut them off? I don't think so, and I think you're in on it, too. We need that exchange, and Euskadi in that respect is very well intertwined in the electrical system with Navarra, with Cantabria, with Burgos... What's going on? Even at the level of indexes, data, Spain is above Germany in terms of accessibility of the electricity system for citizens. Germany beats us in that it has more security of supply, because it is burning its own coal; we do not. But in environmental sustainability Germany is in position 44 and Spain in 24. Why? We've already commented, because it's burning a coal that's horrible. But that's the full picture of what Germany has decided. Do we have to get Pasaia back, the coal plant? No, we have to work on renewables and we agree with you on that line, but with your feet on the ground. As for energy poverty, I would say the same again, Mrs Rojo and Mr Maeztu: let us look at the full picture. Energy poverty, above all by three concepts: scarcity of resources of our own citizens, aggravated by high energy prices, and old and low energy-efficient housing. With this, let us also analyze the global picture of Euskadi. Euskadi, the first community in the OECD welfare index, and the next community we get ten, we invest ten times more. We still have families with this problem, it's true. We have to work more for employment, we have to work more because they have more resources, because the price of energy is cheaper – and for that we have to change state regulation – and also for the efficiency of buildings and such old houses. We have to work on that line. In all that we will always go hand in hand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u51	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Passing over to the band that hasn't run any corrections, Mistto. He mustn't speak. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u52	Thank you, Madam President. I take the floor on behalf of the People's Group to set the position of the People's Group on this initiative. The position of the People's Group on the motion put forward by Bildu is to vote no. We have not tabled an amendment because we believe that the initiative does not deserve it. Initiative that in the first two paragraphs says that the rules of procedure are complied with, but before the deadline, without an approved document; therefore, not understandable. And the third paragraph, as it could not be otherwise, criticizing the many initiatives that the Spanish Government has launched in the field of energy. I would like to say to the gentlemen of EH Bildu that for our group, or for me, they have no credibility by criticising the Government of Spain. You have already shown in the last general elections that you have given your vote to another political formation; therefore, you have done away with what was yours. And I don't know if Mr. Maeztu is one of those who didn't get the message, but he has no credibility for us. Mr Maeztu said in the question that he wants a debate in this House on the energy model. Mr Maeztu, three years of parliamentary office; you have never raised a debate. He has been involved in the energy issue, he has never raised a debate. It is therefore not credible, Mr Maeztu, that you want a debate. And why does EH Bildu not want a debate on the energy issue, which is so troubling on the energy issue? For they know not what to do; they have no idea, nor what to do, nor how. It happens to them as in the treatment of waste. Four years criticizing the agreements of the other groups in Gipuzkoa on waste treatment, they come to the government and what was their model? A stick and a cube, that was his model. And in terms of energy, what is your model? The candle, they don't have another model. That's why you don't want a debate, you don't want an energy debate, you don't want it. Don't give a shit about this. Because if I had any interest, I would have raised it, but it has no interest. So, Mr Maeztu, that's where your energy model ends, in the sail. Mr. Maeztu goes out to this rostrum and, as I said to them, he entangles and entangles. And it also shows a great lack of knowledge. It shows a great lack of knowledge by saying that we have to have a model of our own for Euskadi, excluded from the rest, as if we were an abstract entity, knowing – or should know – that we produce a very small percentage of what we consume. And if not, what's your alternative? Well, the candle, we have nothing else, Mr. Maeztu. You propose us your model, the candle. In changing the energy strategy, as the Commissioner said in the question, what we are told is that by 2025 we will hardly be able to reach more than 16% in renewable energy production. And why?, says the counselor: no one wants to set up a renewable energy plant. Because the energy reform of the Spanish Government has done us a lot of damage, but a lot. Because we are in a situation of legal insecurity, and, ladies and gentlemen, legal certainty cannot consist in eternalizing Mr Zapatero's ecological fever and ruining the country, a fever which was joined by a group of companies so that, with the public aid of the public sector, they would have a positive result account, a group to which foreign investors and some of those who were ready to go there joined, and set up the great colloquium, the great juerga: expensive green energies, dominated by excessive public money, giving priority to the combined cycle to enter the system. This game has cost us all 25 billion euros. Good thing there's been a change of government! 25 billion euros that we have paid all the Spanish children, the weakest and the weakest, in the receipt of light. Mr. Maeztu said: "How did the receipt of the light come up! What a thing!". Listen, understand, this game we have paid for among all, because you have to be smart: I ride the game with public money and get paid by the Spaniards on the receipt. Interesting, interesting document. This should seem good to you, because you defend the lobby that protected you from the decree that was passed in the Zapatero government and you want to return the lobby this. No, now they promise us a technological leap. This is going to be triple mortal and we're going straight to the well, and from there we're not going to get either Rajoy or double Rajoy. Of course, this colloquium that Mr Rajoy's government closed felt very bad about the lobby and then we have to make resources. Mr Maeztu here has said 400 resources, I don't know how many resources. A single inspirer and a single funder of resources, okay?, double, with 400 names. And they went to court. Of course, Spain was a banana country, it generated legal uncertainty, and then they went to court. And the courts are answering, aren't they? You know that, Mr. Maeztu, right? And the Supreme has already said that a business that offered profitability above 20% should not live from the public purse, which with 8% of profitability was already more than enough, and gave reason to the Government of Spain. But since the Supreme Court was a justice of a banana country, it was banana justice, the cool foreign investors who came here to the colloquium went to the European courts. And you will also know that there has already been a first ruling, first arbitrariness, in Stockholm, and you have rejected the renewables' appeal and you give the Spanish Government the reason. But the Constitutional Court has also ruled and endorses the cut in renewables by considering that it respects the principles of non-retroactivity and legal certainty. Therefore, there is no legal uncertainty, Mr Maeztu (also for the Counsellor, who should not have been informed). And that's the reality. The question is: a government, a party that presides over it or a lehendakari that aspires to have a state status, why does it not create a programme of aid for renewables?, does the Government of Spain have to come to give subsidies to companies to invest in the Basque Autonomous Community? This is singular, very singular. Mr Lehendakari told us, Mr Urkullu, just over a year ago, after Mr Rajoy's decree, that Euskadi would be in 2020 at the top of renewable energies. Mrs. Tapia hadn't told him that the cut Mr. Rajoy had made was doing us a lot of damage. No, Mr Urkullu, Mrs Tapia, ladies and gentlemen of the Government: neither in 2020 nor in 2025. We'll hardly get to 16%. We didn't turn 20-20. Mrs Tapia was very graceful in the interpellation when she said that 20% of renewable energy in 2020 is a commitment of the states, which is not a commitment of Euskadi. That the state will have to comply, but that she does what she can. And I wonder: if you want to have a state status, as has been said here this morning, do you want to have it only for rights?, not for obligations? It's surprising the caradure of some. It's amazing. Mr Maeztu, you spoke here today of energy saving, in the interpellation you did not mention it; you were very attentive yesterday to the class of your leaders. He didn't talk about energy saving and efficiency, you don't care about this. I remind you, the cheapest and cleanest energy is not consumed. And wind power, this debate is missing. What a problem! Three years you say the debate is missing, and here the government, too, "We are missing this debate." The Socialist Group too. Oh, we're missing the debate. What a thing!, we had forgotten, we had not remembered. You do not want a debate, because I do not think you have any internal agreement on what to do with wind energy. And it is also an important element for making noise, which is what interests you. And, of course, the government, Mr Urkullu, lehendakari who wants no noise... We are in Zen politics, in inaction politics. There we are, without debate, being the greatest potential we have to produce renewable wind energy. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, less falsehood, less hypocrisy, because it is already three years of stirring and salsing in order not to arrive...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u53	Amaitzen joan, López de Ocariz anderea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u54	Yeah, I'm done. Briefly, to say that we will also vote against the compromise amendment. I would like to congratulate Mr Carro because he has managed to ensure that there is not a single commitment to the Basque Government in this amendment. Point 1: "Return the Strategy...". Who? An abstract entity, we don't know who. Point 2: "Present...". Who's this? Point 3: "The Energy Strategy works...". Does the strategy have its own entity? I don't know. But what is this?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u55	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u56	Really, is this serious? Is this serious? This is a joke. Now, point 4 does...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u58	Point 4: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government of Spain...". They have agreed here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u60	Hey, this is funny. What a shame! What a disrespect! Is this laziness or what is this? Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u61	Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz, thank you. After the answers, Mr. Mazzu, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Firstly, to clarify one thing to Mr Carro, because more than once we have discussed this issue. We and we, when referring to the model of Germany and the installed capacity of photovoltaics that Germany has, do not do this to mimetically copy that energy model. The other day I explained it to the counselor, to tell her that if Germany can have 6% of its total installed power that is photovoltaic, here too we can do it, and here we have 0.2%. And I don't think there's more sunlight in Germany than in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa. If that bet on renewables can be made in Germany, it can be made here too. But the debate is not only that the future has to be renewable, that energy production — rather, the transformation — because energy does not occur — has to be renewable, but how those decisions are made and how we make citizens partakers of those decisions, which is one of the great shortcomings that exists in the current energy model. Because Mrs Red also said, and more than once she has put it before us, that we all defend renewable energies, but that we never agree where windmills should be put. Similarly, if we were to involve citizens in this energy model of energy production, of those energy mills, as in other places, by establishing energy production cooperatives, and it is clear that they too benefit from that consumption and the economic benefits of that energy, perhaps the situation would be different. Because, as I said before, it is not only where we produce or where we transform and how we transform energy, what are the sources of that energy, but who and where we make the decisions about that energy transformation. And I'm going to set an example, and I'm going to try to move it with a sentence. At the moment, there are families and citizens here who suffer from energy poverty because there is energy poverty, because there are miserable people who leave decisions on energy in the hands of a few companies, on a fundamental good for the well-being of people and for our economic development. Therefore, there is energy poverty because there are also miserable energy issues. And what we can't do by public institutions, knowing that, is to wash the image of those companies. And take pictures like the one we took this week by lehendakari and two advisors from the Basque Government with one of the companies guilty of the situation in the energy sector. As this meeting is being held, surely the distribution company of this gentleman, Mr Galán, who is the Minanco Site of electricity in this country, will be giving orders to cut supply to houses in this country. And if he doesn't and if he doesn't cut that supply, it's because with public money, through the Red Cross, we're paying him bills, not because he's deciding that these families are entitled to basic energy consumption. Nor can it be that, at a time when we have companies such as those on the street today alongside this Parliament, such as ACB, which in some cases have to pay up to 75% more toll for access to the network, this gentleman goes out with the adviser saying that tolls must be lowered to the Basque industry, when it is his distributor who pays those tolls. One cannot have the face to say, after that interview to wash the image to this gentleman, that it cannot be that the invoice has only 40% of the actual cost of electricity and the rest are taxed. These are the taxes that we pay this gentleman for the nuclear moratorium that in his day a government decided to give to his company to manage the nuclear waste of the benefit of its nuclear facilities like Garoña, to pay him some costs that in his day were agreed, that they were called "transition to competition", so that they continue to win these companies. Therefore, the problem in the energy sector in this country is not only where we get energy, but how we involve society in those decisions and in a right to a basic good, such as energy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u64	Thank you, President. And by going in order, Mr. Car, the full picture we already have. I have already told you that we have talked about the diagnosis of this particular issue – only to go to the Journal of Sessions of this House – on countless occasions. We already know the diagnosis, we already have the full picture. What we do not have is concrete evidence from this government of what it wants to do about energy, with a little more commitment than the headlines we sell to the media, who are able to talk about the top ten in renewable energies. Top ten, and we're at 7%. I think this issue is much more serious, not to mention the frivolity with which Mrs López de Ocariz has done it. Mr. Maeztu. I think you're running away from the renewables issue. It's started, but then it's gone. We cannot turn to the opinion of the citizens only when we are interested. You can't. And EH Bildu has an opinion on what it has to do with renewable energy, which is then not based on concrete proposals. And since they don't want to read it any more than it is related to this issue, we are going to go to the citizens concerned only on this issue. In others we already say. For example, in PaP guipuzcoano. That's where we asked them. The citizens thought, and did what they wanted; the opposite, by the way, of what many Gipuzcoan municipalities said. Here the political parties have political commitments that are reflected in the electoral programmes. By the way, what you have proposed on the subject of renewable energies is on the agenda of the PSOE which Mr Sánchez has proposed to negotiate with the other political forces. For example. But you on this issue where you don't know what to say, because you know that then you are the first to take the banner of the platforms, then "Let's ask the citizens to see what they tell us about the windmills, the solars." Then you are protagonists of all the platforms that say ez ("fracking ez", "eolikak ez", "solar ez"). They're always there, and then they get caught up in that speech. And, Mrs López de Ocariz, the usual subject was missing: Mr Zapatero is also to blame for this, too. But I prefer to keep Mr Zapatero's policy on this subject than to talk to Rajoy's cousin on the subject of climate change. Here's for everyone, Mrs. López de Ocariz. And you have spoken here very frivolously about the subject and wanted to give us lessons from a tone... when you are the only spokesman who has not spoken about the substance of the subject, beyond disqualifying the political opinions of the rest. You say, "You don't want the debate," "You don't need the debate." It is that the debate on wind energy, for example, I brought it to this House and you voted against it. We already know they want nuclear power and the rest don't. We know they want fracking and the rest don't. We already know that they want prospecting, as they wanted to do in the Canary Islands, and the rest of the political parties said no. You don't need the debate, you need the roller, and this time it hasn't come out. So, what I propose from the responsible position is: there is a parliamentary presentation of which we are all part, a presentation in which we all commit ourselves, from listening to experts and politicians, and to people working in the field of energy, to debate in order to be able to agree on the lines that will mark energy policy. And this is what I think we should do. If we all know what we think about all the issues! If those of us here are in all the institutions (in the parliaments, in the municipalities, in Congress, in the Senate)! We're everywhere. Let's stop cheating and talking and talking about what should be done, about the diagnoses. And, Mr Carro, let's talk about investments. What are you going to do about renewables? I have read the Energy Strategy document which now seems to be bringing Parliament to debate, and it does not go beyond proposing, encouraging, encouraging... No, no, We know that. We all agree on that. With the full picture, as you speak. With the full picture, recognizing the energy dependence that Euskadi has on Spain, on Europe – we are not going to cheat, we know it – what does the Basque Government want to do? Because making energy strategies that do not involve commitments of time, of economic investment and of clear commitments, working with the business fabric that Euskadi has, we will continue to bring debates to this House that will serve no purpose. And it is all very well that today we agree on an amendment in which the Basque Nationalist Party signs the debate in Parliament, but it would be much better if the government had brought it without asking us; including you, I mean. Because they also said they were going to make Uribe Kosta the biotope and they didn't. They also said they were going to do one thing with DOTs and do the opposite. It is that parliamentary mandates the PNV takes them as it wants to take them and only pays attention to what it is interested in. We have an energy problem. The country's economic solutions pass through energy. So, let's get to work within the forums that we ourselves have created. You're the president of the paper, and I warned: "It's not going to do any good, it's going to die in a drawer," and here we see that the government doesn't even believe in that political work table where the lines that marked the future of Basque energy were to be born.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u65	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u66	I therefore hope that the amendment we have agreed will do something. But I'm pretty pessimistic about it. This government passes absolutely from Parliament and point, except for what it is interested in and what it is interested in.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u67	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u68	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maeztu, I'm getting the renewables back from Germany, but only the renewables. For anyone, for any family who arrives at the end of the month, their situation is one and unique. We can't take out or recognize "Look how pretty his arm is!", "How beautiful his eye is!", or if I spend five to do this, because in the end it's five less than I have. And the picture of Germany today is very ugly. He was also telling us about the tolls, about Iberdrola... I think he should listen to the statements of the president of the workers of the ACB, who has had him there recently, and that is the one that recognizes him that the prices of energy and those tolls are due to this disastrous regulation of the People's Party. And you know that. The only thing that this company does is to move what the People's Party Government has done over the past four years, and that is the reality. With regard to what this Government is doing. This Government is continuing to support more than 350 highly specialized energy companies employing more than 24,000 people. And not only that, but that translates into facts. And I'm going to tell you only two programs at the international level. This, in which BCMAterials is working, is the European project Novamag. This is a European project that transfers more to the European project. And there are 15 centers in Europe, the United States and Japan. And why? Because we're talking about the whole issue of permanent magnets. In order to be able to give that definitive takeoff to renewables, these permanent magnets are needed because they have a lot of that mineral that we call rare materials and that are the vast majority in China. So, that work at the international level is led here by a Basque company. Another of that future of our renewables: the European Opera project. It is coordinated by Tecnalia and EVE and will develop a technology that will allow a reduction of operating costs with the whole issue of the sea and electricity generation through the waves. In this respect, which is a little more delayed, there is also a European initiative, supporting our companies to achieve this. About the energy talk. It is true that the last meeting of the energy presentation was on December 22. It is also true that it has stood still a little, and it is a little the big issue that Mr Maeztu has brought up today, which is the harmful energy regulation. We have not been able to bring in any representative of the Spanish Government, and we are now waiting and hoping that there will be a new government to change this so disastrous policy, Mrs López de Ocariz. And this is the sad reality. I know you have a brown one today, but that is the four-year reality of this government, which in energy regulation has done it very badly, and there is not a single company that dares to invest here in renewables. Thank God we have a great business fabric, which is working internationally, which is above and saving furniture. Thanks to that, because if we had to be dependent on Spain, we would have it very raw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u69	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Carro, I'm so proud to be in the People's Party. I am very proud of the President of my party and the Government of Spain, Mr Rajoy. I am very proud of the Government of Spain presided over by Mr Rajoy. I can't be more proud, I'm proud to defend you. Do you have any questions? Because I can give you more data, okay? Mr Carro, you, who supported the Zapatero Government and supported the Guateque that was set up by the Zapatero Government, with renewable companies, that these must be fetal. There must be good lobbies and bad lobbies. You are with the good lobbies: Abengoa, ACS... Shall we continue? Foreign investors who make circular economies, right?, who come, collect public money and freak out, and invest it out. That's what you support. I think it's so embarrassing, so demagogic, it's worth it. And here, if we have our capacity for self-government and self-management and we aspire to have equal status, listen, renewable aid decree, go mark it. "Oh, we don't have a euro." A problem. "They don't have a euro." No, no, Mr. Car. Mrs Red wanted to thank her for giving me the floor to remind her that the Socialist Party is one thing she writes, another thing she says and another thing she does. But there are some things that are marked for history. And if there is one, it's Mr. López lehendakari's photo: three years old, but he gave him time to go to Dallas, perfectly uniformed, to take the cover photo next to the fracking wells. Mrs. Red, what are you doing? But what does it say? And he didn't talk about energy poverty, he didn't talk about it today. Who has been the biggest generator of energy poverty? Yes, because the guateque that they set up we paid for it all the Spaniards in the receipt, month by month, that we have just paid for it now. And now the other game, which is the technological leap, will come, and then it will seem like a joke to us, and these gentlemen will support it. That's funny, isn't it? It's just that it's fun. Really, what little shame, what little respect and what little loyalty. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been shown, they have adopted a compromise amendment which does not oblige the Basque Government to do anything. The strategy will come at its own feet here and it will tell us, I don't know, cartoons. Really, but what did they sign? But what do you read? But what are they doing? What a shame!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. After discussion, we'll vote for EH Collect, the Middle Amendment signed by Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the assembly, 71; votes given, 72; supporters of 63; opponents of the contrary, 9; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u72	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, introduced by the members of Laura Garrido Knörr Basque Group, about the fun of Christmas. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs Garridio, it's yours to introduce and dismiss the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs of departments, congressmen, good morning again. Again on a subject, but on a particular subject, we may say that this government does not fulfil its duties. And in order not to comply with his duties, when we speak of the Legislature calendar, we think it's a serious subject, and so we accused the President of the interpelation which had been made in the assembly before. But the President made no answer, Mr. Erkoreka replied. And in that answer we heard excuses, which, according to that, and because the Euská MUDY doesn't accept his responsibility in this matter, we finally decided to make a motion. We may say that this government has a clear suspense in order to fill the legislature calendar. The Basque Government has a clear and consistent suspension in the implementation of its legislative timetable. We are talking about the calculation of passed laws, which is a clear indicator for assessing the management of a government. I am not going to bring in the words of Enrique Lucas Murillo, who already quoted them in my last speech and whom Mr Erkoreka, who was the one who answered my question, had occasion to listen. He made it very clear that government action materialized in legislative capacity. In this case we may say, that actions are clear, firm, and unanswerable; The facts are clear, clear and indisputable and describe the following picture in relation to government action, in relation to the fulfilment of legislative commitments by this Government. Five bills out of the 29 bills that were included in the legislative calendar have been adopted. Mr Erkoreka spoke of nine, making a small trap, because he added to the five approved of the legislative calendar four more. Mr Erkoreka added to us the measures on overtime payments and the projects for which the 2014 budgets were approved, 2015, 2016, taking into account that the first draft budgets had to be withdrawn for lack of support in this House. The five draft laws (now in force) covered by this legislative calendar are: the Basque Statistical Plan Act 2014-2017, the Law on the Prevention and Correction of Land Pollution, the Act on the Status of Women Farmers, the Act on the Fifth Amendment of the Elections to the Basque Parliament Act and the Law on Public Shows and Recreational Activities, bearing in mind that the latter two, as Mr. Erkoreka will recall, were adopted at the last plenary session of the previous session, that is, on 23 December 2015. Here too, we must remember the bills that have been withdrawn. One came to this House, the draft law of the public administration, but at the last moment this government, in order not to suffer a clear defeat due to its lack of political waistline and its lack of consensus on an essential project, had to withdraw it. With regard to two other bills, the Basque Government has renounced its referral to this Parliament. They are the Basque employment law and the law on environmental protection, which have not even reached the Basque Parliament. Of those in processing, nine have arrived in the last year. The delay is therefore quite considerable if we look at all the dates on which it was planned that these bills would be referred to the House and the date on which they arrived. I say that the delay is considerable, and that Mr Erkoreka in his reply to the question told us that the deadline for drafting a bill in the Government, according to all the internal processing that a bill has to follow, is one year. Seeing that the nine bills have arrived in the past year, it is clear that you have been asleep for some time. And of those who are in the process, we will see how many are approved at this session, which is the last of the legislature, taking into account that it is five months before the end of the legislature. In some of them, the respective appearances have not yet been heard, and the beginning of the discussion in the presentation following the tabling of amendments is very green. And according to the last update of the legislative timetable that has been forwarded to the House on 2 February, there are bills that we can clearly say are not coming to this Parliament. We are talking about the bill on tourism, the Basque Employment Bill (to which the Government has already renounced its referral), the draft law on cooperatives in Euskadi (a bill also demanded on numerous occasions in this Parliament), the draft law on subsidies and aid from the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, the draft law amending Legislative Decree 1/2011 of 24 May, approving the consolidated text of the existing legal provisions on budgetary arrangements in Euskadi and regulating the budgetary arrangements applicable to the Foundations, Consortiums. Draft law on the methodology for the distribution of resources and the determination of contributions in the outlaws, draft law on the cultural heritage of the Basque Country, draft law on documents and archives of the Basque Country, draft law on the exercise of the professions of the sport of the Basque Country, draft law on the police of the Basque Country and draft general law on the protection of the environment, to which I referred earlier. All of these bills are covered in this report by 29 bills and have not yet come to Parliament. And we are very afraid that you will not arrive, and in case you arrive, all of you will understand, ladies and gentlemen, that it is very difficult for you to see the light. Therefore, the picture is quite desolating, to qualify it in some way. It is 11 of those 29 who have not yet arrived, which are the ones I have just pointed out. As we have already stated in the question answered by Mr Erkoreka, and not by Mr Lehendakari, to whom he was addressed, there has been a clear breach of the word given by the Government itself and by the Lehendakari itself, when on repeated occasions and when this legislative calendar was presented in this rostrum we were told by the Lehendakari who committed himself to the submission and adoption of 29 bills during this legislature. We may further say, that the Government has given contempt to the legislature in regard to this subject. And we would add, as we added last week, that this Government has even shown contempt for this Parliament, when there are mandates from this Autonomous House urging the Basque Government to speed up the processing of pending bills, and, above all, concrete bills, such as the Cooperatives Bill and some others. We can therefore say that this Government has failed to comply with this Parliament's legislative timetable, not yet presenting many bills that have been called for and arriving with an obvious and noted delay others. And forgive me, Mr Erkoreka – who is here as a member of the present government – I would have liked to have been the lehendakari, because it seems to me an important debate to measure government action and action with this panorama that we have described. There's no interpretation here. Here the facts, as I said earlier, are clear, robust, and little discussion can have. He said it wasn't worth an apology. And you, when you answered my question the other day, went back to an excuse, threw balloons out again, laying down the responsibility for not having a sufficient or adequate number to at least have the one approved as a government in terms of the legislative action that has been promoted, laying the responsibility, I mean, in the Basque Parliament and in the groups that we have representation in this Parliament. I don't know if he was referring to yours, too. But if anyone has a responsibility, it is the Government, which has not had the proper speed in the transmission of the bills to the Basque Parliament. Nine of them have been referred in the past year, apart from the 11 that have not yet been referred. And, on the other hand, when a government – we talked about this already in the interpellation, because it was one of the issues that you were very interested in – does not have enough majorities, it has to look for sufficient majorities, because, if not, it finds that it has to withdraw bills, as happened with the budget bill and the public administration bill. Therefore, they do again an exercise of escapism, they throw again balloons out. It seems that everyone has the blame less the main driver of a government's legislative activity, which is also the one who really has the tools, the tools, the human resources to legislate. It is true that the opposition can make proposals for legislation, but it is the Government that is responsible for legislative activity in its own name, because it is the Government that is supposed to promote this activity. It is also true that in this House we have met with opposition initiatives or popular legislative initiatives driven by citizens in very substantial matters due to the inaction of this government. Therefore, the commitments made, which you have acquired as a Government and the Lehendakari himself, have not been met, which demonstrates a clear inaction by this Government. That is why we have also said that we are faced with a lack of initiative, a government that shows passivity, a government that seems to be relying on the course of events. And that's why we've used adjectives that I think come very well in front of the evidence of the facts, such as those of an apathetic, passive, anesthetized government. And all this passiveness shows a clear lack of ambition and where the real priorities of this Government lie. We have tabled a motion in which we note that the Basque Government is passive in complying with the legislative timetable. And then we also thought it important to pick up the idea of again urging the government to speed up the processing of pending bills, prioritizing those that are most relevant in order to solve the real problems of Basque citizens, in order also to order the work of the House. In view of the amendments tabled, we have reached a compromise amendment. I believe that this is an important agreement – which again leaves this government in evidence in relation to the repeated breach of the legislative timetable – between the Socialist Party and UPyD, to which I am grateful for the cooperation, for which it will be possible to urge the government again in this matter. And let us hope that once and for all the batteries will be put in, although, as with the examinations, the student is not sufficiently prepared and it is clear that the examination will not be approved. The only thing, to see if, instead of having a rotund suspense, it manages to reach the four and a half. But we believe that at five already difficult, because of those in processing many will not be approved and many of those who are not coming or going to arrive. Yo expect to see the tambiens los grupos que no presentado enmiendas humé estoy refiriendo a EH Collect, no correction has been introduced. Even the Jelt Party has not shown any correction, but I suppose it will not impose any obligations on this government with the appropriate text. It would be possible to derive this agreement from the legislature, and to re-establish duties, and to accuse the position of this government of the Legislature calendar when we speak of it. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u74	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u75	Thank you, President. We have signed a transactional agreement between the three groups, but I have to admit that it is a transactional agreement that has finally been cut short, because apparently there has been some group that has decided not to include the complaint in relation to the government's apparent failure to comply with the legislative timetable. Both the original initiative and the amendment by the UPyD group were talking about denouncing non-compliance with the legislative timetable, but the Socialist Group seems to have preferred to replace this verb with that of noting. I believe that this Parliament should say something more than 'consists of the government's failure to comply with the legislative timetable'. I believe that this Parliament should denounce that this government has failed to meet the deadlines it set at the beginning of the parliamentary term. In any case, I believe that the spirit is maintained, beyond what we can then hear from the representative of the Socialist Group. Mrs Garrido made a summary of the situation. You've told the facts as they have been. Only five bills have been passed during these three years of the legislature: the Act on the Status of Women Farmers, the Act on Public Shows and Recreational Activities, the Basque Statistical Plan Act 2014-2017, the Act amending the Elections to the Basque Parliament Act and the Act on the Prevention and Correction of Land Pollution. Some of these projects were already submitted late, were submitted out of time. But, in any case, only those five bills have been passed during these three years. And the Government has a responsibility not only to introduce the bills, but also to adopt them. Because it is supposed that, when a bill is introduced, the Government has the supposed support of other groups, or at least it should be. But, in any case, only five bills have been passed. In addition, the Civil Service Act was withdrawn and a law as important and necessary as the Basque Employment Act has been deleted from the legislative timetable. The general environmental protection law of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has also been withdrawn. In relation to the contribution law, it is neither expected nor expected. We can go on analyzing project by project to show – not only to note, but to denounce – the government's failure to comply with the legislative calendar it presented at the time. The Commercial Activity Act provided for the Government to submit it in the first half of 2014; it was registered on 16 February 2015. The Animal Protection Act is supposed to be introduced during the first half of 2014; it has not even been registered. The contribution law was to be introduced during the first half of 2014; it has not even been introduced today. The municipal law of Euskadi was to be introduced during the first half of 2014; it was registered at the end of the same year. The law on public administration was filed out of time. It was scheduled to be presented during the first half of 2014 and was presented late; in addition, after that, due to insufficient support, it was withdrawn. The law amending the Emergency Management Act was to be introduced in the first half of 2014; it was introduced late in the second half of 2014. The founding law of the Basque Country was to be introduced during the second half of 2014; it was registered on July 20, 2015. The law on the management of the legal service of the Basque Government was to be introduced in the second half of 2014; it was then registered, out of time, a few days later. The law of the third social sector was also to be presented during the second half of 2014; it was presented at the beginning of 2015. The addictions law was to be introduced during the second half of 2014, and was already registered in 2015. The Euskadi port law was to be introduced during the first half of 2014 and has recently been registered in this Parliament. The law on the regulation of fire prevention and extinguishment and rescue services was to be introduced during the first half of 2015; it was registered during the second half of 2015. The Basque employment law was due to be introduced a year ago; it has not been introduced and has finally been withdrawn from the legislative calendar. The savings bank amendment law was to be introduced in the first half of 2015; it was introduced in the summer of 2015. The law on vocational training in the Basque Country was to be introduced during the second half of 2015; it was introduced in 2016. And so with practically all the bills. Some aren't going to introduce themselves. Others, the vast majority, have presented themselves out of time, and many of them not only out of time, but far out of time. Conclusion of all this. Evidence: flagrant non-compliance with the legislative timetable initially presented by the Basque Government. It is not enough, therefore, to note this; it must be denounced. Hence our amendment. That is why we proposed that this Parliament denounce this repeated violation of the timetable by the Government, as well as its political inaction on essential political initiatives for Basque citizens. And that is why we proposed to urge the Government to speed up the referral of pending bills, and to give priority to relevant and useful legislative action for citizens, leaving aside other sterile debates. Nor has the Historical Territories Act been reformed to date, which we consider to be a law that must be reformed. He hasn't been reformed, he's not going to reform. There are a number of appeals lodged by a number of members of Parliament and there will also be no final reform of the Historical Territories Act. Nor do we have a law of transparency, when it is a few months before the end of the legislature, nor will we have an employment law. Nor has the Electoral Law been reformed, as it should have been reformed; a number of patches have been introduced, but it has not gone to the political, to the essential of what should have been reformed. Nor has the Basque Court of Public Accounts Act been reformed to depoliticize and professionalize it. Nor has the Ararteko Act been reformed to resize the institution. The Government could have submitted both bills; it did not want to do so. It had to be other groups that presented these initiatives. To this day these legal changes have not yet been carried out. The Basque Government does not assume its responsibility and blames the political groups, in an attitude which we consider to be absolutely shameful, because it has obviously failed to meet practically all the deadlines to which it committed itself at the time. And this is the reality, beyond the fact that these bills or their debate can be extended over time. The fact is that virtually all late, out-of-date bills have been introduced, which is going to make some bills not go through this legislature. On the other hand, thanks to the parliamentary groups, the Housing Act was adopted, probably the most important law adopted in recent years; on the initiative of the opposition and with the votes of the opposition. And the Shared Custody Act was also passed, at the initiative of Basque society itself, through an ILP. These are, therefore, the facts. The Basque Government blames Parliament, but the responsibility, Mr Erkoreka, is yours. It is not only the laws passed that need to be analysed, but also the drafts submitted to this House and the time at which they were presented. Indeed, and although it is not the responsibility of the Basque Government, we can recall the failure to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament, as a result of which the President does not convene the appropriate committee to reform the Rules of Procedure, I suppose that as a result of an opaque pact between different political groups. We presented our initiatives in the summer of 2014, 103 initiatives to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Basque Parliament; over the past year and a half, that committee has met twice. Therefore, here the responsibilities are several and all of them have a single political color, which is the political color of the Basque Nationalist Party. Conclusion: not only do we see, but we denounce the government's failure to comply with the legislative timetable, which has preferred to insist on sterile debates rather than solving the real problems of the people. That's the summary. The facts are obvious: flagrant non-compliance. And, therefore, our complaint to these facts. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u77	Thank you, President. It is not, much less, the first time that this matter has been brought to this Chamber and I am afraid that it will again be debated in what is left of the legislature, because diligence, speed, initiative as characteristics are not precisely those that adorn this Government, except in an area in which it must be recognized that they are diligent, that of advertising and auto-bomb, paid with the resources of everyone, where they are very active. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said of the various tasks that constitute government action. Just remember, by putting on the table the government's own commitments, what were the three strategic axes he defined for this legislature (strengthening economic recovery and employment, advancing in peace and coexistence and achieving a new political status for Euskadi) and then checking what has been done. Last but not least, of course, because the Government has claimed that it is the parliamentary groups that do the work for it. It is protected in Parliament, for this it is; that they give me the subject and I do not have to commit myself. The same applies to the management of the end of ETA, although the responsibilities here are somewhat more divided; much plan, much paid study, much confusion and at the end little substance. And as far as the reactivation of the economy and employment is concerned, what do you want me to tell you? And what the government has had with the responsible collaboration of the Socialist Party, which has given it budgetary stability in the first place (economic resources from fiscal reform, included in the country agreement we signed in 2013) and ideas, in addition, to implement specific programmes, and also some other eardrop to get them out of the way and put the batteries in. But if there is an area in which the passiveness of this Government is faithfully reflected, it is in the fulfilment of its own legislative timetable. This was not a Parliament imposition, it is never; it is a government responsibility to present the timetable, they are their own commitments and they themselves set the deadlines. In three years and three months that we have been in the legislature, 18 laws have been passed in this Parliament. Seen this way, it seems to be quite presentable, but of them only the third part corresponds to projects submitted by the Government, and have not been precisely those of greatest importance and public impact. In fact, if we leave out the approval of the budgets, more legislative initiatives promoted by the Socialist Group have come forward than those promoted by the Executive itself, which is quite curious. At the moment we have 24 projects in the House, of which 14 have been presented by the Executive, nine by the opposition groups and one by the popular initiative. It does not seem to be a very clear balance at this stage and it does not seem that, in view of the time remaining, it will be at the end of the parliamentary term. And the government knows it perfectly well, as the Basque Nationalist Party knows. For some time now, therefore, Mr Urkullu's government has embarked on creating a thick smokescreen with this issue. On the one hand, it seeks to speed up the transmission of draft laws which it had to submit in the first year of the legislature and not the last, and which knows perfectly well that at this point they are not going to be able to pass, because there is no time or legislative capacity. And, like bad students, the government wants to take out in one night the subject it has had abandoned throughout the course. And look like he's already done it. Because that is the second strategy, to endorse the result of their lack of diligence to this Parliament, to the parliamentary opposition groups, urging them to work more quickly. It is gratifying that, with this background, the lehendakari transfers to the House the responsibility for passing laws which in some cases has not even been referred to this Parliament. And in addition, to curl the curl, it asks the groups for more rhythm and less deliberation. They're textual words. And that is told to a parliamentary chamber, one of whose main functions is precisely the deliberation, among other things, of legislative drafts. "Well, don't think so much, don't deliberate, don't think and approve of what I bring you to the House," is what the lehendakari comes to us. These are textual words of him, which seem tremendously serious to me. And it is sad that a government that was forced to withdraw budgets at night, because it had not worked the necessary support to approve them; that it was rejected a bill of public administration by the disabled; that it has ceased a draft employment law, creating a fire between the current councillor and the former, or that it sells for June another project, that of victims of police abuse, which does not even appear in the update of the legislative calendar that has been sent to this Parliament just two weeks ago. And it is even more graceful to call for the activation of legislative work from a formation that in the past has tried to block all the initiatives of the previous Government and that has again resorted to the Arbitral Commission to paralyse the processing of the initiative to revise the Historical Territories Act. It has been recalled here that one of the most important laws of this legislature has undoubtedly been the Housing Act. Everyone will remember how long the Housing Act, which was delayed, among other things, by the Basque Nationalist Party, has been going through for this Parliament so that it could not be passed; almost three years, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party, one of the most important laws that has been passed in this Parliament. It is true that in the end they had to say that the law made it their own, but they did their utmost to ensure that there was no such law in this Parliament. And we're going to get into municipal law, too. Do you know when the government introduced the municipal bill? On November 17, 2014, almost two years after this Parliament was formed; and it was neither for lack of previous texts nor for lack of better texts than the one that arrived. And this is the second earlier project of the 14 that they have in process. And now, of course, the rush comes. In its motion, the People's Group proposes that we denounce the passiveness of the Government in complying with the legislative timetable, something on which almost all groups agree. And on a second point, he urges you to speed up the revision of the pending bills, and it seems to us that at this stage of the legislature, asking the government for this is not only a redundancy, but a sterile exercise, which would only lead to the makeup of its indolence and capacity. Because approving what I hope we approve today is already a sufficiently strong complaint, in the first place. And because we thought – and fortunately, I think it has been well reflected in the amendment – that we need to be constructive, and that is why we propose that the Government tell this Parliament which of those bills, which are in theory on the legislative agenda, are considered to be a priority adoption because they are particularly important for citizens or because they affect a greater number of citizens, in order to better order the work of the House and not to waste time in zarandajas, that time has already been wasted enough by the Government. We also invite you to, instead of raising smokescreens, venting guilt, really define those priorities and tell us what those six or eight projects are – I don't put the number, they are Mr. Egibar's words just a few days ago, I put it on the table in a very realistic way – which are those six or eight projects you consider possible to approve, in order to try to get them forward. And that is what we are calling for, for the Government to give concrete priority to us, so that the parliamentary groups can assess the outstanding tasks, focus their efforts on projects that really have the greatest impact on society, with rigour and responsibility. Don't let it happen to us like some initiatives. Here we have the presentation of duplicity sleeping the dream of the righteous, without its president having to call it ever. Here we also have some other proposal, such as the law of foundations, where there is a request for appearances made by the opposition groups of which nothing is known; they are never summoned, they are not quoted and, therefore, the work is paralysed. There is an interest in paralysing parliamentary activity.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u78	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Passing over to those who have no corrections, the representative of the EH Collector. Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u79	Good noon, everyone. The making and accepting of laws is essentially the task of this Chamber and Government. We are all already acquainted with the legislative activity which has been exercised in this legislation, and we all know what it is. As a matter of fact, the Basque People had no intention of reproaching the Government because we believe that the capacity shown by the Government in this area is obvious to all. On the other hand, what has been given us was that the party which supports the government more than the opposition has been anticipated, and that there have been some spokesmen of the Jestle Party of Eucommens, who have formed an account of the government and of two expeditions between this Chamber, suggesting that the Government is working with zeal, and partly by suggesting that we are trying to prevent or explain the activity of the opposition groups. That's got us an attention. We think that's a bandage before the wound. So that gave us a shock. And it's also given us an attention while they were opening those texts from the Jestle Party, for example to say that the New Year will cancel two legal projects: on the one hand the law of defending the environment, and on the other the law of employment. Even the clerk gives us a little attention. There will be no law for the public, but plans, tactics, proposals, and propaganda, that's every day and every week. But the law itself in the drawer. As I said, it's not our intention to insist on this. Time is the only polygraph, you say. Six years have been agreed from a list of 29, introduced by the Government, and we shall see how many more are allowed in this interval for the succession of legislation, to rate it in the succession of legislation, and to measure the legislative initiative or power of government. By the way, I'd be all right if you'd let everybody know how much time we've got left. One day, Mr. Erkora says one thing, next the President says another, and it would be well for us all to know what period of time we have left here to the legal proceedings, especially in the more important laws which may be made untested. So making laws progress is a task of the government. And if they don't come out, we'll all be responsible, but each of us in a different grade, and the government will have the highest degree. In short, it is the only law of budgets that have advanced for six years. What we can say about the budgets we're talking about is that there's been a constraintal budget, and that more than the deficiency of social justice and the law. This will mark the government that led this legislation. And as to the legislative action, we believe that it is in the same sense; that is to say, a narrow and weak faculty, in our opinion. The American people, on the other hand, have been absorbed in the transferment of laws, and in those brought by the Government, and in those which have been brought by the oppositions, and by the legislators of the people. And the Basque Country has also shown the legislative power by presenting eight such laws as the legislative. And as I have mentioned them, I should like to know what is going on with the law of a worthy death under the presidency of the Jestric Party, and when the time was completed in the 15th of December, the time of correction was over, why, at this moment, ponciferation is not formed. And we'd like to know what the American People are doing with the Popular Party after they've been left eight months in the hands of the Juridic Services. The only thing I mean by this is, that the work of the house is not only in opposition groups, but in all; In the government, in the group of oppositions and also in the hands of EAJ. The laws which have been admitted to come either on the side of the people or on the side of the people, have, in truth, had a greater reputation than those which have been represented by the Government. The Basque Country has both had the inevitable participation in both of them. We supplied the Housing Act with contributions from the Social Party and helped to get it out. We've agreed with the law against the Facling brought by the people and the most social clause. Even if others have kept this last one, they've emptied it. On the other hand, we think it difficult not to admit the legislative of the people of the EAJk pensions. Now they say that the Jest Party of the Eucanians has made a suggestion about pensions, but here you have rejected a local legislator brought by the pensioners. And this is especially serious for us, for example, that they have in Navarre a law of social clauses, and even a law of the pensions allowed to tramit. Here, on the other hand, a propaganda, which I don't know about pensions, but an initiative which the pensioners brought in this Chamber, entirely absorbed in the role of the Constitutional Court. But I mean now that we are prepared to work in the laws which seem necessary to the EAJ and to the Government. That's what we're doing with the city law. We've already advanced something. And we must also say, that in cynic laws such as the law of commerce or in boxes, you will not find the support of the Basque Country; nor in the law of commerce, in that law of firemen who seek to destroy the little trade, nor in that law of fire-service. Progress laws are necessary laws which have been encouraged by the Basque People, and which will be the same again. So we believe that the rush and anxiety must be rejected. It is evident that the law has not hitherto been properly taken advantage of, that the government has not shown the power, or the faculty of legislation, and it will be difficult for us to do what has not been done for three years. But we think there's time. The political calculation must be left aside, and the transition to the laws must now escape from parties of interest, in which we are about to enter the election campaign. I repeat, there is time, and the Basque People will, as hitherto, work to get as far as possible through that interval of time. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u80	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. I will start by saying that this government is apparently suspended by almost all of you, but it is the citizenship that does not suspend you, Mrs Garrido. We are faced with an initiative of which I can only have an absolutely negative assessment. It is an initiative carried out in terms of political-partisan confrontation, in line with the political action of the Government of the State, which demonstrates the inability of the People's Party to carry out policies in terms of collaboration and agreement and to contribute positively. This also applies to the compromise they have signed, which has greatly worsened the Socialist Party's amendment. Criticism of the Government is not only legitimate, but also consistent with political action and control of the Government by the House groups. What is not acceptable is the lack of rigour and ignorance shown by the proposer. Let us see why this statement is made. The proposer tells us that only five of the 29 bills in the Government's legislative calendar have been passed, removing budgets and extra payments. It mixes the Government's legislative initiative with the number of laws passed, suggesting that only five bills have been passed by the Government, when the Governing Council has actually adopted 22 of the 29 drafts in that calendar and the rest are in the process. This appears in the proposal. It confuses the adoption of the draft laws, i.e. the legislative initiative of the Government, with the adoption of the laws by Parliament. That is why there are only five, instead of the 22 bills actually passed, which are what corresponds to the legislative initiative of the Government and which calls for priority in its motion. There's all the confusion. The reality is that there are 22 bills passed by the Governing Council; therefore, Mrs. Garrido, do not mix the legislative initiative with adopted laws. Second. He urged the Government to speed up the referral of pending bills, thus giving priority to legislative action. It should be known that the adoption of draft laws entails a procedure approved by the law of this Parliament; therefore, the request for promptness makes no sense, since the drafts are sent when they are approved in accordance with the legally established procedure. All projects pending referral are immersed in this procedure, and it will be when the procedure ends when they are referred. Hence the timeless request made both in the motion and now in the transaction. At this point I would like to make a couple of reflections, Mrs Garrido. Here there are no decrees laws that the People's Party likes so much and that would allow the above-mentioned procedure to be missed. Ours is a democratic and participatory procedure. Another difference between the way the People's Party acts and ours is that we seek consensus that ensures the permanence of laws and that they do not change in any hurry when the relationship of parliamentary forces changes, as happens in the case of the PP (for example, the Lomce), although this leads, indeed, in some cases to extend the deadlines for the initiation of the approval procedure. We also take care, unlike you, of legal certainty and do not pursue a legislative activity measured in quantitative terms (laws by weight, but of low quality), so that then the courts say, for example, that the use of decrees laws is not justified, as is the case with many of those approved by the People's Party. On the other hand, it is clear that, if they request the referral of pending draft laws from the timetable, it is because they consider that there is sufficient time for their adoption, something with which we fully agree, especially in the case of those already adopted and referred. There are no grounds for delay so that they cannot be approved. If you really are concerned about legislative action, put the emphasis and effort on the adoption of the 15 projects already submitted, because what is not to be understood is that a proposal should be made calling for speed in the transmission of bills that you consider will not be adopted later. I hope that you can explain this a little bit better after what you said today, because, if not, the assessment we can make of this proposal is not the one I did at the beginning, but still much worse. This shows, Mrs Garrido, an absolute lack of knowledge of what the executive power is, since it says: "and thus gives priority to legislative action, in the face of other sterile debates that do not represent the interests of Basque citizens". The executive branch has other key functions as important as legislative initiative. The Government, like Parliament, has the role of legislative initiative, and, just as Parliament has the exclusive role of passing laws, the Government is the executive, and its governmental action is that which justifies, for example, the role of control of this Parliament, something which at this point you should be clear about. To shed some light on this and without any encouragement to explain what the action of governing is, I will give you some clues that can help you understand the separation of powers in a democratic rule of law, something that I understand will make it a little difficult for you, given the performance of the People's Party these years in the Government of Spain and in the legislative chambers. I'm going to the clues. The 629 initiatives and 14 strategic plans contained in the government programme are being developed. As it cannot be otherwise, in this process I cannot delve into each of them, but at least I will quote them to see what part of the government action is. Peace and Co-existence Plan, Health Plan, VI Equality Plan, Employment Plan, Internationalization Plan, Industrialization Plan, Public Innovation Plan, Euskera Strategic Agenda, Public Security Plan, Basque Vocational Training Plan, IV Environmental Framework Programme, Science, Technology and Innovation Plan, University Plan, Strategic Social Services Plan, with 629 initiatives. Is this passive in political action, as you say in the transaction? I don't think they understand the concept of rule. I understand that, between your confusion about the basic concepts that I have pointed out to you and your obsession with simplifying all government action to the laws adopted in this Parliament so far, I propose such a negative and groundless initiative that, instead of contributing, it seeks to subtract, in pure partisan key. At a time when the Socialist Party, Mr Pastor, in its amendment urges the Government to point out the bills it considers to be a priority. I would say to you that the Government considers all the important laws, but if you want concrete action, there are 15 projects that have been submitted and are in the process of being implemented in this Parliament. So, if you want, you already have material where to take it and where to work. Having said that, I do not understand why, unless you are announcing in advance that a certain number of bills will be vetoed, as Mrs Garrido has done. Mrs Garrido has already said – Mr Maneiro too – that they will not be approved. You've questioned, in principle. I hope that we will clarify this throughout these speeches, because, if they are not going to be able to approve or follow what they are, why do they ask for the pending projects to be sent quickly? I do not know what this makes sense in a positive contribution to legislative action, with a country vision that this Parliament has to have when it comes to passing laws and prioritising what are the most important laws. I didn't understand, honestly. I hope you will explain it to me in the next speech. There is one thing that is absolutely objective, and it is the fact that there is more than enough time to be able to approve all the draft timetables, as Mrs Garrido and Mr Maneiro both acknowledged in their initial proposal, although they have taken a turn today, I suppose influenced by the amendment you have made. But it is not only a matter of the opinion of the groups, but I will give them some data that will make it meridianly clear. I'm going to refer to the actual data from the previous legislature, when I was ruling the Socialist Party. Deadline for passing the laws in this Parliament in the previous legislature: three laws were passed within four months of their entry, two in five months from their entry, four in six months from their entry, two in seven months from their entry, two in eight months, four in nine months – all since entry – one in 10 months, two in 11 months, one in 12 months; I do not include budgets. If we refer to some of the laws in the Spanish Parliament, they have come to pass in four months by the two Houses, so that the data remains. Therefore, it is not possible to claim lack of time. In conclusion, I offer all groups our efforts and collaboration to pass the bills, both those already submitted, many of which by the end of the term of office will have entered this Parliament with deadlines exceeding the year and a half and two years, and the one less than 10 months... In any event, those who are to be referred shall also have at least seven months. These are, today, the forecasts that we can make on an objective basis. Honek was a god Bilduk epei buruz egindako gallerari. In any case, there are 15 bills referred to this House and, therefore, there is where to work, without any need for prioritization, because, if it is for time, there is plenty of time to approve them all. In conclusion, what will you choose? concert or veta? I'm grateful for meeting her with her offer to work and to test her laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u81	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Passing on the answers, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u82	I understand that the initiative did not like the Basque Nationalist Party and this government, because the initiative reflects what has been the legislative action of this government. I read and brought back here today what Mr. Enrique Lucas Murillo said: "A demonstration of the political importance of the government's legislative initiative is that it serves as a reference for measuring the capacity of a government and its ability, and the calculation of laws adopted each year is, therefore, a usual index for evaluating government management. So when no bills are presented with the pace or intensity demanded by the political groups represented in Parliament, or their content lacks political or social relevance, it is concluded that the government, and not the opposition, "does not fulfil its mission. The government's legislative initiative thus acquires a fundamental significance." Therefore, do not try to entangle us in this House when the facts are foolish, they are blunt, they are indisputable and they bring this government to the fore. Five out of 29. There were 29 bills in the legislative calendar, and this Government has submitted a number of more bills, which are still in the process. But approved have been five. Draft laws adopted in total, yes, nine. The four, the ones I told you: the one with the extra pay and the three with the budget. But of those who came in that legislative calendar are five out of 29. And, according to the information that you have sent to this Parliament, there are still 11 unbred, 11 that have not yet arrived. You say there's a lot of time left. I don't know how he measures time in Parliament. Mr Erkoreka tells us that it takes the Government a year to draft a bill, with all the means the Government has (resources, instruments...). It takes a year. And what do you want? That here, in the Basque Parliament, the parliamentary groups should be seen and not seen with the bills that you refer us to? Man, I think this House deserves a little more seriousness, and at least the citizens we represent. I mean, the government has to have enough time, but the groups in this House, to work, we have to make almost seen and not seen with the bills that this government sends us. Not yet remitted, 11; nine, remitted in the last year. Nine of those who have been referred have been referred in the past year, and what Mr. Erkoreka was telling us again... I am sorry, if I had been answered by the Lehendakari, I would have referred to the Lehendakari more in this speech, who is, by the way, the most responsible of the Basque Government and is the one who committed himself, in addition, to the referral of the 29 bills. The facts are what they are. The facts are that you have not done your duties, that you have been doing other things, thinking other things. And many plans, tells me many plans. If we have had to adopt two concrete initiatives at the last sitting in this Basque Parliament to urge you, following a plan approved in this Parliament, two concrete initiatives to urge you to forward two strategies that you had not been able to bring to this House; two important social issues, such as the strategy for the homeless and the strategy for social inclusion! But what are you telling me about plans? Propaganda and pure propaganda, which remains on the paper, which you are then unable to put into practice, and which this Parliament sitting after sitting has to remind you of. So, less balls out, less escapism. You take responsibility. It is that other Governments have assumed their responsibility. I know that the Government of Spain, and it seems that now that it has been presided over by the Government of Mariano Rajoy, gives them a lot of allergy, but they copy something positive from the Government of Spain. At least ask them to see how the bills do and how the laws are passed. Ask them. But 240. You, five; five of the 29. In short, escapism, balloons outside, to cover up their own shortcomings and not to assume their own responsibility, which in this matter is theirs, that of the Government and that of the party that supports the Government. The Government, because it has forwarded the bills as it has sent them, late and bad, and even some have had to withdraw it because it was absolutely infumable. And then the group that supports the Government will also have some responsibility, which is 27, to seek the appropriate consensus. In short, today an ear-drop to this government in this agreement that I hope will come forward – I want to thank all the groups that are going to vote in favour of it – and that makes very clear the failure to comply with the commitments of this government and the absolute abandonment of their responsibility in government action, manifested in legislative production, which is solely for this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u83	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u84	Thank you very much, President. Mr Arieta says that it is an initiative that must receive a negative assessment from the Basque Nationalist group, and I understand that from the government, and that it has been presented in terms of political confrontation. No, what we do is our work, the work we have as political groups in this Parliament, the work of controlling the Government, what it is committed to and what it is fulfilling, and it is clear that the Government has clearly failed to comply with the legislative timetable. And to accuse us of a lack of rigour is a spur that can only be starred by Mr Arieta. He's talking about a lack of rigour. Man, lack of rigor his, and also with high doses of prepotence and various manipulations. Non-compliance is evident. We have explained the reasons behind this argument and these facts. It's obvious. We are talking about the submission of bills by the Basque Government out of time, out of the committed deadline, i.e. late. We are talking about other bills that have not been submitted, and as a result of which they have not been submitted, they will not be adopted. And we are also talking about bills that have finally been withdrawn by the Basque Government. This is undeniable. And the Basque Government is also responsible for the failure to approve these bills submitted by this Government, since it is responsible for seeking, on a prior basis, complicity between the different political groups and for reaching agreements. If he does not achieve these complicitys and does not achieve sufficient agreements, he shows that he is in a minority, and therefore fails to comply with the legislative timetable itself. But we do not confuse the work of the Basque Government with the work of the Basque Parliament. We distinguish him perfectly. I, at least, distinguish them: one thing is the work of the Basque Government and another is the work of this Parliament. But we have mainly talked about the work not done by this Government. In addition, Mr Arieta, making excuses, recalls the procedure to be followed by each bill before it is approved by the Governing Council and before it is forwarded to the House. Obviously, there is a procedure that must be respected, but this procedure was already known to the Basque Government when it decided to draw up that legislative timetable. It is therefore clear that this legislative timetable is not being complied with. I have given you data: five bills that have been passed by this Parliament. But I didn't just say that. I have said that most of the bills have been submitted out of time, late, well out of time; in some cases, months after the commitment made; in some cases, even more than a year. And that is the exclusive responsibility of the Basque Government. In addition, the law on public administrations was withdrawn and the Basque employment law has been deleted from the legislative timetable. The general environmental protection law of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has also been withdrawn. Nor has the contribution law been introduced. This is not the responsibility of the Basque Parliament, it is the clear responsibility of the Basque Government. Therefore, do not come here and try to deceive us, Mr Arieta, because the data are what they are. In my first speech, I have not even had enough time to appoint each of these bills and to make clear what was the Basque Government's commitment to their submission and when they were finally presented, taking into account, moreover, that some of them have not been presented. Therefore, do not manipulate, Mr Arieta, do not try to justify the unjustifiable. There has been a clear breach of the legislative timetable, no excuses. Do not accuse political groups of hindering the adoption of these bills. We are talking about the responsibility of the Basque Government, and it is clear that this responsibility exists. We have also said that the amendment to the Historical Territories Act has not been approved. We do not yet have a law on transparency, we are not going to have an employment law, the Electoral Law has not been amended as it should be. In other words, the Basque Government has done nothing to have passed these bills, which we believe are important for Basque citizens. Nor has he done anything to reform the Court of Public Accounts, nor has he done anything to reform the Ararteko Act. And some of the laws that have been passed, important all of them, have been passed as a result of political action by opposition groups, such as the Housing Act. Or as a result of the political action of society itself; for example, the Shared Custody Act. Therefore, acknowledge these facts, Mr Arieta. Do not accuse the rest of you of a lack of rigour, acknowledge the mistakes made. Obviously, they are not going to vote in favour of this transactional, but it is a transactional that has all the rigour of the world and that what it is ultimately about is to show that this Government has clearly failed to comply with the legislative timetable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u85	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u86	Thank you, President. In conclusion, I would first like to thank Mr Arieta for the tone of his speech (at least today he has not insulted anyone). And it has made one thing very clear to us with the description of the activity of the other government, that the other government, that of Patxi López, the previous one to you, was prolific in the legislative activity. Thirty-four laws were passed as of the date of the call for elections and 13 remained in the process, almost all of them because of obstruction by their parliamentary group, that of the Basque Nationalist Party. That's the reality. And this initiative doesn't come looking to put a finger in the eye of the government. We are simply describing a reality, and we are also doing so constructively. We are saying to you: "Please hurry and tell us, please, which ones you have, in your opinion – we also leave it to you – are more important to the citizenry." Because it is true, Mr Arieta, all laws are important, but not all have the same transcendence. There are some that affect very important groups of citizens and others that are merely technical and that do not have the same degree of affection. All we ask you to do is tell us what you understand that are most important for the action of a government in order to achieve the well-being of citizens, or those issues that can solve problems that people have. It doesn't look like it's something so sloppy. I think they would also have to thank him, because he is a show, in a way, even of goodwill. Because then the legislative process is in many hands, not just those of the opposition. You have 27 parliamentarians, who have, among other things, the obligation to support the Government by seeking the necessary consensus to support the laws. Of course, you have to know how to work them. The Socialist Group, if the law suits you, comes from whoever comes, will do everything possible to get it through. Now, I'm also telling you, if we don't like it because it looks really bad, we're not going to approve it, unless it changes. But that, here and in every Parliament that is valued. I am going to give you a reading of some outstanding things which I believe are all within your competence: the opinion of the panel of duplicities, the law of the public sector, the law of transparency, the law of foundations, the law of management of legal services, the law of public employment, the municipal law, the law of emergencies, the law of fire-extinguishing services. You move! Put in place things that are standing still, for which they are not called, no papers or commissions are gathered, which are not substantiated in the appearances. Because that is also a way of speeding up the work and of ensuring that the legislative action of the Government is reflected in the Basque House. But don't ask us to do just what is right for the government, that when a law comes to it politically, we all have to put on a horse's fingernail to say amen, amen to which you bring, whether we like it or not, and the one for which you don't have much interest put it in a drawer because you are approaching the elections or paralyzing it as if it were in a freezer. I mean, the demands are made for everyone, and here every stick has to endure its candle, and you yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u87	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. From EH Collect, Mr. Urruzuno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u88	Yeah. "Equal or veto," said Mr. Arieta, "and we call it partnership." And we believe that the activity we have hitherto shown shows that. The Basque Country has been indispensable to the most important laws which have been made in this law, in our opinion, against the housing and the franchise. But we must also understand, that the making or accepting of laws is not a purpose in this respect. It's more important than a law. It may be the purpose of making as many laws as possible for the government to present it. The Basque Country will not act like that. I've already said that we have something advanced in the municipal law. For us, the law of council is indispensable, and it is necessary, whether in this law or no, to draw it out. But, I repeat, more important than a municipal law is to advance a good city law. And there is a fundamental aspect for us, a fundamental aspect, of the finance of the municipal laws. How are we supposed to make a law that local institutions will secure financial Solventia? That's the discussion we're going to bribe. And we also believe that this very week, and above all, it's getting very obvious. The councils can't be the last institutions left with the surplus of the division of money. I do not know who has done wrong; I do not know what has not been foreseen by the last institutions which suffer the consequences of it. So, the fundraiser is a subject that should be successfully bribed. The councils, where these revenues are made, ought not only to have a promise, but to make a decision. We believe that these are the axes and the decisions which lie in the heart of a good municipal law. In this sense, there is an alliance, but the best law of association is to make the best of it. Mr. Pastor calls the government for a list of what's most important for him. We say, too, that all laws may be of importance to us more or less; for us the law of the township is indispensable, the education of the public employment is indispensable, that of the third sector. We are ready to work together for all of us, but knowing that the goal is not even to bring the law forward. That's all you have to say. And I would like to announce that for us, because there is time, if will, the Basque People will be brought together in this interval by two other laws. One will be about pensions, and the other, to oppose the extreme poverty. And we hope to find the Basque People in the rest of the world as one of the rest of the teams. That's all. And as for Popular groups, socialists, and the middle term signed by UPyD, apart from certain shades, it must be said that we agree generally. So he's gonna have a vote for us. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u89	Thank you, Mr. Uruzuno. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña, your word is yours. MARI-REERBERTY, Mr. IBARERAL: Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Uruzuno, you said you'd vote for the vote. At least you've made it clear that you're not on the side of the eye and that you're ready to work. You tell him to get a lot of laws out of here. No, I just made it clear in the first intervention that it was the opposite. We want you to get good laws out, and I've explained how the funk does the planning of his projects. So that's the way it is, too. This, as I have already explained, sometimes delays the procedure. That's right, that's it. Mrs Garrido, I am sorry, but you do not understand the difference between legislative initiative and legislation, and what is left to the Government and Parliament. I guess so much time from the People's Party doing, as I said before, decrees laws passing through the House and all this sort of stuff, because it prevents you from being able to understand what the formula is. I'm sorry, I can't solve that. We are told that the proposition they have brought is not a bad proposition, which is a good proposition. But if you, with the proposal you have brought, all you are saying is that you do not want laws to be passed! It's not brought in to pass more laws, it's brought in to pass fewer laws. And you're already advancing that you veto a series of laws based on assumed deadlines that you don't give, when none of you have been able to beat me up even one of the data I've given. I have explained the time frame within which the laws were passed in this Parliament and the time frame within which they can be passed, and what time limits remain. I have said that some are here at least 10 months, others more than a year and a half and others more than two years to approve. If that's not enough time, we'll see. Mr. Pastor, I think you've distorted some of the data you've given. You in the previous legislature, in June, when you had already decided to dissolve Parliament, submitted six bills. I suppose they would have intended to approve them, even in the Standing Committee, and I say this because they presented a seventh directly to the Standing Committee. Therefore, I want to believe that when these initiatives are brought in and we are talking about the government's poor ability... I don't know if it says aptitude or attitude, if it differs well, because, in another case, I don't remember insulting anyone, but that could be an insult. Having said that, the point here, Mr Pastor, is that you have today signed a compromise which says that more projects should be brought in. On the other hand, they're telling us, "We're going to veto a series of laws now even if it takes time"... [[Berber]] That's true, because Mrs. Garrido said they're not going to approve, literally. (Berbotsa) This is a transaction they have signed between the three parties.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u90	Mr. Pastor, mesez, isiltasuna. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: And you said there won't be time to approve them all. I gave him some data. With this data in hand... And someone said, "I don't know what deadlines they're running." Well, the deadlines I'm running are the same as the ones everyone's been running all the time here, that is, until the end of the legislature. Those are the only deadlines that are worth today. And with those deadlines, that's enough. Therefore, if you want to justify a veto on certain laws on the grounds that there is no time to pass, it is not true, it is false. Therefore, I say again, replant what you are saying, replant whether or not you are putting a veto, say whether or not you are going to work or not you are going to work with absolute loyalty and with the work of everyone – my group the first – to try to draw the law or not. That is the first question. And the second question. Not only do I reaffirm that this has been a bad initiative, but it has been a tremendously perverse initiative, as we are seeing, that it has sought to get a veto based on a series of arguments that are not real, and that it has come in exclusively political-partisan code, not in terms of being able to pass more laws, as we are seeing blatantly; just the opposite. I therefore believe that the matter is quite clear. As for the way in which we understand politics, Mrs Garrido, I will give you just a little bit of the difference between you and us. You the other day, on a radio program, when you were analyzing the ministries you had asked for We can the Socialist Party, you, instead of referring to the ministries in terms of going to work, of political responsibility, of being able to implement the policies with which we present ourselves before the citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u91	Amaitzen joan, Arieta-Araunabena jauna. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Do you know how you always referred to those ministries? At all times? Like armchairs. And he repeated it as many times as you usually do when you think something bothers you to repeat it, that is, continuously. For you the ministries are armchairs. Not for us. The executive is to rule, to do a job well done. And also laws, laws that want to endure, laws that want consensus and laws that want legal certainty. Then we could go also, law by law, both to the municipal processing and to any other...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u92	Eskerrik asko, Arieta-Araunajauna. ARIETA-ARAUNABEÑA IBARZABAL jaunak: Mr Pastor, whenever you want this debate, wherever you want and in whatever format you want. On municipal law and the Housing Act, either of them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ariat-Aunabeña. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the entire Euskal populars, Misto-UPyD and the middle-direction signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 71; the votes are 72; the supporters 45; the opponents are 27; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u94	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. I interrupt the whole meeting until four o'clock. It was two and twenty-four in the afternoon. The meeting began again at four o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u95	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll go back to the whole meeting. Five point in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by the members of the House of the Isasasi Balanzai, the parliamentary members of the Araba, Biscai, and Gipuzian, to be able to treat of the legal security of the former. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Isas, it's yours to introduce and get rid of the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u96	Mrs. President of the legislature, members of the legislature, good afternoon. The motion we bring today is the result of the interpelration. All those who care for the Basques are concerned with the state of language, and the language begins with the steps of the subjugation, following Euscalidia and the members of the euccatatists and teams. So what from now on? And then he wrote the report, the Step Leader of the Language, the Euscaldi, the Euscalian, has just planned the challenges to continue to live in the Euskara, or the foundorium published the mina long ago and learned substantial report. Three examples, and all three of them, on the same basis. The Euskar normalization process has lost its strength, has slowed down speed of recovery, impasse - we're in a state, there's a risk of turning back. Hues, we all agree that the use of euphora is poor, and that something must be done to encourage and strengthen the process of normalization of language. There's a discussion in the street. The discussion spreads in the different sectors of society and the worry prevails. For instance, the Step Leader of the Language has written: "In the process of reviving Europe, in the course of well-doings, by correcting what is to be corrected, and adapting the changes of society to the new and necessary demands, we must go on to the normalization of the eucalyptic, namely, to the age of the euphora." On the other hand, you have just written in the paper the news demands of the language, not of the authorities, when it is observed that the supreme authorities do most of their youth. The Lujanbium of the Mailians, the Basque Radio, spreads his thoughts and worries about how culture and eucharism are practiced by public media. Now, as you know most of the members of the legislature, he is a writer of Aranbar, and one of the most thinkers and orators of Mail's Lujanbius, both of them, and both of them of the speakers of the eucalyptus. For the Basques, the newly finished Spanish State law has been severe. The representatives of the Government of the kingdom have been strictly speaking in Aran, Bizana, Gipulia, and Navarro, against the eroscal and language of the townships. Hundreds of charges have been made to prevent the recovery process in the courts. Luckily, they lost most of them, but the damage they did was not settled. The making of appeals, charges, prohibitions, and, in general, the use of resistance in courts of justice makes it evident that there is no legal protection or legal protection to be able to act on the defensive. On the other hand, as far as the revolution of our language is concerned, the legislation which is about to end in this legislature has not been very beneficial. According to the data known to us, the copyright conversions of language have not been lowered at this time, the use of the support has not been more significantly improved and the budgets of language policy have been reduced, though relatively limited. The publicity campaigns of the little bird in white engineering can't cover the lack of language abnormalization process. If the redness of the Euquera attracts the eggs of the cuckoo to the bee, the young will crawl out of the nest, for the language state is the direct consequence of the policy of language which is established. We're worried about the law, too. We conclude that there is no legal or legal guarantees necessary to maintain, in general, and especially in the establishments of action. The Basque People are supposed to be collected in the legality of language. We have defects and deficiencies. There are laws and regulations which in the kingdom of Spain protect the use of the Basque. For example, the expression of Barcelona, 1996, the language of the Unesco, or the law of the Juridical Administration of the People, and of the Election of Administration in the Common-wealth, the Institution of the City Country, and the Rule of the High-wealths, the Institutions of Places, and the Rule of the Institutions, and others. It is paradoxical, but international or state legislation more efficiently regulates the use of diminished language than the laws of autonomy. A faint language, such as euphoria, requires clear and efficient laws to prevent the asmetricism of languages. Euskar's normalization process requires a new general law. Euskar Standardization 1968. he set out for the year, he used to go. During the course of dictatorship, Euscatindia and Escaltians succeeded in agreeing to the fundamental standard for the union of the Basque Sea, a difficult and harsh task. Thus, before autonomy had started, the eucalyptus began. It was fun that found the process of the standard language. Ever since that time the process of normalization of euphoria has been a process of living, variable, and contradictory. 20th until the sixtyth of the generation, in the event of a life of loss, the event occurred: the eucalyptus divided itself into eleven eucalyptuses, without writing grammar, without language of school and standard standards, and the eucalyptus was scarcely able to subsist in the confined fields of farmers and fishermen. In the throge ten o'clock the rapid recovery process of the eucalyptus began. By the time the autonomy and forum-prejudication was established, the process was rapid. Thus, during the first law of this legislature, between 1980-84, 60 members of the legislature were elected: 25. The Euctado Trial; 11. The Union of the People; 9, PSE-PSOE; 6, Eucharistic Left; 6, UCD; 2, Aeanza Popular, 1, PCE. The fundamental law of the Basque Use, which is still at hand, was adopted in this law. This law was formally protected by the political forces EAJ, PSE-PSOE, EE, UCD, and PCE-EPK; 47 of 60 members of the legislatures (%47%) 78k) protects the law. The law was protected by the sum of political votes, 686.216 votes. That protection didn't reach 75% of the voters. In the present situation, it may be said, the degree of agreement was considerable. We have no doubt. Thirty-three years later, three of the five political forces which protected the law have disappeared: UCD, Basque left and the same time PCEPK. There remains, however, in the present parliament, the Jelt Party, and the PSE, elected 37. If we measure the selections in votes, we pass 595,000 votes on them. 53, 75). Without experimenting on the conduct of the new political powers of the present law, we may say that the present agreement might be much greater than that of that period. In this way, it's time for us to renew the First Law of Euscarization of Use. And, besides the foregoing reasons, we should mention two others: that the law has become obsolete and that it requires a higher degree of consent in order to make the next steps of the normalization process. Euskrace, that is, the official organization that deals with the Basque Language is Euscalia since 1919. The Euscalidian has issued the rules for the routine of language. Euscalindia has an official knowledge, as a royal academy in Spain, as an institution of the 1976 and the French Republic, in 1995. On the other hand, he has received a general confession from the community. For these reasons, the Euscalidian has lived the rapid course of regulating regulations, guided always by the language of the Basques, and by their updates, especially since the year 1968. That's how you can read it at Euscalpad's website. The chief care of the policy of language relates to the national administration and public institutions which occupy the territory of the eucharist; The government of Navarre and Foru Parliament, to Acjo and the parliament, and the Basque Organization of the North. The responsibility for the status of the language is responsible for those institutions that we're talking about. This law belongs, among other things, to make and update the law of language. The Euskara, the state of language, requires a new law, a general law, which has the germ of the eloquence of the euphorca, the part agreed with eulegia, the integrationr, which seeks the harmonize of the land of the euca, the harmony of information and communication, which strengthens the foundations of normalization, and gives the whole legal guarantee to the use of the less language. That's why we introduced the motion because we didn't get a proper answer in interpelation. And we summed up our motion in five points. First, To examine and update the Laws, and Rules of the Esscha. The second, especially the use of Euscara for the Ruleal use, is the weakness of the law of 1982, and the repairing and repairing of the gaps. The third, place, and autonomy, may I seek the agreement of political forces with which they represent themselves, to promote the use of the cradle. Fourthly, To enlarge the process of reflection on the institutions of eucalyptic and other social motives, to agree and realize the decisions which must be made to promote the use of the eucalyptus. And finally, to increase the budgets of the elections of the fifth, local, and autonomy, and other characters, in order to improve the rate of use for the cradle. From this point on, we have agreed with the Jeltza Party, because we think that we must obtain as much harmony as possible in language matters. Unfortunately, we have agreed with each other; I would require that half-way agreed to protect the other members of the legislature, which, in short, is often said to belong to the rest of the community, and because it belongs to all of us, we should appeal together until we were perfectly normalized. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u97	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u98	The Basque has a legal frame which has essentially been developed within the scope of the Euskal Estican Corporation. The law of Normaization of Euscaria, which the Basque Act had accepted on November 24th, 1982, was supposed to be the beginning of the legislation which has been followed through 30 years with other laws, such as the law of the Public Basque Function, or even in the matters of education. In education, we started a system of eloquent models, which enabled the number of talking euscals to increase, and which the people allowed language to be accepted. Let us also remind ourselves of the homologization of eucalyptic studies and the homologization of the eucalogies. Or change the consumers' Law to destroy fines. Or automatic translator development, etc. It is therefore obvious that the Euskera is legally recognised as a majority and that its official status does not depend on the Castilian. Unlike Mr Isasi, although he has not appointed him, the Basque is not legally defined by a subordinate official. That is why we bet on a symmetric and equitable officiality between Basque and Spanish, paraphrasing some of the ideas put forward by the Councillor of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture of the Basque Government in an inquiry by Xabier Isasi in the plenary session of 13 November 2015. It is true that despite the social point of view, and the efforts of the Administration and the citizen, it remains a language that speaks but little about the eucalyptus, which ought to be the basis which the language policy of this country should suggest, all of us, patriotic or not, should be shared. The question of Euscaria is, in any case, the problem of the treatment of the minority of a democratic society. The community of those who know the Basque community has a right to be impressed, in order to lead positive discrimination to practice with this community, and to provide with a minimum of resources, in order to maintain its language confidence. I think this principle can be shared by the majority of us who represent euscal society. And, on the other hand, the extension of the Basque language is a good and certainly deserves to devote resources to it, because it greatly improves the social cohesion of the country and consequently removes the danger of the emergence of stagnant and confronted communities. The Socialist Party has appeared in favor of spreading the legal frame that supports the support and support of the support of it, and has worked for it. Yes, when he ruled with other sects at different times, and when he was in the Government, the Language of the Moons being also under his command. And he's always defended it. Because our interest is in making things easier for citizens in relation to Basque, and always bearing in mind that the freedom to use Basque must scrupulously respect existing legislation. From this framework, the freedom to use the language, the rights of one must be developed in a scrupulous respect for another and in a political balance. We do not detect anywhere any situation of repression, whether widespread or not, of the use of euskara. This scenario that draws the initiative of EH Bildu is out of reality, it falls into a drama that has no reason to be. It is true that the use of support is indispensable to public administration, considering the occupations of workers who know its support, and defined by the scope of activity connected with this language. We must give priority to language movement so that workers can use it in their activity areas. We must explain what it is that can benefit the cradle, though few, and, parallelly, the attachment of workers and politicians, constantly excite and nourish different resources, and so on. Language's abnormalization has acquired the most extensive legal protection that ever was, and has always been supported by it. More resources have been pursued than ever. These are not my conclusions, but those of the Euskara Advisory Council on the basis for the linguistic policy of the beginning of the twenty-first century, adopted at the beginning of 2009, which I believe is essential to remind them and to reintroduce them into the debate that EH Bildu proposes with his initiative. But, in turn, we must make it clear that linguistic normalization cannot be talked about without freedom and individual responsibility. And although many are afraid to leave the linguistic choice in the hands of individual responsibility or choice, I believe it is precisely the opposite: there is no normalization without democracy, and democracy means that all rights must be respected, then also linguistic rights must be respected. Any language policy, in our case in the Basque Country, must bear in mind that, if you want to get the part of the Spanish-speaking population to take an interest in the Basque language and make it theirs, the first thing you have to do is to value and respect the mother tongue of those citizens, and from there start to raise the issues they want. When we speak of the rights of language, we do not speak of the rights of language, as patriotism does. On the contrary, we speak of the rights of the citizens to language. The problem is to attribute to the languages traits that do not correspond to them as such, but to the speakers of them. Any linguistic policy – I keep recalling the conclusions of the Euskara 21 reflection process – is doomed to failure if it does not take into account that, in the end, the use of euskera rests on the spontaneous will of the speaker, a will that no one wants to obviate. Support should be given to those who wish to express themselves in Basque, and sometimes even to a large extent, but respect should be given to those who, even by mastering Basque, choose to use another language. Linguistic policy must be based on flexibility and progressiveness. It must be flexible, weighted, so that it is not perceived as aggression, and always inclusive. I repeat: we ought always to have this document at hand when we are about to discuss the normalisation of the eucalyptic use, which is no matter what political attitude it is. It's a receipt of consent, like the Basque Law, and the consent must continue. Obviously, the abertzale left did not approve either of the two documents and will always want to go 20 steps ahead of others, trying to impose without convincing. And they'll pull out the cart and try to get the rest of them, as is the case. I'm going to finish. Though the impossibility of attaining a purpose may be painful, or not to fulfil a wish, as is the case with the normalization of the euphorum, I must say, that it is impossible for us to assert that there is no political liberty in this case, why political liberty should be put into the hands of other men, and this intention ought not to be what we desire. We don't think the law should be changed. We believe that with the laws we have that the way to the rescue is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u99	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Eubertarians represent the team. My dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u100	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. It is well known that the Autonomy of Euscamy Autonomy established the officialship of the Basque Sea in 1979, and that the Euscaria Act was made in 1982. And, as has been said here in the legislature, EAJ, the left of the Basques, UCDs, and PSE admitted it, and the Popular party gave abstration, and the people were not present, and did not come to the law at that time. So for us, apart from the quantum majority, the quantum was also accepted. It can't be denied that the Basque Law has been effective in the process of reforming the language. He has an immense harmony in society, and has served to promote the policy of language to-day, and we believe that he has the power to remain effective in the future. As to the principles which the law has, it can hardly be done better, because, in our opinion, it has very democratic principles. To learn to support all the citizens, he recognizes the right of using them, and is based on the rights of individuals. Those who made the law had an enormous vision, as we have sometimes observed. That he's out of luck on some sides? It may happen, but at least it hasn't gotten old in the principles. Gather them together against the laws of the eucaia which began 30 years ago, and now you have come to this law. You've been having a lot of trouble because you've always been very critical. You were in another strategy, and I'd say you're still keeping the original political position. But our tendency to live also affects you, and then you're making shifts for change. We do not say that the law should not be changed some day. But laws are instruments, and are tools for obtaining particular ends. And you think that the law ought to be changed. Since the Basque Act was accepted, it jumped big and we're better than 30 years ago. It may occur to be at a certain point of infusion, that is. He's saying that people, experts, etc., are supposed to study the strategy of jumping for use, and that's what fun is doing. And we've agreed to the medium, and it's a joy, clear and clear. We don't understand why socialists didn't come into our middle-class town. You don't approve of our medium, because you're willing to play on both subjects. But if the legislation of the state protects the action of a single word, why should we reduce it? If we're on the Basque side, why should we reduce that opportunity? And all the things you've been talking about, we don't doubt them in the middle. Then we don't understand why Socialists don't consent or why they didn't come to us. Just to think. However, we disagree with the various assertions you make that he wrote to her in the other original proposition. You're saying that I don't want to solve the problem you put in. That's not true. You're telling me otherwise, not to tell me you're lying. Why do you find out? You've found out. If anyone, Urquijo, or somebody else, puts a complaint in the courts, that doesn't mean he has a right. And the Urquijo passion, all judicial, has to be reported, and we've reported it, and it's just fun. And you know that, too, because you talk a lot more than I do. The sensations are getting away from you and you know that. Another thing would be if Urquijo were right. Then the gathering would be right, but it's happening just the opposite. In spite of his departure at the Mendexan and Lecation, he was opposed to other municipalities. And besides, in the case of Iru, Urquijo recited his sentence against Urquijo. So the reality we have is that. You look like you've got a headline, "la ley del eeské no high Jurídica," and that's what you're doing. Then you say, "Jailing won't do," but you've been doing a part of it from the very beginning of the Eusk0, and the departments of the Reforming and Patxi Bazkers have also said that. On the one hand, then, the Law was filed with a report of legality. That's what got into the councils. It didn't agree with that, and he sent it to court service and ordered it to be filed with a report of legality. He also sent to all the councils to defend him against Urquijo's accusations. And Hakoba is there. Hakoba is the subordination of the popular administrations of politics and Hakoba took over him and sent him to the councils. So the councils have used this report of legality to defend themselves against Urquijo's accusations. It's published a lot of articles. I'm not listing them. Besides, some articles have been included in the municipal law business, in order not to be misinterpreted. And in all of those cases, all those trials, it's been a part-class piece of shit. So, when you say 'Jaers don't want', you don't really mean it. I don't know if you're dealing with ideological prejudices or what you're doing. As I said, you're delegating the Basque Act all these years and now you have to change it. But why should a law be changed? Because he's old? If we could see it, or it would be fun to see it, there's a law-based language initiative in those articles, we'd propose to change it. You may mention the article "Radio-Television Española," but it wasn't really Euscalal television, the Euscarese Act enabled the television set. I'll ask you a question. Is that what caused the Euscal Television to develop? You say the internet didn't exist, you have to adapt to the digital age. But did this prevent any initiative in promoting the ICT to resist? It's just the opposite. You know, it's just, you know, I've been trying to get you some kind of scholarship for 15 years. And besides, PNV proposed to examine the legislation on the special part of the Basque Council, whether there was any inconvenience in the enterprise of the eucalyptus. And the experts said no. The only case was given, and the law of the jurisdiction was this. The law of the jurisdiction does not allow the judges to establish a language treaty. But that's reported by the European cards. And this is not the subject of the Basque Law, which is the subject of the Congress of Spain and the Senate. So, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, A Corpus has also been created. The law of the Public Basque Act, the law of the Full-life learning, the municipal law, has been systematically introduced in all. For us, the Basque Law is like a frame of law. And the frames of laws have what is called "dealus legsistivo," and the frame of law does not change. Out of date? We must see whether this law is efficient or not. First, it must be proved that it is not efficient for the purpose that arose. That's all. Anyway, thank you so much for getting us a half-way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. He won't say a word. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u102	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Mr Isasi, an unnecessary approach to the motion. Why? Repetitive and obsessive. What you ask for in the motion is guaranteed, is generalized politically and is developing at cruising speed in this legislature, with the application of what? Of many public resources, of many decrees, of many grants, of many agencies, of many plans, of many agendas, of strategies, of assessments, of memories, of legal reports... Some have been shown here and we have seen them in many parliamentary initiatives. Even with a full monograph that you proposed just over a year ago and that in theory you should have fulfilled your aspirations: debate on political activity in the field of normalization of the use of Basque. Here we use a session in the Committee on Culture and Linguistic Policy for a pretence. What's going on? Was she dissatisfied? Mr. Isasi, with the earring donkey. Everything you request is being done and is being guaranteed. Sometimes, by duplicating and tripled; some of the policies in relation to linguistic policy and duplicity should be analysed. In any case, it's guaranteed, it's generalized. And, of course, the law on the normalization of the use of the Euskera is complied with, and it is also normally complied with by the delegate, by the delegation of the Government. You and Mrs Mendizabal read Article 8 of Law 10/1982 on the Standardization of the Use of Euskera. Is it so serious that Mr Urquijo calls for compliance with the current Basque law? I'll read it to you. They are official documents; in this case, the minutes. Article 8 of Law 10/1982, Basic Law on the Standardization of the Use of the Basque Country, states: "Any normative provision or official resolution emanating from the public authorities located in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country shall be drawn up in bilingual form" for the purpose of official advertising. Two: "Any act involving public authorities located in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, as well as notifications, administrative communications, shall be drawn up in bilingual form, unless private parties expressly choose to use one of the official languages of the Autonomous Community". Neither the Government delegation nor the municipalities are private stakeholders; they are public institutions. In that sense, what Mr Urquijo is doing – and it seems a lie that you criticize him – is to comply scrupulously with Law 10/1982. Mr Isasi, one of the most important advisers in this Parliament is Mr Baztarrika, the Language Policy Adviser. And it also appears abundantly and with lengthy parliamentary interventions: with strategies, with plans, with evaluations, with presentation of actions, with grants, of those legal reports to which one referred earlier. Lately, 19 appearances, some at your request. Mr. Isasi, where do we draw more money from? From the GIR? Home health care? Of employment programmes? Where else? The monographic debate raised the number of actions that existed in relation to the development of existing legislation, in relation to the use of euskera and the enforcement of the said law. The impetus for the use of euskera, from our point of view, is part of all the priorities of the current government plans – I have already told you about the appearances of Mr Baztarrika – and of the outlaws and the municipal ones. If we see him and know him! If there's no more to see what those plans are! If they're on the websites of all those institutions! You, Mr Isasi, are trying to draw permanently an apocalyptic panorama, an unreal panorama. All you want is to push and suffocate a society that wants to move in civic freedom and also in linguistic freedom. I used to tell you about Mr. Baztarrika. It is that we have talked here and discussed qualitative examinations of linguistic profiles, the evaluation of the Plan of Standardization of the Use of Euskera 2008-2012, the Plan of Action for the Promotion of Euskera, the fifth period of planning of public administrations in institutions of the Basque Autonomous Community, the General Plan 2013-2017, the Basque Plan of Statistics and Basque, the monographic debate of standardization of Basque that you raised in 2014, the statistics on the resources and budgets of Basque, the Elebide memory 2013, the Strategic Agenda of the Euskera 2014, the subsidies to Basque, the linguistic rights of Basque consumers, the theme of the proceedings, the theme of the Elebide memory 2014... We have talked about the euskera in Osakidetza countless times, in Education, in Justice. We did. And besides, budgets are increasing year after year for that effort, we are seeing it. 2016, plus EUR 46 million to promote Basque, in grants. The strategic agenda 2013-2016, with its 168 actions; more than 335 million euros in force. This year the Directorate for Linguistic Policy increases its budget by EUR 3 million. Do not tell me that the necessary efforts are not being made, that progress is being made. Don't draw that apocalyptic panorama. Don't try to pressure these gentlemen permanently. They'll listen to him anyway. It would go against the freedom of many people. I have made a reference to everything that is being worked on in this legislature, it is a brief summary of what is being done. The II Plan for the Standardization of the Use of Euskera in Osakidetza. Guides to promoting the use of euskera, here and in all fora and municipal administrations. Publications, hundreds of publications (forals, autonomous...). He commented on the campaigns, the evaluations. The campaign of Basqueraz bai sano, other campaigns in relation to cultural dissemination in Basque. The days of the Basque, sponsored, promoted, subsidized from the common institutions and outside. How many institutions work! They used to refer to Euskaltzaindia. The Etxepare Institute, the Euskera Advisory Council, the Azkue Foundation (the Euskera Interpretation Centre), Elebide, the Labayru Institute, Kontseilua, the universities (the three, all with their Basque plans). And the promotion of euskera: HABE, Irale, IVAP. Mr. Isasi, please. Don't get so tired, man! If things are being done! It doesn't bore us. Things are being done. Better or worse, but we're backing it up. And some things seem good to us and others we can criticize, but they're being done. Don't paint that apocalyptic and pressure panorama. Of course, it is the heritage of Herri Batasuna, the heritage of Euskal Herritarrok that brings us this strategy. But I believe, Mr. Isasi, that this is a wrong strategy. Plans: General Plan for the Use of the Euskera 2013-2017, Action Plan for the Promotion of the Euskera (we have seen it in the work of the Advisory Council of the Euskera, also ratified by this Parliament), master plans on the Euskera (UPV, Deusto...), strategic plans of the deputies of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, hundreds of municipal plans. And we also have money to finance the French state in the matter of Basque. Look at you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u103	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Passing on the answers, Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u104	Mrs. President of the Parliament. First of all, thank you Mr. Barrio. He has made us a brilliant speech, the use of Euskakia's 1982's law, that is, he doesn't seem to have a legal guarantee. Last night's resolution was mentioned to the Council of Toulouse. [[Show some pages]] .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. It's given, but it's not legal. it is in the empty Spanish. The verdict against the ordinance of Toulouse, yesterday, Mr. Carmelo Barri. Debekatu egiten du... Literalki irakuriko diszuet: "Fundaments of law"n, esaten du, Carmelo Barrio jaunak esplikatu duen moduan, "vulneration of articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the Law on the Use of the Euskera", 1982ko legea, "as regards the use of the euskera, in accordance with the provisions of article 30.1, which does not comply with the co-officiality regime established by the Statute of Autonomy of the Basque Country and the said law". Oraindik era epaitegi arotzak – Arrotzak nire ikuspegitik, animal hyzkuntza bat ebiltzen duten neurorian – mustkatzen gure udalerrietan onartzen diren euskararen ordinantzak. Atzokoa. That's a treat and speech that's made here, very nice. I sometimes wonder at the way socializing, because they're progressives, what kind of speeches they make. Many things can be done under the will of the individual, but here, in this Chamber, progressistic view is always legalized in order to get things in order. Policy for placing an example, for promoting new computer resources and internet usage: already in many administrative parts the use of the internet is imposed on us by xv. We may say from another point of view, I dare say, that it is spreading, and all the citizens are necessarily obliged to make some observations through the Internet, because the use of the Internet is expanding. Progresisto, the left, the use we defend. And the left hand encourages and defends us, for example, during 16 years of education, and we would like to have a school to teach us in the course of 18 years. We defend that everyone must know how to read, write, informal, geography, and language. Languages. Other things, to the eucalyptus. To know how to support us is a subjective right, and this judge has here written without shame: "Ese deber del conocimiento del idoma de la Comunidad Autónoma del País Vasco no compadece con el régimen de cooficialidad establedo..." She has no shame in her writing that her own language is not to be recognized. Amazing. For me, at least, it's amazing. Mr. Carmelo Barri here mentioned dramaism. It's how you live sometimes. I can be ardent in this description, and much more when this comes to me this morning, seeing that we are still crushed. That is to say, a decree is made for the promotion of the sustain, a gentleman makes an appeal, and a judge consents to pursue this kind of thing. Obviously we don't have enough legal protection. It's obvious, as Carmelo Barrio has well explained, that the Normaization law of Euscaria, that is, a law of its kind, is that it is permitted to commit such crimes (I had another word in it, but I bit my tongue). What does that mean? We have to get a proper legal protection. And we want to thank the Jedi Party for this agreement, but we will continue to demand a new law for eucalyptus until the normalization of the sustain has been obtained. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u105	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Basque Socialists. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u106	With your permission, I'll do it from here. First, I want to tell Mr. Isas that if he really thinks he needs tension to keep going, he'll keep going like this. We think that we must continue to normalize to get ahead of the eucalyptic. That one. And, Your Excellency, forgive me, but if at last it's a middle-class correction to tell someone that it's a law or a sentence to fulfil it, it's not done. I think that's all he says. In the end, half-rational correction says: "Ogga, cumpledors las senensias." Does he not really know how to satisfy them? However, the Socialist team will abstain from your middle-way correction, and we'll maintain ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u107	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. Euzko Abertzaleak. Mendizabal andea, zurea da hitza. (Grabazio-akatsa) He said that for obsessive, Mr Urquijo, in case he has not heard me. That the debate on Article 10 is already settled by the courts, and just against Mr Urquijo's opinion; therefore, it is totally out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u108	You have not given a single argument against the compromise amendment. As for Mr Urquijo's reference, what we ask him to do is to abide by the sentences, something you always say, "We have to abide by the sentences," right? Nor is it useful for us to repeat the initiative, because it is you who often, in order to justify the repeated initiatives he presents, says that, even if an initiative is repetitive, we remind the Government of what it has to do. We therefore ask you to vote in favour of our amendment. Mr Azkue, your whole amendment is a pain in the ass, because precisely you are saying that to see how you are going to vote on a compromise amendment and your whole amendment is something that is already being done: the government is guaranteeing, is working to guarantee linguistic rights. Then I don't understand. We also take care of the law, as I have said before, and do not close to examining the legisity of the door, as well as of the Spanish legislation, and of Europe. There are other elements next to the laws, and there's the Basque Advice Board. And I have not mentioned it before, but you mention in the third and fourth place of motion that the consent of the institutions and of the enterprises of euscalation must be sought, and that the advice of the Basque Council has been working on this process for 12 years. And there's a lot of documents out there: We've just inserted the point that you're talking about, and that's what we're convinced of. The Basque Advice Board is Hakoba, which I mentioned earlier, and the Hakoban, the three diputations, the town of the three capitals, the Eudel and Ueme. The law of Eusecrate, therefore, is, as far as we have said, equal to that of the organic law in our legislature, since all the rest are derived from this law, and the government introduces them into all the sectarians into the materials for the promotion of the Eusces. As I said before, there are some in the ideological prejudices, and others, and others not to mention. It seems to us that what the Basque requires is among the agents of the community, amongst the arts of political association. It's not a job, it's a cooperation, because it's past, because we have to look at the future with other eyes. But now it is becoming fashionable to say that the theme of language ought to be drawn from political life, that the theme of euphora must be drawn from political life. We're listening to this more and more often. And it is true that language is not the patrimony of a concrete ideological point, but you can't deny that, in a healthy and natural way, it's normal to be related to language as well as to your political commitment. So we'll always stretch our hand for the journey, for the sake of the co-operation, for the sake of the eulogy, because I don't see it because I'm a patriot and I don't want to defend myself for the rest of my life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Isasi, that is, when the judges give you reason, well; when the judges deny it, there is a conspiracy of the government delegate with certain judges. I mean, the theory of the apocalypse from before. The courts give and remove reason, and Mr. De Urquijo has been given it on the vast majority of occasions, on the basis of article 8 in addition. On the vast majority of occasions. Moreover, the functioning of the courts of justice is the normal functioning of the rule of law. If someone has a claim based on legality, they can demand it in the courts; the courts will decide. You don't have to be so scared. But, besides, is it so serious to ask the municipalities to write the minutes in Basque and Spanish? Is it that serious? Not only because the delegate of the Government has to receive the minutes: for the citizens who want to read the minutes of the plenary in Basque and Spanish. Is it that serious? You make an apocalyptic, terminal debate about a thing that is legal normality and administrative normality. I will not reread Article 8 of the Basic Law of Normalization of the Use of the Euskera, I will not reread it. That's what the government delegate is doing. Mr Isasi, the Basque Government has not considered it necessary to amend the Euskera Act. There are a lot of minor regulations or regulations: orders, decrees, subsidies... He didn't consider it necessary, he didn't consider it. It will continue to consider article 8 of that law necessary. And on the Basque you have presented many initiatives – we have been doing a review, preparing this intervention. Many initiatives, repeated, machaconas, sometimes the same: requests for information, requests to appear (Mr Baztarrika has to thank you also to show up in the Committee on Culture). You have submitted several non-law proposals, interpellations, motions, questions of all kinds. You presented a monographic debate, which you were accepted; we debated, we tabled motions for resolutions... A good framework, too, to talk about things, and we talked and voted. There was an exchange of resolutions. There are, as I recall, 22 resolutions from the debate in committee, from the monographic debate on normalization of the use of euskera a year ago. It's recent. You've failed. You have failed because you have been given an initiative: you have not asked for any reform, nor have you put forward any legislative proposals on this issue, and you have the capacity to do so, and your parliamentary group. You have done the same as the government, undermining legislation. I mean, Mr. Isasi, you bore us, but you don't fulfill your obligation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u111	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Now that the discussion is over, we vote for the EH Collectors and the Middle Amendment signed by the Eubertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 68; the votes given, 69; the supporters 45; the opponents 10; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 14.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u112	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Number of points in theme list: "As the Socialists made the legislatures, the Serants Tunnel without much opening," and the project of the southern railway retreat. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Elola, the agent of the Basque Socialists, is yours to present and defend the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u113	Thank you, ma'am. Good evening, chief physician, and good afternoon to all. We've come with the other legal proposal today about sermons. There is a principle that is Perogrullo's: solutions can cause no more problems than those that try to avoid with them. This principle is absolutely applicable to the issue that we are bringing to the debate today, a debate in which what we are raising is clear and without recognizance, and without generic appeals: the rejection of the opening of the Serantes tunnel until we have the southern railway variant. A rejection that the socialists bring to this Parliament and that we share with a social majority of the neighbors of Trapaga, Ortuella and Barakaldo, who refuse to be the pagans of election announcements, the pagans of an imposition more than one government (the Rajoy government) deaf and blind to the consequences of their decisions. Because what we are talking about today is not more of a meth of a leg than the Minister of Development, now in office, by the way; no, it is a decision taken with lightness, premeditation and almost nocturnality, taking advantage of the darkness of the tunnel. They had begun to find a solution to the natural access to the port of Bilbo long ago. This arrangement was intended to prevent the train from the left and the suburbs of the Meazcan, and this route was made by the names of the southern media of the goods. But while the final project of the journey was defined, it began the first part of the deviation, known by the name of the serantes tunnel, which gave a right solution to the merchandise of the holy quays. The tunnel is 4,8 kilometres long, binds the saints and Ortuellas under the Mount Serantes; it was accepted in 2004, and four years later it was built by the cost of 300 million euros. The problem of this is: It doesn't take her anywhere. For, avoiding the centres of the city, the course of the south-west is not yet built, which the merchandise would bring and carry them to the Arritinaga. Because the variant project was not approved until 2008, when the economic situation had given way to the great recession, and it was clear that the Ministry of Development was not going to spend the 600 million euros in which it was supposed then. And there it was, because the municipalities concerned opposed, with good judgment, that the tunnel would come into operation if it were at the cost of the goods passing through the inhabited areas of their municipalities. Two recent events have shaken the waters. On the one hand, at the end of November, the Ministry of Development drew public information from the Information Study of the Southern Railway Variant. First phase, which includes a substantial variation with respect to the original project in relation to the connection branch with Renfe's Olabeaga proximity lines, giving the possible affected persons a really short period of 30 working days to submit allegations. And on the other hand, in the election campaign of December 20, the principal candidate from the Pontarian Biscague Party announced that, without making any further proposal, the Serantian Tunnel would soon be opened to operate on the port of Bilbo and the industrial part of the Holy Scripture. It's supposed to be transporting goods from the second line of Renfe's (Muzz Bibo) across the centers of Ortuella and Trapara. The agreement between society and institutions has been again broken by a mere informant, for it was agreed that the operation of the tunnel of Serantes could not produce an addition of the railway transport of the merchandise, if this addition were to produce the non-effective influences of travellers on the left side and the mainland, and especially on the existing conditions of the inhabitants. In the beginnings of its mandate, the People's Party tried to collate one more, as it tries to collate the opening of Garoña if we let go, as we got a whole preliminary draft of budgets for the year, imposing its absolute majority; as imposed the labor reform against the interests of the workers, as imposed by the law gag. Well, then, the neighbors of the Left Margin and Mining Zone reserved a specific place for them. The PP wanted us to go through the opening of the tunnel, because, without attending to anything or anyone, they would throw through the street in the middle and open the process of the south railway variant project. A proposal that absolutely despises the neighbours of the Left Margin and Mining Zone. A project that underestimates and none of the municipalities of Ortuella, Trapacaran, Barakaldo and Bilbao. A line that is nothing but a lack of respect and contempt for the agreements that had already been reached between the Government of Spain, the Basque Government and the municipalities concerned. Another leader of the People's Party, who even bring her to the election campaign, announcing the next opening of the Serantes tunnel. Another foolishness. And, knowing all this, this morning parliamentarian Nerea Llanos has given us a lesson and has read the book to all of us, but especially to the socialists, for pretending to form a government. And they have all this behind their backs. Because the work is not justified, the conditions are not justified, the environmental impact is not justified, nor is its cost justified. It is not the first time that this circle of Parliament has brought this into this Chamber, but at the end of 2013 we did it in response to another claim from the Basque Potian Party. It seems that the Popular Party is more concerned not to use the serantes tunnel, its openings, its southern routes, than the serious problems that could cause it. We believe that this criterion must be added from the legislature by the Ministry of Sustament, the Secretary of the State of the State of this Ministry, the uneasiness of the project of the southern absence of a railway. We're worried, first of all, that the Sustament Office has changed the original project and that it has suggested a branch of the Wavega to connect us with the train line on the left. This solution does not solve the problems that arise during passing people and merchandise, the neighbors in this neighborhood, and the municipals injured, do not want it. We share this position with the socialists, and we demand that the Chamber also protect this attitude. What, then, does the ministry present? Is it an informational study or a firecracker? Or perhaps it is some new perversity of the PP for Euskadi, and in this case for the Left Margin and Mining Zone, as we have said before. Is this an informational study? No, no, This joke varies substantially the project of the neighbors and the municipalities, which were studying and working on the commitment of the Ministry of Development itself, a commitment that was twofold: the freight trains should not cross the villages and the line of proximity that links with Barakaldo cannot be used. And then the government pulls a patch out of the sleeve: it uses the C-2 proximity line, it would open the Serantes tunnel, it would take advantage of the current layouts and, until the variant is fully developed, the goods would pass through the populations, among others, of Ortuella and Trapacaran. And in the meantime, they would go on with a project that someone has described as barbarity and that I would say that, on the basis that it is completely unacceptable, it is nonsense and a savagery. A folly and a savagery not only for Ortuella and Trapacaran, but now also for Barakaldo. And not only because of the current layout, but also because of the very important natural, environmental and visual impact that the El Regato valley is going to suffer. And also for Bilbao, where the future development of the Olabeaga area would be mortgaged. Well, the Socialists are opposed to the patch of the opening of the Serantes tunnel and the information study with the Olabeaga connection that this interim government intends to carry out. We are opposed because, in addition to the little sense of this decision, they have lied to neighbours and institutions, who have been led to believe that they would agree on the solution. We oppose that the neighbours of the Left Margin and Mining Zone will be the victims of one of the last decisions of the Rajoy black legislature. And we ask this Parliament to join in that request, so that Rajoy clearly understands that he spent time doing politics through the back door, with his eyes and ears covered. In short, what the Social Party proposes is that the decision to open the Serantes tunnel must not be one-sided. Such a decision cannot be taken unless it be determined beforehand, and the consequences of some other decision, to avoid the southern railway line of the merchandise. This alternative, as it is said in the opposite proposition, must give sufficient guarantees to the municipal and inhabitants of the injured area, and must be the intervention and agreeing of the institutions which this question produces. As you may know, we've signed medium with the National Party, because we finally agreed on principles and ends, and perhaps not in handwriting, but we've reached the middle course. And the work you've done is really grateful, Mr. Altaga, in the name of the Jelza Party. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this reasonable and reasoned position will have the greatest support from the groups in this House. That is what I expect, and that is what all the citizens of the area expect. And now, I don't know if it corresponds here, but I would like to say that we have presented in Spanish, in Spanish, in our official language, and it has been translated into Spanish, which is Basque too. As Spanish Basque as Spanish, they are two official languages, but I think there is a mistake. What we have signed says "working in the development, execution and adaptation of infrastructures", éta euskaraz jartzen du "garatzen eta exekutatzen"; "egokitzen" ere izango litzateke, egokiago hitzez hitz itzuliz gero. Badaezpada era, hemen exacten duet, age, hala ez bada, sinatu duguna da balio duena. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, Mistto. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u115	Thank you, President. We are again dealing with a matter that we have already dealt with on other occasions in this Parliament, such as the Serantes tunnel and the desirability of putting this infrastructure into operation or leaving it as it is. As I say, it's a recurring subject. On February 12, 2015, a plenary session was held in which the Socialist Group brought us a similar initiative, to reject in that case statements by Minister Ana Pastor on the implementation of this infrastructure, the Serantes tunnel. The new chapter is given because the Ministry of Development has submitted to public information the detailed study of the railway variant of Bilbao, first phase. The objective of this study is to evaluate the different options available in the route to connect the current Basque railway network with the port of Bilbao through the Serantes tunnel. Also, as it appears in the information project, it aims to make the connection also with the high-speed line that it seems will unite in the future Santander and Bilbao. The option they offer is to make a new road with a length of 12 kilometers for the transport of goods. With four kilometres of route, the Serantes tunnel is the longest tunnel in Bizkaia. It cost 50 million euros and was excavated for almost one litre, between 2005 and 2009. The reason why an infrastructure of this type is not useful for the moment rests on the fact that the southern railway variant has not yet been built. A line for freight trains that was designed thinking of joining the tunnel with Basauri along 18 kilometers. A colossal work that 80% would be buried and that requires an investment close to 600 million euros, according to data from 2010. The idea of rigging the Serantes and looking for a direct exit to the trains with containers and goods currently passing through the city centre of Santurtzi emerged more than two decades ago. In 2000 Álvarez Cascos took the Ministry of Development and gave the final impulse to the tunnel. They say that the former leader of the PP took a capital surprise when he discovered that more than 90% of the port charges were leaving or entering the free zone by road. According to the latest data then known, in 2009 the trucks moved 10.87 million tons compared to 0.98 of the train. This statistic, these data ended up convincing him that the Bizkaia motorways had to be decongested. The plan presented to him by the engineers seemed brilliant. He went on to dig four kilometers of underground corridor to pop up next to the Nocedal neighborhood, in Ortuella, on the other side of the coastal massif. There the railway would link with the C-2, the network of closenesses that joins Muskiz and Barakaldo, which should be completely removed to withstand the transit of longer and heavier convoys. During the work of execution of the tunnel it was reached the interinstitutional agreement, with the participation of different social organizations, that it would only enter into full operation when the southern variant of the railway was a reality, with the possibility that, if strictly necessary for some problem in the current route, it could be used in a punctual and exceptional way to give way to the goods of the port of Bilbao, through Ortuella and Trapacaran. On October 16, 2014, it was known by the media that during a meeting with the then leader of the Basque PP, Arantza Quiroga, the Minister of Development, Ana Pastor, announced that the problem of the Serantes tunnel will be resolved urgently, a solution that would go through its immediate start-up so that the freight trains would begin to leave the port of Bilbao through line 2 of closeness to Renfe, thus opening the door to a supposed expansion of the park of Santurtzi. In short, we find a work already done, which cost the public coffers 50 million euros, which can go to waste, since it does not seem very likely that the southern railway variant will be carried out over the next few years. On the other hand, the effects of 90 % of the goods going by road are as follows: Loss of competitiveness of the productive fabric in a context of irreversible economic globalization, in which the importance of logistical costs is critical when the intermodal chains are extended, and especially in our country because of their peripheral situation within the European Union. Important external costs, including a negative environmental impact due to the massive use of road mode. Increased energy dependence on fossil fuels resulting from the low use of the rail system. Systematic degradation of collaboration between modes of transport. And costs of non-action, unabated by the impacts generated on the low sustainability of the transport system. Being aware that the opening of the Serantes tunnel generates controversy in certain municipalities, I think it is reasonable to propose the opening of that tunnel, as it brings added value and a safer exit from the goods of the port of Bilbao, in addition to profitableizing an investment of 50 million euros that is already made, while remaining waiting for a variant south railway totally external to the municipalities we consider that it is a toast to the sun of more than 600 million euros. Minister Pastor set 2015 as the year in which an attempt would be made to close an agreement between the Ministry of Development, the port of Bilbao, the Basque Government and the municipalities involved on the project of the southern variant railway, which would allow the departure of the traffic of goods from the Basque port, one of the greatest yearnings of the harbour authority. That agreement has not yet been reached. With the start of the detailed study, the ministry has decided to face the problem and give it a solution, renouncing pharaonic works. Taking into account the situation and the work of the Serantes already performed, it seems to us that it is most reasonable. We can't throw 50 million euros away. These are the fundamental reasons why we did not see very well the original initiative put forward by the Socialist Group, where we were asked to reject this Parliament's proposal for an information study of the southern railway variant of Bilbao, carried out by the Ministry of Development, and through which we were asked to strongly reject the operation of the Serantes tunnel. We did not share the original proposal, nor did we share the compromise that both groups have reached. We maintain our amendment. We propose that this Parliament urge the Government of Spain to promote the transport of goods by rail, through adaptation to the needs of the market, bringing value to the global logistics chain, with objectives of improving the management of the system, the quality of service, efficiency and sustainability. We also propose that this Parliament urge the Government of Spain to ensure that the development of major infrastructure projects is managed and implemented with efficiency criteria, in order to prevent the repetition of an expansive policy of the infrastructure bubble that has only generated in Spain during the last few years waste, unemployment and corruption. To sum up and put it graphically, and to finish my speech, it seems absurd that, while there are also steps at a barrier-free level, we are putting forward the work of an infrastructure of more than 600 million euros. What we propose is that we improve, use and optimize the infrastructures that we have today, before pushing pharaonic works that cannot be absorbed by the public arks. That is why, as I say, I will reject the rest of the proposals and vote in favour of our own amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u116	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Matute, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief Department, congressman, good evening. Today, we are here to express our position by an informal examination of the southern railway retreat in Bilbo, which has been introduced by the General Directorship of the Office of Sustament. And our position is very clear: We are opposed to the proposal firmly, because it excludes the intervention of the people, and imposes upon them an impression. The composition annexed to the cement, which penetrates into the destructures of our people (Sardard and Meats), and, without considering the destruction of the environment, and the health of the people, is opposed to a policy of circumscribed environment to our people. As you can see, in our position there is an amendment in its entirety. An amendment to the whole of the draft or information study that we are talking about today specifically, but also, we do not deny, an amendment to the whole of many of the transport policies that have been carried out in the historic territory of Bizkaia, and, more specifically, in Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea, mainly in Ezkerraldea. Because what we see are the effects that have caused all of them and what we do not see are the benefits that promised us that they would become of all of them. Each and every one of the transport infrastructures that has been carried out, especially those related to the transport of goods, whether road or rail, have been sold as elements of economic goodness, of improving the quality of life of the citizens of Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea and as elements that would contribute to an improvement of our territory, in economic, social and environmental terms and parameters. The reality is that all this is a lie or is directly a huge failure on the part of the planner, because none of that has been achieved. And I'll explain it later. And what we see in the proposal or information study that the Ministry of Development carried out few dates ago and that has been broken down here with profusion is more environmental and social impact, more contempt for citizen participation, municipalities and social movements of municipalities. The current proposal, the proposal we are debating here today, which will probably be rejected on the basis of the amendment agreed by both the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, is insufficient from our point of view, but in any case I must admit that it does reflect that rejection. What can become from there is a rejection of some insulting forms and a tax line. A plot imposed to try to give meaning to a work that makes no sense, the tunnel of the Serantes; 50 million euros to make a beautiful hole in an even more beautiful mountain, not to know what future utility it will have, beyond that of investing 50 million euros of all and of all in something that has no use. We could talk about Castellón airport and I don't know how many things have been done in this atrium on many occasions. I do not think it is necessary, because I do not think it is necessary to go to that comparison to understand the absurdity of the expenditure made at a certain time in the Serantes tunnel. But we also believe that it is imposed, and that it is imposed to carry forward the Basque Y project. And I, when I had this point, was afraid someone would tell me something I've been told many times, too. that I take advantage of specific topics to talk about global readings and our worldview of things, which is often quite contrary to that of most of your ladies and gentlemen, but I am grateful for the intervention of Mr Elola, who has made a review of the whole chain of perversions of the People's Party, with which I quite agree. And he's talked about labor reform, the law bites and I don't know how many things, so I think my argumental connection between the railroad and the Basque Y study isn't going to stay out of time at all, and I'm also going to try to explain why it's all relevant. A Basque Y that needs a Santander-Bilbao connection, which I think will cost you pounds and pounds of anchovies to Revilla to be able to carry out. Because I believe that the arks are not for those waste, and perhaps in that, although our political position has been prior and clear on this, contrary to the high speed, perhaps that is why, because of the precarious economic situation in which the state's arks are located and not so lax the Basque arks, it is likely that this high speed plot, that of Santander-Bilbao, will not see the light. In any case, what we don't understand is that you want to cover previous bumps, like that of the Serantes train and like all the previous ones, because I would invite your lords to make an aerial view of what is Ezkerraldea, to understand that the orography is complicated, but the railway route and the road route that has been made in Ezkerraldea has made it even more complicated, until it is a malled territory, a territory full of scars, railway scars and road scars. A territory that cannot be compacted, that cannot have compacted urban cores, because it is directly crossed by road and rail infrastructures that transfer and transfer goods through urban cores, and that also do so not underground, as many of the municipalities in the area ask, but at floor level, on the surface. That's the reality. And that's why we're saying we don't think the solution is to cover cod with cod. And it's that this isn't even a patch, because if it was a patch, we could be talking about whether the patch is relatively good or relatively bad, but in any case, it would even help to alleviate the current situation a little bit. This is directly another hopper. Another splinter that can also be quantified, because here we talk about macro-infrastructures or waste. I don't know where the limit is that points to when a macro-infrastructure is wasteful or when it isn't. I know that 310 million euros, which is what this project costs, is not a minor piece of work. It is not a minor work, nor a domestic work. It looks like a piece of work of some magnitude. It also seems to be because of the insistence of the public institutions in favour of this, and also because of the insistence of those who oppose certain lines of action on urban planning, such as the one you propose. It is not at all, as I say, a minor work. It's 310 million euros to try to sell us the bike again, and I say so, sell us the bike again that it takes so much money to get all the goods out of the port of Santurtzi. Because that's where you lie, too. It is said that in the year 2014 there was an increase of the traffic of goods in the port of Bilbao (in the port that is in Santurtzi, known as the port of Bilbao) of 2,5 %. What is not said, what is hidden, is that from 2007 to 2014 there was a 25% decrease in the entry of goods to the port of Bilbao, to the port of Santurtzi. That's the reality. And they pointed it out to you before, and they're right. You, many of you continue to take pictures that have to do with a past reality. I don't know if it expires, but, of course, it's over. We are not in the freight volumes of 15 years ago, when they thought and pergave all these projects. But, however, they strive to carry them forward, and they strive to carry them forward even if they cost a million dollars. And they probably try to take them forward even if they cost a million dollars because the money isn't yours, or it's in a very small part. The rest of the money we put in all of it, and we don't seem to be being consulted at all. We were talking about the scar character that shows the urban landscape of Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea, and I don't want to forget the Supersur. The Supersur was another great project that was going to solve all the freight traffic problems of Ezkerraldea and also of Meatzaldea. The reality of Supersur is what it is, and it is quite sad, because there is no economic profitability and there is no social profitability, because the use of Supersur does not reach 40% of what is expected. Some say 42, others say 38; let's leave it in 40. And a great newspaper then talked about the need to improve it through improved connectivity, that is, that by getting there to be Internet connection, I understand, in the tunnels of the Supersur and in the whole of the Supersur, traffic will be improved. I don't know what Traffic will think about this, but I can't imagine that improving connectivity is the best way to increase freight traffic by a Supersur that is not used for other reasons. And, as we said, this is intimately linked to the Basque Y, with a Basque Y that (also says other people, we do not say it, not even people detracting from high-speed tracings) will not recover either the investment costs or the operating costs. That is the sad reality of an effort to continue to maintain infrastructures that are not necessary at present, that we believe were not previously, but that at present, because of the changing reality of our country, are not. And that is why we are proposing the initiative that we are proposing, because we are in total disagreement with the social impacts that will be generated in Santurtzi, Portugalete, Sestao, Barakaldo, Ortuella and Trapacaran or Olabeaga – to name but a few – because of the environmental impact that will be generated in the fauna and flora of all these places, because of the impact that it entails on the polluted and eroded soils of all Ezkerraldea, because no one wants to remember now a reality that will be quite dramatic if given. They want to go through a Lindane cell, Argalario's, with a tunnel. That same lindane cell, Argalario's, in 10 years... You've got to get all that soil out of there because you've already done your job. What are they going to do with the tunnel then? Will it become again, almost by the art of magic or the effect of Houdini, a tunnel that ceases to be a tunnel and becomes a trace again on the ground floor? It's a complete nonsense. And that is why we put forward the proposal and maintain it. And we do not agree with the initiative put forward by the PNV and the Socialist Party because we believe that in this, as in all the great works, we continue to suffer from a very clear reading, which is the need for cost-benefit analysis, which is something that the European Union is asking for and is something that the Spanish State – and I do not know why the Basque Government – does not seem to consider indispensable. We want to be very European, we want to be a spearhead in Europe (most of the time compared to those in northern Europe), but, however, this has to do with cost-benefit analyses, this has to do with citizens understanding that what is going to be spent is going to benefit everyone, depending on the economic, social and environmental advantages that it is going to bring, it is not going to be seen. That sounds like a nonsense to us. And it seems to us that, without analysing this issue, everything we speak here will return to the usual: a debate among which some will want to call it developmentists and, I don't know if we do, primitiveists. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u118	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Eubertarians. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u119	Thank you, ma'am. Mrs. Chief of Police, Congressmen, good afternoons to all of us. We have discussed this subject three times since the last 2013 years in this legislature, and having brought together the same groups at three o'clock, the Socialists. And the truth is, dealing with a matter three times without major developments producing a certain intellectual fatigue. Although, in our view, it may also be indicative of the level at which political initiatives are being tabled by the proposing group. In essence, we could refer, ladies and gentlemen, to what was said at the plenary session in this House exactly a year ago and to reproduce the arguments then used. On that occasion, it was statements by the Minister of Development at an economic forum held in Bilbao that motivated the initiative. This time have been the statements of the same Minister of Development of a government in office, made during the recent election campaign of the general elections. In both cases it referred to the possible opening of the Serantes tunnel, which is taken advantage of by the proposing group of this initiative to express its position on this matter. In our view, the issue should not have been given more importance: political statements made in an election campaign by a functioning government. And what has been new since we last dealt with this matter in the House? As has been said, the Ministry of Development at the end of last November has published the announcement that the Information Study of the Southern Railway Variant is subject to public information. First phase for the purpose of hearing the administrations concerned and the public information procedure laid down in the railway and environmental legislation applicable to the case, so that claims can be made as to its layout and the environmental impact that would entail its hypothetical construction. I believe that all groups will agree to appreciate the importance of freight traffic in our society, freight transport in general and rail in particular. The transport of goods, in an industrialized society like ours, must have a special priority, since it contributes to economic productivity and income generation, and it does so more than the transport of people. And this is important in a country like ours, small, densely populated and has a polynuclear structure. In this case it is a question of facilitating the transport of goods by rail to and from the port of Santurtzi or Bilbao to other industrial areas, both close to and far from it. It is about extending the benefit of the port to its area of influence. In addition to the port, there is another area that makes up a great movement of goods, both in origin and in destination, although on it today there are large clouds, such as the factory of Arcelor Mittal de Sestao. This is intended to solve the problems of congestion in road freight traffic, a traffic that has been increasing in recent years as a result of port activity. And it is true, Mr Matute, that in the period 2007-2011 I had dropped this percentage that you have said, but from 2012 onwards it is recovering, about 10%: 2.1% in 2013, 4.1% in 2014 and it is estimated 3.5% for this last year, 2015. To tell the truth, rail modernisation in Euskadi has been stalled for many years for political reasons. There are several options to address the problem, but the construction of the southern railway variant is a necessary infrastructure to facilitate the traffic of goods from the port of Bilbao through the railway. In addition, thinking about the future, this infrastructure will serve to continue the high-performance rail network through the cantabrian cornice. In the original initiative presented by the Socialist Group, we see a contradiction between points 1 and 4. We did not know whether or not they were in agreement with the construction of this southern railway variant. We do not agree with that initiative initially presented, because it shows its rejection of the proposal for an information study. We understand that this southern railway variant must be built. Secondly, it strongly rejected the start-up of the Serantes tunnel, and we understand that this already built infrastructure should be used as far as possible. And those two issues have, in our view, been corrected in the compromise amendment. Our group wants to place the emphasis not so much on the Minister's statements, made with more or less fortune, but on the facts produced, which are concrete in the proposal made by the Ministry of Development to solve this problem, a proposal that seems to us to be correct in general terms, although there are aspects that can be improved. On the aspects of improving the layout, the Basque Government has already made the allegations in this regard, has transferred them to the Ministry and all parliamentarians know them because they have been referred to this House, at a request for information from a parliamentarian, in particular. In essence, they refer to the subterration of the route at its passage through the municipality of Ortuella; also, going from east to west, to the modification of the displacement to the south of the viaduct on the river Castaños that allows to avoid the affection in the sports area and the neighborhood Gorostiza, and the same regarding the open-air route that it posed in the vega, in the area of Olabeaga, and that it is proposed to subterrane. With these proposals, the aim is to avoid or minimize the potential diseases to the affected populations or to the growth plans of the respective municipalities, as well as other measures to minimize the environmental impact. Our position on the southern railway variant is perfectly reflected in the proposed amendment of the whole, which has served as the basis for reaching an agreement with the Socialist Group, to which we are grateful for the efforts made to reach that agreement, and which I am briefly moving towards. First of all, we propose that further work be done to implement in the territory the political decisions on railways through the use of the territorial planning tools that we have at hand in our Autonomous Community. We then propose the construction of the southern railway variant and the use of an infrastructure already built, although its commissioning is conditioned on the definition and construction of this future southern railway variant. Thirdly, to analyse and resolve any claims that may be made, taking into account, in particular, the environmental aspects of the project that is intended to be carried out. And finally, we propose to collaborate closely in the development of the project, through the agreement to be signed between the two governments for the correct solution of this problem. And all this, regardless of whether we continue to call for the transfer of means for the exercise of the competence of the railways provided for in the Gernika Statute of Autonomy and which has been long violated by the respective governments of the General Administration of the State, as our lehendakari explained yesterday. With regard to the other amendments, we cannot support EH Bildu's initiative because it radically opposes any railway solution in this area. And with regard to UPyD, your approaches, Mr Maneiro, are interesting in terms of general criteria for any planning of transport infrastructure. Okay, but it's empty, it doesn't say anything. That is why we stand by the proposal on which we have reached an agreement with the Socialist Group, to which I would like once again to thank for the willingness to reach an agreement. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u120	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Passing over to the group that hasn't been running any corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u121	Good afternoon. Mr Elola, you are probably a little disappointed because the tone of the intervention of the nationalist spokesman has not added to the enthusiasm in your demonizing intervention of what the People's Party government has been in these years. But, nevertheless, he congratulates them, because he has managed to sign a compromise amendment with them. I was even intellectually curious to see the collapse of the Basque Nationalist Party in this matter, taking into account all the process we have experienced and all the intrahistory in this matter. But, well, the square of the circle exists and that is the compromise amendment that will come forward today. This same week we have known important data for the Basque and Vizcaine economy relating to the port of Bilbao. The increase in freight traffic in 2015 was 6 %, representing 32.8 million tonnes; 1.8 million tonnes more than in 2014. That data was not updated by Mr. Matute. The port of Bilbao is one of the most important logistics transport centres on the Atlantic route to access the European market. The Government of Spain in this legislature asked Brussels for funding to execute 60 transport infrastructures, and the first project on the list was the improvement of the railway connection of the port of Bilbao. It was important, even urgent, to unblock the South Railway variant project to end the bottleneck produced by the current rail connections. But this is not important from now on; we have been dragging everyone's inability to solve this situation for decades. The solution is the southern railway variant, a fundamental demand of the Bilbao Port Community for many years. The Ministry of Development, and its head, Mrs. Pastor, undertook to develop the informational study of the variant in 2015, something for which the leaders of the Basque Government, the Basque Nationalist Party and the director of the port were also congratulated. She undertook to do this informative study to run it in phases, and so it has been; the minister – and here I have not heard anyone say it – has fulfilled her commitment and in November this was a reality. Fomento submitted to public information the study of the southern railway variant of Bilbao, the first phase, and the object of the study is the analysis of the different layout alternatives to put into service the already constructed railway tunnel of the Serantes; built, but unused, unused, after an investment, as we have all recalled, of 50 million euros. Public information is also relevant for environmental purposes, as this action is subject to the environmental impact assessment procedure regulated by the Environmental Assessment Act, and prior to its final approval the environmental impact statement by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment is required. Three tracing alternatives have been studied that connect the southern mouth of the Serantes tunnel with the railway network of the centre and east of Bilbao by tracing and tunnel, accompanied, where appropriate, by partial doublings of the C-2 line. The proposed alternative consists of a new variant of about 12 kilometres in length, whose connection to the existing railway network would occur at the San Mamés roadway, in the Olabeaga district. This variant has three tunnels of 6,900, 1,280 and 990 meters in length, as well as two viaducts. With this solution the corridors of proximity and goods are independent, avoiding the passage of the circulations of the port of Bilbao between Ortuella and Barakaldo, and with the consequent improvement in the exploitation of the lines of proximity C-1 and C-2. This study has been presented in the Subdelegation of the Government of Bilbao, in the Secretariat of Infrastructures in Madrid, in the municipalities of Bilbao, Barakaldo, Trapaga, Ortuella, Abanto and Ciervana and Sestao, in addition to being available through the web of the ministry. Allegations have been made to this study by, among others, the Basque Government, to whom this Parliament must monitor its action and urge it to take initiatives. The improvements in the Basque Government's allegations are aimed at reducing the impact of infrastructure at specific points and enhancing the uses and functionality of the railway variant. From the ministry it will also be necessary to consider the desirability of modifying Adif's proposal to draw 400 meters open in Olabeaga, as well as the alternative of prolonging a false tunnel that runs under the main trunk of the road access executed in Bilbao from the AP-8. It is true that in this way, being fully covered, the residential use plans in the area provided for by the Bilbao City Council in its General Urban Planning Plan would be respected. The Basque Government has also proposed changes for Ortuella and Barakaldo. I am focusing on the allegations made by the Basque Government, because this debate is taking place here in the Basque Parliament. This is the forum. It is not the Congress of Deputies, where it has already been debated and will continue to be debated, nor is it the Senate; nor are the municipal plenarys of the localities concerned, who have already been able to present their corresponding allegations. I understood that all the groups wanted to facilitate the departure of goods from the port of Bilbao, but at this point in the debate and in history I already have more than serious doubts about it. And he also considered that we all wanted to have the least possible incidences for the affected neighbours and municipalities, but we must all be aware that it is materially impossible to have zero conditions, and that, understanding each and every municipality, it is also necessary to have an overall view that combines budgetary, environmental, urban, chronological, political and competitive aspects. And here, if we are all honest (and some more than others) and if we do not retreat to the last polemic of turn, to the last parliamentary debate of turn, but do so with historical perspective, I do not think that there is any party here represented that has been able to square the circle. In any case, nothing is yet definitive. The allegations have not yet been resolved, they are being analysed, and we will see whether there is a capacity to achieve greater institutional and social consensus. I hope so. Of course, both the People's Party and the Government of Spain are working on this. As for the original initiative, of course, we are not going to support it. Besides, with the defense you've made of it, it's that you haven't left us half a loophole. It seems to us that it does not contribute to progress in this infrastructure, in the solution to the problem of the goods of the port, and that the sale is being put before the wound, because it is still possible to contemplate improvements and avoid affections in the localities affected and because you seem to be going to continue to delay these solutions sine die. But this debate, despite the fact that it has already taken place in this Parliament, will grant me that it has changed substantially. At least when it comes to intervention, the Basque Nationalist Party has had the prudence not to join the demonizing enthusiasm of the Socialist Party for the People's Party and its government, because it would have been unfair, I believe. And I also believe that the subject of the variant has gone into the background and that, probably, given the context and situation in which we find ourselves, there are other premises that prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Passing over to the answering shift, representative of Basque Socialists. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u123	I thank you again, Madame the chairman of the meeting. I will start at the end, with Mrs Ruiz, who is the one who has finished the intervention. You have tried my intervention as a demonizer and you have been surprised that the Nationalist Party has not followed my line. My line – or our line – is our line and the one who wants to add up adds up, we impose nothing, which is what seems to have hurt them, that we have talked about imposing four years of legislature, in which it has been treated in that way, and that is why the People's Party, Mr Rajoy, is as it is, demonized alone. He says the variant has been left in the background. I think he's been in the intervention at all times, in everyone's mind, at least in ours. And if not, it's here, in the transactional, and it was in the original as well. So, to put it in the background... Perhaps it was so clear what we were saying that there was no need to repeat. Mr Matute has said that he rejects the insulting ways in which decisions have been taken on the variant. Mrs. Ruiz didn't find out anyway, but we've tried. We have dealt with and there is a project, which is not carried out and which, however, is not decided. And, if you have noticed, we have said that we are in favour of that variant, but not as it is, that it is all to be discussed. Y, como ha dicho que ha colado de una una shape insultante los vecinos, he entenddo yo ochra, leer, por no ha leído, el tercer tipso de transaccial, que taba ens las dos de maria. Decía: "... Let the appurtenances presented to the first stage's report, and seek to obtain as great an institutional and as possible social consent as possible, the negative effects of the construction of this substructure, especially in the aspect of environment, between institutions, political parties, and neighbours' associations... "I don't know. I think it's pretty clear. And to-day, and precisely here, if we have this proposition, that is why. I have mentioned the Hadadan and the people who dwell about me in my practice, the Meazcans and the Left-easts, and those who dwell about Bilbo. Because we count them all. And, indeed, if he had stayed before, it was by their own agency at least a great deal. You were talking about the Basque Y, which is going to connect... Well, I think next week, on your proposal, I think it is, we can talk about it. And since we're not doing very well in time, I'm going to go on. I wanted to dedicate it to Mr. Aldaiturriaga... I was surprised by your speech: you thanked me. No, no, I thanked you, because it was our proposal. I've thanked him, but on top of it it seems that we've gone by his hand. He said: "Three times this issue has been brought by the Socialist Party. Maybe they're running out of topics to come here." I remind you that this morning on the fourth point, speaking of the action of the Basque Government, Mr Pastor has already told you everything that has been implemented, how many laws have been made, how many on the proposal of the Government and how many on the proposal of the other opposition groups, and how many on the proposal of the Socialist Party. If there are any parliamentary groups here that have put forward proposals, that is the Socialist Party. And the reason we brought this proposal was precisely because the neighbours of the Left Margin and the Mining Zone are concerned about the announcement made by the People's Party through its minister and some member of the People's Party in that line. We have brought precisely because we receive the concerns of the citizens. He said that his amendments had reinforced the proposal. No, with your amendments, as with our amendments, we have come to a compromise, which is easier to understand. And I will tell you one thing, Mr Aldaiturriaga: the Socialist Party here in this Parliament has defended the same as in the General Councils, the same as in the municipalities, the same as in the Senate and the same as in Congress. We're going to defend the same thing. And a lot of smoke curtains have been thrown out here, but the important thing that has to be made clear is that we are against the opening of the Serantes tunnel. We do. The rest say the same thing? We do now. As long as it is not concrete and the southern variant is not clarified, we are against it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u124	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u125	That's what we say. We are against any possibility that any of the trains would cross the above-mentioned villages. We're against it. The rest do? The People's Party does? And, of course, Mr Matute, we are against and we will support that any decision that is taken be taken into account by the neighbours, and above all by the peoples in some way affected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u126	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Mist must not speak. Mr. Matute, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u127	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. As they say five minutes is right, I'm not going to spend a second, I'm going at a faster speed than I'm used to. Mr Elola, I do not know if you have not understood me correctly or if I have expressed myself wrong, that there may be of everything, but I have not pointed out the evils and the tax character and the forms to your text, to your amendment. I've pointed that out to the informational study. I said that the information study was characterized by being absolutely imposed and disregarding the will of the citizen. In the answer I was trying to clarify something that I didn't impute to you. I may not agree with your initiative, and I think I explained why, but it wasn't exactly why. Then there is another issue that I also want to clarify, and I think that, if it's a mistake, it could be more of a misperception of yours than mine. It is not a question of the decision being taken being taken into account by the citizens and the institutions, because that is what always happens, which the institution decides and the citizen has nothing else to do with. It will be more to the contrary, that what we want is for what is decided to take into account what the citizens are thinking, what the municipalities of the area, of Ezkerraldea and Meatzaldea, are saying. But we also want to make one thing clear. We find it worrying. In this debate, in some municipalities in the area, in some political parties that now have a pre-eminence position in the municipalities in the area, a NIMBY reading (the reading of "not in my backyard") is being done. "No, because now it's my turn. Not because I think it's wrong. Not because it seems to me bad that the neighbor destroys the territory, that they do it with seams and scars, but because now it's up to me, or because now I rule, and because now I don't want to face a social reality that bothers, that bothers." We don't like that much. And you do now. He said, "We are now against the Serantes tunnel." That's like NATO's "incoming, no" kind of thing. We have a clearer reading. We were not in favour of the beginning of the works of the Serantes, we were not in favour of the Serantes' own work, and we were not in favour of the southern railway variant as it has been historically designed. And, with this in mind, I also respond to the representative of the Basque Nationalist Party, and we do not oppose any railway solution. I believe that in this debate, as in everyone else, it is appropriate and good to make a certain chronology. The Supersur, in response to the need to give way to the goods, from the port of Bilbao fundamentally, did not raise it Euskal Herria Bildu, did not raise it even any of the parties that are currently in Euskal Herria Bildu; you raised it, and you raised it because you prioritized the Supersur as the vehicle, as the instrument or channel that would give way to the goods from the port of Bilbao or Santurtzi. It wasn't us. Then, if someone did a hierarchization that left behind the ferry solution, it was you, a few years ago, when you bet on the Supersur. It is true that Supersur has yielded a more than discreet result in terms of the advantages it was going to obtain, but that again is the responsibility of those who project in the eyes of citizens a reality that is then never fulfilled. And that's not just due to the Supersur. We could also talk about the estimates made for the external port of Pasaia. There was talk of 20 million tonnes per year; the reality is 3.8 million tonnes per year. It seems that this imperative need to build the superport in that case, in the outer port of Pasaia, was not so much in terms of reality. And that is a dynamic, a constant that has been produced in all the great works and that makes us come and ask – and that is why we are going to vote against their initiative and we are going to defend our amendment in its entirety – that cost-benefit analysis be made, that people be aware that when we talk about important expenses, of very important expenses, we need to have the maximum guarantees possible (accepting a percentage of improvisation, if I accept it), so that people know what is being spent and how it is going to reverse what is being spent. Because what can't be is that we continue to do macro-infrastructures without a minimal cost-benefit analysis, projecting some into people's imaginations some advantages that then never give, but some bills that then always have to pay. That is the reality with which we have been living and it is a reality which we do not see in this debate any solution to. And the representative of the People's Party said, and I finish now, that the allegations are being studied. I believe that if you review the allegations made by the municipalities and social groups, both Barakaldo and Meatzaldea and the rest of the area, you will notice that they complain about the short time they have been given, the rather unreal nature of some assertions made in the study-report, and what they do not raise in any case is that they have been given a margin for consensus. It is hard to believe, without the need to enter to demonize more a party and a essence of government that has demonized itself. You have already remembered it here – it seems that it is not necessary to remember – that it is you who make little hearing, little listening attentive to what the citizens say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u128	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Eubertarians. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u129	Thank you, ma'am. Let's split it up. Mrs. Cristina Ruiz, we haven't made any skirmishes. We consider ourselves in favour of the southern railway variant and now the need to define through a project the solution to this problem that we find in this area and with this infrastructure appears. So, skimp, none. If I thank you for correcting the data on the increase in the traffic of goods. The data you had was 3.5%, you said 6%. I believe you, which abounds in our thesis that we need to solve the problem that will arise in the medium term. And in this matter, Mrs Ruiz, it is true that we must recognize the efforts made by the Ministry of Development in order to define a concrete solution to this problem. You may agree with this more or less, but it is true, they have fulfilled; then, I also thank you, and there is nothing to hide. With regard to the Socialist Group, we wanted to show that it was perfectly clear that we do not support the opening of the Serantes tunnel; in fact, this is expressly stated. There is therefore nothing to object to. With their approach to a new study, a new project, we believe, deepened the historical impasse that prevents the modernization of this matter and we would come to a paralysis by analysis, already well known in this House. His concern for Meatzaldea and Ezkerraldea in this matter is that it sounds a little hollow to us, in the sense that there have been eight years of Zapatero's government, overlapping with three and a half years of Mr López's government, and they have done absolutely nothing; the only thing left in the drawer of memories the study of the then written southern railway variant. And all I want to tell you is that if you succeed in forming a government, you can speed up construction work. But I do not know whether you should be very convinced of this because of the initiative that brings us here today in order to discuss with the Socialist Party, taking advantage of any circumstances. With regard to Bildu, it is not up to us to defend, as I said, the position of the Ministry of Development, but the information study contains all these questions about costs, traffic forecasts, construction costs, etc. You may or may not agree with him, but at least it is a positive step, a document on which to discuss. We find it somewhat paradoxical that you... First, we did not understand its approach and we still do not understand it, why they oppose the construction of the southern railway variant, and yet they ask for cost-benefit analysis. Cost-benefit for what? Something they're already willing to not accept. Then, we believe that the intellectual process in this matter must be reversed: first, to have the information possible, and then to decide, not to decide beforehand and then to ask for studies. What you have to do is position yourself, Mr Matute, on this issue. Do you believe that the existing conventional network, lines C-1 and C-2, are used to support rail traffic? Or do you think there's nothing to be done, that's enough with what's there? We, Mr Matute, are once again highlighting here – in this compromise amendment we are doing so – territorial planning, which you have been demanding over and over again as a tool for realising political decisions on goods traffic in the territory. You request territorial planning, we practice it. There was even a time when you from the government also practiced it, along with us. When the railway PTS was approved, you were in government, supporting one way or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u130	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. And finally, Euskal Pionarian Group reps. Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u131	Yeah. The amendment will go ahead with the agreement... At least the PNV and the Socialist Party have an agreement, but in the spirit I have not seen excessive complicity. It seems to me that this agreement has been a little forced. That's my impression. Of course, everything has to be contextualized, and we are at a time when there is a government in office and some must believe that a weak dog... and weak dog, nothing, that this is not fleas. Urkullu is also calling for competition over rail services and the management of the Adif network. There are the PNV and the Socialist Party, unlike what happened when we last debated, in coalition since May in municipal governments. There have also been changes in political colours, there are also budgetary arrangements; the PSOE is in the midst of the Basque Nationalist Party to facilitate Pedro Sánchez's investiture. I believe that all this also contributes to making an amendment and debate such as today's one possible. Because, if not, it would be difficult to understand the words and reproaches that were exchanged in this very Parliament, in this very legislature, when the Nationalist Party abhorred the socialist government that its plans kept them in the drawer, that then remained in the dream of the righteous, that a government of the People's Party had to arrive to get this back to rhythm, that it is evident that we start from radically different points of view with the Socialist Group, that with the socialist approach nothing is achieved: to remain the same, that in the end we continue to have the monument to the tunnel... We also talked about facilitating the fulfilment of socialist commitments of the past, we talked about the Town Hall of Santurtzi, the social utility and the profitability of the more than 50 million euros invested in the tunnel of the Serantes, without promoting its opening. And all this I have not said, all this was said to him by the Basque Nationalist Party a few months ago in this very Parliament. I haven't been in Parliament that long, I haven't been in the whole legislature, and I've heard this debate before. That's why I understand that things are either contextualizing a lot or not being understood. And Mr. Matute said we didn't listen to the Left Margin and the Mining Zone. I guess your partner, Mr. Casanova, has you up to date on the papers and everything we've been working on, and I haven't listened to the Mayor of Santurtzi in so long, and I don't know if I would subscribe to all of this. I didn't think so in that paper. But anyway, we're still talking about very different interpretations. And, of course, this debate is not as manic as it is intended, and you yourself have made reference – I fully agree here – to the Supersur. Come on, with what has cost that infrastructure, the Basque Government, if it had the competition, could not only take forward the southern railway variant, but take forward the best of the variants that we could conceive of among all with that budget. So this must be something of the Basque agenda. Now I understand; it cost me, but now I understand the Basque agenda. And I suppose this is what you are talking about at your negotiating tables and in your pre-investigation flirtations, and we trust that now you will be able, at least, to continue handling this quimera, in which you cannot assign responsibilities to those who have endeavoured to carry out a project and to those who have simply devoted themselves to bringing about parliamentary debates, but without advancing a peak, unlike us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the mediumal correction signed by Basque Socialists and Eucabertists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 67; the votes are 68; the supporters are 39; the opponents are 29; white, 0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-18.u133	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was six o'clock in the afternoon and thirteen.
