ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u0	Good morning. First point in theme list: "On the one-day process of the Eubertians, EH Collect, Eukal Socialists, the Basques, the Popular Groups of Basques and Mistua-UPyD for the High Courts of the Common-wealth to employ the legal proposition, the production of a compensation for the victims of the amianto. Discipline and final resolution. On the basis of the table of April 19th, 2016, all the members of the legislature were requested, this initiative will be transmitted by a single process in the entire Union. You're in the papers where you're parted from, and we're just going to argue. Who wants to be a part of the side shift? Raise your hand, please, or come in, please. Side shift? Okay, so let's start with Popular. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. This initiative originates from an agreement of this House in which it was agreed to constitute a study paper in order to analyse the content, purposes and responsibilities of a possible asbestos compensation fund within the European context, which will raise its conclusions in terms of proposals, so that its recommendations can be incorporated into the Basque Labour Health Strategy. A few years ago (previous legislature); therefore, it has taken us some time to move forward on this point. From the People's Group we remain firm in the idea that it is necessary to create a compensation fund for those affected by asbestos. We in this House approved the presentation report. In the paper, if you remember, this was the majority agreement we reached. We have left ourselves with quite a lot of things in the paper that many of the rapporteurs have explained, since the Association of Affected by the Amicable, to whom I would like to welcome to this House, to thank you for your presence and to appreciate the work and the record of those affected, who have made us stand before this unanimous agreement of this House today. As I said, this fund must go beyond the scope of the Autonomous Community (that was the agreement of the presentation). That is why we have recourse to the Chamber of Deputies of Spain, of the central government, thinking that the ideal would be a European equality fund for all those affected by asbestos in the European Union. But we go step by step, we go forward, I don't know if with the necessary speed, but taking firm steps. In the same way that we have been firm in this respect from the Group of the European People's Party, we insist on the need to address other areas and actions which within our Autonomous Community are necessary to alleviate the situation of those affected by asbestos and which were highlighted in the presentation. This House has said no to an initiative we are presenting, but we do not give up insisting on what we think is necessary, and we will continue to do so. We know that constancy, work and common sense have their fruit and success; therefore, we will continue to insist. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u3	Egun on, lehendakari. Ladies and gentlemen. First of all, I would like to welcome the Association of Affected by Amianto; it is for them and for others who, like them, suffer from this problem for whom this work has been done. Secondly, and taking advantage of the circumstances, I would like to send a greeting to all the delegates of Arcelor Spain who are today in Zumarraga to defend the plants of Zumarraga and Sestao. And I want to say that, well, as a group that proposed at the time the creation of the paper, we must express our satisfaction for the work done and also say, in more personal and intimate terms, that, surely, of all the agreements in which this parliamentarian has participated it is the one that gives me the most satisfaction, for what Mrs López de Ocáriz has said: it has been a long, profuse work, it has been prolonged over time... I still remember when in the previous legislature the presentation was also created through a debate that raised other things, or similar things, and then, when the creation of the presentation arose, logically, the opinions to use arose: "Well, there is nothing impossible except that it falls into the hands of a presentation", "This is a way of throwing balloons out"... , but this work that is to be approved here today shows that when there is will, the papers or any other working body in this House are able to carry forward the objectives that are being proposed. Well, we can only congratulate ourselves on the work done, hope that now, through the legislative initiative before the Courts, this text, like Moses in the Nile, will be collected at the time and welcomed with the interest it deserves and end up giving rise to a text in which we are homologated with the other developed countries that have a fund of this nature to compensate for the damage suffered by asbestos. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u4	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u5	Thank you. Before I come to the subject, in my name, and in the name of all the congregation of EH, I will show the support and support of Starter Erriz, my friend. They've punished the political press again, but fortunately I'm sure that Starter will know how to make his political contribution outside of this legislature. Good morning, everyone. Representatives of the Aviamie Society, welcome to this room again. We're about to have a historic moment to live today. All the members of the legislature have submitted unanimously to the use of the legislation for the principal court of the State, to produce a composition of compensation for the victims of the amiant. This time, I'm sure, we all agreed on a subject. Historical, no doubt. This proposition, therefore, is to please, but what is really important is the real key, the proposition itself. We know the state of the sick because we have often talked about it, and the report of the past has certainly been discussed, and there is no doubt that we have come to the end of a long journey. Not a single parliament in the Spanish state has introduced a particular proposition about this subject. It is true that in several legislations the anxiety of the amania has been brought to an end, but we know that what some of them require when they are in opposition, they do not fulfil when they arrive at the government. So we may say that the injured Americans have no answers, no compensation, no remuneration. Therefore the steps we are taking today in the legislature are to rejoice and to value, because for the first time and unanimously we demand the Spanish State to produce a dose of compensation for the damage to the patients of the amiants. By this kind of law-making, which has been introduced by all the members of the legislature, it will be obtained by the doctrine of compensation, by the family or workmen who have been shut up by judicial means, since they have no corporations to claim the compensation, to see the injury concluded, and to obtain the compensation. It was now time for the victims of the amanias, and the pain of their families, the damage, and the expense of their families, to be considered only as a judicial institution, and even the emotional in order to make amends forprobations. We cannot forget, as we have often elsewhere said, the suffering of these families, because they have really to live in a very severe situation, and though the state of compensation has not been solved, at least it will be relieved. We have agreed upon the law, and the necessity of the essence. The example we propose is founded on the law which regulates the French fund. To collect EH, the proposition we're going to accept is in a great measure what we've been asked for in the past six years by the injured Amyans. We don't want to end the injured in general and the Asviamie Society, because it's a matter of gratitude for the patience, safety and understanding of the injured. Finally, every time we've spoken about the amianto, we've shown that the amianto is a silent murderer. And unfortunately, society is not possessed of it, and as it is silent, it passes quietly through society without being heard of by anyone, or of very few people. And today we'll be the loudspeaker of the injured, so that society and institutions can hear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Arianz, Eucobertarians. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u7	Thank you, ma'am. President, Chief, congressmans, good morning. A special greeting today also to the representatives of the Association of Affectados por el Amianto who accompany us today. Eskerrik asko etortzeagatik. Two weeks ago I spent a few hours with José Mari and Marisa, I've known them since I was a kid in the Txorieri valley. José Mari, now retired, worked for many years in a company that manufactured the ferocious brakes and clutches. Marisa was systematically washing her work clothes. José Mari is affected by asbestos; Marisa fears to be. During our conversation I was asked basically three questions: what can be done about asbestos? What's he really doing? What is this going to be approved in Parliament on asbestos? I have the opportunity to turn your questions into the script of this speech. What can be done? What are the areas of action? Exposure prevention can be done, health surveillance can be done and compensation can be made. So, what's he doing? Actions in these areas. In the prevention of exposure, in broad terms, illegal withdrawals and uncontrolled discharges are avoided, withdrawal procedures are used by authorised companies and are transferred to controlled deposits. In health surveillance, Osalan is already developing the connection of health surveillance information systems of workers exposed to information from their medical history as citizens, which implies a more systematic knowledge of possible harm. And through the post-occupational surveillance plan, specific health tests are being conducted in Osakidetza to monitor the possible occurrence of exposure-related pathologies. The file of workers exposed to asbestos is being managed and updated. And as far as compensation is concerned, this is the objective of today's debate. It is also the objective of the presentation, and this is the objective or the object of the third question, the most specific one by José Mari and Marisa: what will be adopted today in Parliament? Until the end of the 19th century, compensation systems for personal injury suffered by workers, based on the demonstration of the employer's guilt, prevailed in the context of a civil claim for damages. Since the beginning of the 20th century, guilt-free compensation systems have been imposed, in which the worker is compensated solely for having suffered damage to the job, whether or not the employer is responsible for the damage. In these systems that have prevailed to this day, the necessary resources for compensation come from insurance contracted – usually by legal obligation – by the employer. These guilt-free compensation systems, effective when the damage has been caused by an accident at work, because the damage occurs immediately and the cause-effect relationship between the work and the damage is usually obvious, are much less so in the case of occupational diseases, where the disease is often manifested quite long after exposure to the agent causing it. The case of asbestos is particularly complex. First, the latency time between exposure and disease onset is extraordinarily long. Secondly, a relatively high number of cases, around 20%, occur in people who have not been professionally exposed to asbestos, such as Marisa, the cause of exposure being environmental pollution on many occasions, which in many cases does not have a defined culprit. Thirdly, the number of people affected is relatively high, very high. Therefore, in the case of those affected by asbestos, the procedures for assessing and indemnifying compensation systems are often inoperative, so that those affected are obliged to resort to the courts to obtain the redress to which they feel they are entitled, to which they are entitled. They only have to fight for damages against the company as the only way of redress. In some cases there is no longer a company to claim; in others, many affected cannot see the end of the long judicial process alive – and so hard. Therefore, most of the states in our environment, which have had the same levels of asbestos use and the same harmful impact on the people that we have, have constituted specific compensation funds, with the aim of compensating the victims of asbestos. Not in the Spanish state. It's late, 15 years late, as we said in the plenary on March 15. Unjustly late, irresponsiblely late; and what is worse, there is no indication, either in the executive or in the State's legislature, of trying to correct this situation. The presentation in this Parliament was set up with the aim of studying the possible creation of a fund of these characteristics. Its main conclusion is clear: the need to create such a compensation fund in the State. And in order to materialise this conclusion, and after having analysed in detail all the models of funds in operation in Europe, we think it appropriate to follow a model similar to the French FIVA fund, so we include in our proposal an articulated text that structures it. It is often said in the parliamentary slang, when a non-legislative proposal is passed, that duties are placed on a government. Today we will not pass a non-law proposal, we will pass this law proposal, doing the duties that the Spanish State, incomprehensiblely, has not done. The Basque Parliament is the first institution to demand that Madrid implement this fund, and we do so from unity, unanimous agreement and the conviction that these people (the victims and their families) deserve compensation, they deserve peace and they do not deserve wars in the courts. It's time to repair all the damage they've suffered, it's justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. I guess there won't be any time to answer, so we'll go to the vote. The bill's on the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white; 1; abstation, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u9	The legal proposition, therefore, concerning the production of a composition, is approved for the victims of the amianto. No vote description... Second point on the subject list: "Provide the bill of law made by the legislatures to change the 3/2015 Act on the Housing Act. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the documentation where you've been disoriented. We shall therefore, without reading, proceed to dispute. Side shift? Who's got to participate? Side shift? Nobody else? Nobody else? From EH collect, Mr. Mazzu. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u10	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President and chief physician, and to the people who have come to see the discussions of good days. First, and considering that we have a proposition to change a law, and that this law was introduced recently, I think we ought to give an explanation, why we present this legal proposition. And this bill of law is represented by the fact that a problem has been introduced when the law entered into force, and the question was created when the Housing Act was made by the Law itself, but it has increased by the interpretation of the Government, that is, by the will of the Government to make the restrictions which it has expressed for us. And I'll explain. So far, to pay for the housing expense, 300,000 people received an extra housing station. That was the only income that paid for the housing expense. With the law, and at the time of the restoration of the housing as a subjective right, a new economic preparation is established, and the regulation of this new preparation, as it was received in the law, but especially in the decree which the Government has foretold, the regulation or development of the Government, does not guarantee that all the persons who had hitherto collected this subjugation will be able to continue to collect it. Not that the citizens who make a new demand now, because regulation changes, because conditions change, for worse, in our opinion. That, as the first explanation. But I have to explain with this that we are not saying that the Housing Law is a bad Law, because it is not for us, because we are still in need of that law now. Besides, when 85,000 units in the Euskal Autonomy are empty and registered to Houseland, they claim the right of housing when they're named 900,000 people. It is plain, therefore, that a law is necessary to subvert this condition. A law which prescribes the exact measures of occupying empty housing. And this is what was done in this law with so many other things, that the precise instruments may be occupied by an empty house. For example, by setting a canon, by setting a mandatory rent, and by setting it to remove the use in the latter, the necessary measures for us, as private property cannot be above fundamental rights. Besides, the remedy established by the Spanish Government before the Constitutional Court has shown us that we have invented the law, because it is the principal argument of this appeal that we attack the right of private property with this law; And unfortunately, in our country, even here, and the complicity of public powers, and in some cases with the direct intervention of public powers, it has become the product of speculation. And to turn this situation around, in order to subvert that situation, it was necessary to establish a law that prescribed specific tools over the vacant housing, which is what we did with the law. We therefore continue to defend the necessity of this law, and continue to think that it is necessary to change the present state. But this does not mean that all things are well, and when it has been introduced in force we have found that it has produced some defects in certain collectiveities. In fact, a good law, but with some mistakes. The defects which could easily be solved, if there were any will on the government's side, but it is clear that in the additional preparation of the housing, and in the new economic preparation which the law produces, the will of the government has been; reducing rights. If the law can't afford to offer a housing right to enjoy the housing at that moment, it allows these people to receive a economic preparation. The problem arises that in order to regulate this new preparation, and to regulate any additional housing station which now exists, the new economic preparation must be developed through a decree which is stated in the law. In fact, the government had all the options in a new regulation to receive the same regulations or conditions which are now to regulate the additional housing station, but not to apply the reductions in the procession of decree for the bad change of conditions. And yes, we know and are conscious, because we were here, by giving the government a direct command that we had received a proposition as just as recently as possible, in order to ensure that this subject is not a reduction in regulating it, but we feel that we do not trust the Government in this matter. They didn't want this housing law, and they'll do everything that's in their hands to stop applying it, or when they apply it to them to question the law itself. And they can fill out another law or not. It would be no other proposal than the first, which they do not observe, and unfortunately it will not be the last. That's why we want a legal proposition to solve the problem from the origin. What we propose with this legal proposal is for the moment that we live together with an additional housing force and a new economic housing force. To leave one as it is now, connected with RGI, and subject to social areas; and the other, new, connected with the subjective right of the housing, and with a new regulation. Together, but not compatible, as it is logical. We know that additional preparation had been once created by the aid of a subsidy created by the housing problem in a commercial manner, but you will allow me to agree that this commercial problem has not been solved at all. We made a law, of course, but at this moment the housing in the Euskal Autonomy Eris is still a commercial problem, so it hasn't been solved, and we think it has all the sense to be able to have an additional housing station that existed for the time being, so that there's no more problems to produce, so that the people who are in serious trouble at this moment can get the housing. And thus we avoid other questions, under conditions which are not required to receive additional preparation at the present day, and which, if applied, would be restrictions. For example, some conditions were contained in the law: that there must be four years of preparation under the name of homeway, and not at the present time the demand for an extra housing station to be registered only three years old. It is not required that there should be four years in the House, in this case there should be a problem for a collective demand to exclude from the new housing station, for example, non-papers, or even for a collective divorce or divorce. These questions and conditions could be abolished in the decree. They were received in the law, but the law used to say, "until we made a new decree." What we have seen is that when the Government has announced that its new decree was received in the same way. And we believe that, if applied, it will be a reduction to certain specific collectives without doubt. There are other problems with the new application, or with the new economic preparation that is received, in order to receive this preparation, because the escuteur must be registered only on the way homeway. And that can have its logic in the theory, begging for rent, not property. The problem is, we've known the reality of what we've been dealing with is that we've been registered at the head of the building, because our villages didn't make their rental official housing. In my country, for instance, 25 rents have been made for the past 20 years. So when we gave the name of the house, we were in charge of rent and property, because there was hardly any chance of getting a public apartment in the rent. It is therefore a question, without doubt, that, when it is now asked, it is only by the name of rent to be given to us. And lastly, because it is a new regulation to new requests, or to those who are to renew additional housing duties, and when they come to renew this preparation, if it be applied to them, they may lose that right. In fact, the billing of laws which we propose goes to the original in order to solve the problem. It's a road. Others are, that the decree should be made with other conditions, but at this moment we see that this method, which we propose, is most effective to avoid reductions, in this case, in the area of social subsidies, in order to pay the rent, in order to prevent the reductions of a single income of several persons. Decree, as I have said before, if it be drawn under other conditions, so much diminution can be avoided. Yes, we allow that to be so, but if we accept our bill of law, we avoid restrictions for those who now charge additional housing stations, and have the right to collect them, and then we can either fight or argue with the state under which the new decree should be drawn, but at least not from the beginning to a loss of rights. Hence we think this way, the suggestion of change of the law, is of the most effective, and we are ready to discuss how the decree of the Government is drawn to discuss this new economic housing station at the time of discussion, but for the time being, not to become co-compliant, but to make a new economic preparation, which exists by the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u11	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. If you turn to the counter shift, who'll participate in it? Not even on the counter shift, right? Okay. Well, we'll go to the vote. The debate is ended, whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 20; the contrary, 37; the whites, 0; abstaining, 17th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u12	The law proposition was therefore ignored. Next, we'll go to the vote. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselor. EH Bildu reminded us in the justification of his initiative that the Housing Act, adopted only 11 months ago, recognizes the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of a decent and adequate housing, and that the competent Basque public administrations may comply with this right of access by offering for rent a protected housing or even free housing with the appropriate rent or fee for each case and, in case of lack of housing or accommodation and of a subsidiary nature, by offering an economic benefit. EH Bildu reminded us that, in addition to the economic benefit created by the Housing Act, there is a supplementary housing benefit, which would enable citizens with limited resources to meet housing-related expenses. And EH Bildu pointed out that the second additional provision of the law does not specify how the existing supplementary housing benefit and the economic benefit created by the same law will be integrated. EH Bildu pointed out that these doubts were clarified by the Budget Act, the seventh additional provision of which states that the supplementary benefit scheme would be in force until the regulations provided for in the Housing Act on the introduction of a system of economic benefits came into force. Thus, when the statutory provisions of the law are in force, no additional housing benefits will be granted. This is what EH Bildu's proposed law wanted to change, so that both benefits coexist and are complementary. Although it is clearly legitimate for EH Bildu to put forward what he has now proposed to us, we do not think that they are correct or that we are being modified, that is to say, the specific content he proposes, or the fact that he is proposing to amend a law adopted recently, adopted just 11 months ago and after long months of debate. We do not share this amendment tabled by EH Bildu, a matter which we consider to be settled with the adoption of the Housing Act, which has not been in force for a year, and also with the compromise adopted on 14 April, which was signed by the Socialist Group and a server. Therefore, this matter, we think, has already been discussed and is perfectly clear. We can remember, in any case, what the compromise that we signed by the Socialist and UPyD Group said and which was approved by this Parliament just a month ago. We urged the Government to "guarantee the right to access the stable legal occupation of decent and adequate housing to those who lack the necessary economic resources to obtain one and, subsidiaryly, through economic benefits". We also urged the Government "to ensure that neither compliance with the budget law nor the regulatory developments of the law will be able to entail, in terms of requirements or amounts, any cuts in the rights recognized so far, and, in any case, the decree that develops this aspect will have to ensure the confluence and integration of the supplementary housing provision and the new economic housing provision envisaged, not merely the replacement of one another". Finally, we also called for "priority to the location of the beneficiary families or living units in the public rental park dwellings managed by the Government in relation to the allocation of an economic benefit". We also urged the Government "that the decree on the development of the subjective right of access to the legal occupation of a decent and adequate housing should establish three years as the maximum length of time in the status of an exclusively rental claimant" in the relevant register, "that under no circumstances the income requirements payable to the beneficiaries of the subjective right to a decent housing should be higher than those specified in the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act for obtaining the GIR", "that within three months it should submit a detailed study on the impact" that it has, that it will have or that it has had this Housing Act in Basque society, and finally "that within three months it should develop a plan for the housing owned by the Basque Government that takes more than one empty year to be destined for social rent". We therefore consider this to be a perfectly settled matter. It is not a question of changing the law now, 11 months later, but of strictly complying with it and also complying with the Government's compliance with the content of the transaction we signed just a month ago. I therefore believe that the aim is to bring together the two economic benefits, both the supplementary housing benefit and the economic benefit set out in the Housing Act, which come together and which under no circumstances will there be any cuts. As I say, we think this is a settled matter, and it is not a good idea to try to amend a law 11 months after it has been passed. Therefore, what we do is to urge the Government to strictly comply with the law and also to comply with the transactional adopted by this Parliament about a month ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u14	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Miss Llanos from the Popular Party. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, once again discussing the Housing Act, and, as I said the last time we discussed it, and I want to reiterate it here today, "And what I'm going to round you up, brunette," because we have said it many times, it is true that a housing law is necessary, but not any housing law, and the one that was passed in this House was a bad law, I want to repeat it again, it was a very bad law, and proof are all the initiatives that are being made in this regard to try to improve the mistakes I had. A law, as I have said many times, full of demagogy and slogans, with many expectations that can be frustrated. And not to want this law, to say that this law is bad is not to say that we do not want the right that everyone has to a decent home to be guaranteed, but what we want to say is that this law is not guaranteed. Because it is not enough to recognize the subjective right, but it is necessary to have sufficient financial resources, and so the law itself comes to say that the satisfaction of the right will not be done for everyone at first, but will be done in a step-by-step way, and that in the face of the lack of housing for all it will be possible to replace the provision of housing with an economic benefit, an economic benefit whose requirements are set out in the law itself. If it did not agree with those requirements, that law should not have been adopted, but it did indicate the requirements that such a benefit had to have. And, in addition, also in the Budgets for the financial year 2016, in that law, a provision sets out the amount; then, if the amount is not sufficient, neither should support be given to those Budgets. Well, in that debate, in the debate in which the Housing Act was discussed, this group and other groups already showed the contradiction that was to arise because they were going to coexist at the same time with two benefits, the supplementary housing benefit and the benefit regulated by the law itself, and that they had different requirements. But, in addition, the law itself provides that this supplementary housing benefit must disappear and must be replaced by that subjective right to housing, and in the event of no housing, as I said, by an economic benefit. And what is intended with the initiative is that the two benefits continue over time. What is intended with the initiative is that what was conceived from the very beginning – which is the supplementary housing benefit – as an exceptional measure until the development of housing policies that would enable citizens to guarantee decent and adequate housing becomes ultimately. That is to say, there are two perceptors: on the one hand, the perceptors who have the right to housing, the subjective right to housing, and then the perceptors of the supplementary housing benefit, when I believe that the very conception of the supplementary housing benefit..., which was never, was never conceived like this. Therefore, we believe that what is being pursued by this law, in addition to being something that was never on the table at any time, that is to maintain in time and indefinitely the supplementary housing benefit, does not achieve the objectives either, because the proponent has spoken of what it is about to ensure that the financial benefit is sufficient, but that is not achieved by this law, that is not achieved by this law. This is achieved by the Government establishing that the supplementary benefit that replaces the housing that has to be made available to citizens is sufficient, is sufficient, is not achieved by the law, which means that these two housing benefits will survive over time. That is why this group has voted against, because, as I said, this law is a bad law, it is a law that was born with a lot of legal uncertainty and that intends to transfer that legal uncertainty now with the amendment proposed by the EH Bildu group. We believe that what should be done is, of course – now it no longer gives time, but in the next legislature – to make a total and absolute rethink of this Housing Act and to adopt a housing law that guarantees access for all Basques to decent and adequate housing, but from a realistic position without populism. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u16	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u17	Thank you, President. Well, explanation of vote. We, as we know, have abstained from the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And the explanation we have to give is as follows. We could not, of course, vote against your proposal, because we do not forget that you took ours into consideration at the time and were a nuclear piece together with Union, Progress and Democracy and our own group to illuminate the law. But neither could we vote in favour. We could not vote in favour, Mr Maeztu, because we believe it is a mistake, we sincerely believe it. In the justification of its proposal, as in the explanation it has given here, they are based on the idea that the Government does not actually have the will to comply with the law and that it therefore makes interpretations which, in its view, lead to the need or requirement to make such a change. We believe that this is not a sufficient argument because the Government, with or without it, will have to comply with the law. Another thing is that it is true, being in the royal position it occupies, that it can make forced interpretations, can make twisting interpretations or can make interpretations that are not in accordance with the spirit of the law. That is true, to such an extent that, while the Government on its Irekia page says that it does not consider it reasonable to make changes, on the same day that it did not take into account the same, the press was saying the opposite; it is therefore difficult to know where the Government's line is going. What we believe is that an artificial problem has been created with this draft decree, which, by the way, is not new legislation, is not being applied; as the Budgets Act says, the previous criterion, that of the CPV, which has more favourable requirements and conditions of access than the transitional provision, which, as has been recalled a few weeks ago, took place a debate a few weeks ago and our group already proposed directly that it was not necessary, that we did not see it justified to make modifications, because, at the outset, what it does is to give reason to all those who oppose it, to all those who enshrine the principle of property as an absolute right over all things. For them it is indeed a bad law, and that approach you make ends up giving them reason. We believe that the law is far from perfect, like any human creation; they all have a vocation to be modified in time, but they need, logically, a walk, they need a stretch to know what the appropriate modifications are. You proposed it in terms of urgency, in terms of an express change. If that had been the case, we said it at the time, we would not have opposed it, but this really required consensus that does not occur, and therefore it will lead to a long process, in short, as you already know, for the modification, and I suppose that, in passing, there will be more than one group that will want to introduce other elements. Of course, this legislature, which is in the final stage, has little left to contribute to all these issues; I suppose that in the next legislature, with other majorities, with other political budgets, perhaps this proposal and many others that improve the law can be carried out, without a doubt. What we believe is that, in the terms in which it is drafted, it has a lot of work to do, it has a whole series of regulations that can be carried out without undermining the acquired rights and being faithful and loyal to the spirit of the law. For all these reasons, Mr Maeztu, we have neither opposed nor voted in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u18	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians. Mr. fountain, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. The US American People have been introduced to change the Housing Act by collecting the Eubertarian Afficiaries vote for their non-combination, for the reasons I shall hereafter explain. First, our team agrees with the criteria given by the government on this subject. We agree with the reasons the government has given us that these reasons are perfectly reasonable. The reasons given by the Government are summarized as follows: that the proposed amendment of the law is inappropriate, since the situation it seeks to regulate is already resolved. The second is that it is not reasonable to maintain two separate benefits, the supplementary housing allowance and the subjective housing right, to satisfy the same social need, especially when one of them, the first, was established on a transitional basis until the other came into force. Thirdly, it tells us that the mere change in the allocation of functions between the managing bodies of both services does not solve the problem in itself. And fourthly, that the current regulation does not provide for any right to the collectors of the PCV. But not only do we endorse the reasons of the Government, but we will also add some of our own. First of all, we will say about the relationship between the CPV and the subjective housing law that we are discussing here today, which is only the second part of the debate that we had a month ago, as has already been explained, and to him I refer. Bildu presents us with a proposal for a law which, in our opinion, lacks the most elementary common sense, since it does not explain the reasons that justify his proposal or what he intends with the legal amendment. It proposes that we regulate the issue of the existence of these two benefits in a way that is already established in our legal system. It appears that the proposer seeks to maintain the supplementary housing allowance and to be incompatible with the subjective housing right. However, the proposal does not make the slightest effort to grasp the two subjective rights existing in Euskadi to materialize the right of access to a housing: the derivative of the regulations, as I say, regulated in the PCV, and the corresponding, the derivative of the fundamental tool to fix the housing policy in Euskadi, which is the Housing Act. In spite of the lack of analysis, he presents us with a proposal in his opinion that is very strong and proposes three aspects: firstly, to maintain the two subjective rights as they are regulated, to ensure that the management of the subjective right is carried out by the Department of Housing and to ensure that the Department of Employment has the competence to manage the CVP. Certainly, I do not think that the proposers have made a careful reading of the Housing Act or almost, I would dare to say, of their own proposal, because this proposal does not contribute at all to the solution of the problem they raise, which is to eliminate the risk situation arising from the entry into force of the Housing Act for those collectives who perceive the CVP but who do not meet the requirements for access to subjective law. The solution proposed by Bildu, we understand that it is more aesthetic than analytical, because it does nothing more than show the lightness with which it was analyzed and adopted in this House less than a year ago some of the fundamental issues of housing policy contained in the aforementioned Housing Act. There were no arguments about the relationship between the CPV and the subjective right of housing, as I say, a year ago, even on its economic side, and with this proposal it follows in the same line of not making arguments and making proposals that have no basis more than pure occurrence. We agree with the proposing group that, in fact, the Housing Act did not provide for the proper integration of the ECV aid scheme and the subjective right to housing, but we also said that earlier. We are tired of highlighting this problem both in the papers and in committee, and even in the plenary session. Our position on this is reflected in the logbooks, and whoever is interested, who comes to them. In order to solve the fundamental problem of compatibility of existence, it was necessary to establish a legislative provision, namely the provision in the seventh additional provision of the Budget Act for the year 2016, and it has established a transitional regime guaranteeing the validity of the CPV until the regulatory development of the subjective right to housing is approved. Consequently, the regulation made by this seventh provision of the Budget Act for 2016 does not eliminate or reduce any rights of the holders of the CPV, contrary to what Mr Maeztu has said. In our view, therefore, this is an issue that has already been resolved, and therefore Bildu does not agree with the formula intended to claim – the redundancy is worth it – that subjective housing law is managed by the Department of Housing and the CPV by the Department of Employment, because it does not know the administrative structure of the Autonomous Community itself, because, as everyone knows, in the Government there are not two different departments, but only one, the Department of Employment and Social Policy, created in 2012 by the lehendakari and attributed to both areas of action. And the fact that they are managed by one or another administrative unit within the same department is irrelevant. The important thing is the substantive regulation, in short, that the situation that Bildu intends to regulate is already resolved. And to your proposal, Mr. Maeztu, although you are not here right now – yes, I'm sorry, I didn't see you – I was telling you that the proposal you have put before us lacks both the correct solution and the demagogy in your speech. So, we're not gonna protect the proposal that Collect has presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Altarball. Third point in theme list: "EtH Collect and Basque Socialists in the parliamental billing of law, the activity of the public and private preparation of Euscal Autonomy Er member. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, and that's why we're going to argue. Who's going to participate in the next round? Side shift? Basque Socialists. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u21	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief officers, good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen, you smell the election, you feel it. Only something like this can explain that the Government has come to recognize what some of us have been repeating with so much effort as the Executive is trying to disguise: that whoever so much claims self-government does not know how to use self-government, because, if he knew how much he really knows how much he has to act with his own powers, he would not have needed this bill, we would not have needed it; we would have already had a bill for its urgent and read-only processing. In this House, the groups have shown our responsibility, especially the socialists, and we would have facilitated the adoption of this law. That is what we have been insistently demanding since the Rajoy government, which was not yet in office, launched the last of its decrees, that is, the one that restricts the functions of nursing. A decree that the professionals, through the Bureau of the Nursing Profession, defined as a text that represents an unprecedented betrayal in the history of democracy. It was modified at last hour, with night and lightness, by the procedure of A speaking with B, B speaking with C, C speaking with Rajoy, Rajoy speaking with the minister, modification of the decree the next morning. Of this decree, these same professionals said that it goes against the interests of patients, the health reality and common sense. To that end, this Government responded as is its custom, throwing balloons out and without assuming what can be done with our own skills from Euskadi. The councilman, as is his custom, very harsh, a lot of invasion from Madrid, a lot of recognition of the profession and announce a resource that was the last of all that have been presented by the different autonomous communities while others – the opposition – demanded him to act, we told him to fill with our self-government the void that the decree left. And hence his response of "We are studying it, there are problems and doubts" and an instruction through Osakidetza that generated and that allowed an increase of tension among the different professionals concerned, today already conflict between doctors and nursing professionals, that is, balloons out, nothing resolute. The opposition, instead, from minute one, since we knew the approval of the decree, we worked to dignify the profession of nurse, to incorporate the new roles that their current preparation and training would allow them to perform. In this sense we were socialists, and EH Bildu wanted to share with us also the need to act without further delay, with a law that gives legal certainty to the daily practice of nursing. This is what we are trying to do with our proposal, because our Statute, in its article 18, empowers us with exclusive competence to regulate health services, and in this regard allows us to regulate the actions of nurses by cooperating in the protocolized follow-up of certain treatments with medicines, also to regulate their ability to use and indicate medicines not subject to medical prescription through protocols and guides of care practice, and to indicate and prescribe health products included in the pharmaceutical provision of the health system of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. That is, we can regulate the specific actions in which nurses should perform their functions, as always, by cooperating in the protocolized follow-up of certain drug treatments. And we say it well, in cooperation. Nursing professionals do not intend to supply the doctor, they have never done so. Nor here, with this regulation, do we want the nurse to replace the doctor's skills. It is the doctor who must make the diagnosis and fix the treatment, but, as has been explained, the decree of December prevents performing tasks as usual as the cure of ulcers with ointments, the vaccination of children in schools or the administration of oxytocin to midwives. To regulate these functions is something that, if we can do it today, we could have done it by the date of the December decree, we could have had it planned throughout the past year while the decree was being drafted and the warnings were being lit; we could have done it, but the Government did not. He crossed arms and care that has a well-known history, care that we already knew how Rajoy spends them in health matters. Of course, we Socialists had it well in mind. See Decree 16/2012, the so-called health cuts, which during the Patxi López government had to suffer from this re-centralizing anxiety regarding social services, rights. The difference is that that government that preceded them and that they so little like to quote always offered answers to alleviate these attacks. The Royal Decree 16/2012 on health cuts was answered by the Socialist Executive with a decree that was in force several months, avoiding cuts, until the Constitutional Court partially suspended it in relation to the copayo, a matter that has not yet been resolved by the Constitutional Court. Since then, in Euskadi we have devised another temporary formula, compensations for those reposes to families with fewer resources. A formula that strongly rejected the PNV and the Urkullu government, showing doubts about our legal capacities to do so, because this government always doubts its own competences, always. That is why we have taken the initiative once again. We could not leave in the hands of this department a planning that would have ended up sleeping the dream of the righteous, because we have already seen that all the plans of this executive look to 2020, and we could not afford to let the time pass. So we read the Statute, we saw what we could do without creating insecurity, and we put forward the proposal that is going to be dealt with today. And we want there to be no sticks on the wheels to process it. We hope that the group supporting the Government will not exaggerate in its requests for extensions of time, not because they are not in its right, because the amendments have already been made by the Government. Surprisingly, the criterion given to this House contains the amendments that it is going to make, which the Government itself suggests should be made. It is not customary for the Government to do so, because its criterion is to argue why it is favourable or unfavourable, not to indicate how the law should be amended, which in any case falls within the competence of this House and not of the Government. But, as I said at the beginning, elections are coming and in this Community there are about 16,000 professionals who are at the moment in the limbo of the nursing prescription and who are voting. Well, I call for this sudden discovery of competence and self-government to be reflected in your attitude in the few weeks ahead, and allow me the doubts, because, if the objections are those raised by the Government's view, we could have managed this issue months ago to bring a proposal or a project by a single urgency and reading procedure. They could have done it, but they didn't ask. That is why, if you now come to our initiative, I propose that we start the dialogue for this scenario of agreement and that, since you have expressed your willingness to allow dates in July to pass laws on which there is scope for agreement, if it is not possible in June, it be done in July and we approve this issue. It's up to you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u23	Good morning, everyone. Before the attacks of the Spanish government and the centralizer acts, EH Collect will not remain folded. We're willing to do everything that's in our hands and destroy our responsibilities. We have something to do in front of the continual boils in Madrid, in opposition to the impossibilities that upset our everyday. And if we do nothing, and this government takes no initiative, the message to the people is from this government, that this legislature is of no use; that this government, which is said to have no resolution, and no resolution in the state of our society; and that in the presence of these decisions our people are deprived of their protection, because the law says so. The law [is] always according to law, And the law [is] higher and lower, As if there were nothing to be done in the sight of the laws, As though the law had fallen from heaven. Well, if that's the attitude, don't you think it'd be best to dissolve this parliament, government, dissolve it? So we could save a few coins and rule them directly from Madrid, and then, without a mediar, without any means. And you'll forgive us, but that's not our attitude. That's not what we want. We believe in our rights, whether they be historical or not. We believe in our independence in our self-portrait. And we want to make our decisions for the good of our people, even for our health professionals, who are of the same profile as they are. Therefore, seeing that the Government of EAJ took no initiative, the agreement taken by this whole Union received at the fifth point (which has not been used by sheriffs to employ all legal and regulative legal methods), our own health system, public or private, and so on, a long time after the decree, which I have discussed in the previous discussions, and especially for these reasons, and especially for the sake of which our professional health nurse in the medical world has been protected, we decided to make our responsibility, this law, and we proposed to the party, and, in fact, to thank him. and if this government does not take it, it is a question of abolishing political government, and of resisting the Decree 954/2015. We can't leave that responsibility behind the government staff. That is to say, what we cannot demand from the workers to disobey before this decree, and from us, members of the legislature, from the Government. And that's what they've been doing to them so far. It is time therefore for this government to take responsibility and to face Madrid, to make our own laws, to give our own steps in our independence, to give proper answers to our people. If we had been in the government, we would have made a decree, as Katalunia agreed with the nurses' agents, to make a decree to Madrid. But as we are not in the Government, we have done what is in our hands, and have brought a legal proposition to give our medical professionals an opportunity to face Madrid and to give answers to the people in the daily. So, we've brought in that bill of law, and I'm not going to go into the contents today, but I'd like to explain the main axis and the principal contents that this law contains. But I would like to point out, before we begin to explain these axes and their contents, that we are ready to argue, conversation, and agreement, to open the gates, and to improve this law among them all. Well, I'll go into the axes and content. The principal object is the safety and benefit of the sick, and for that reason this legal proposition determines the specific activities of nurses in the Pharmatic preparation of the EAE medical system. We have an 18th article in Guernica State, which enables us to do so. This legal proposal has a collective work on the integration and help of multiple discipline processes, to avoid dividing or overwriting the help processes given by different titles and specialists. He collects and develops nurses' functions, not only in public health systems, either in public or in private, and outside the health system, because nurses also act in other quarters. This law is founded on the direct solution of the European Parliament, which is the foundation of it. The health department also receives what has to be done: it also defines the direction of protocol, clinical practice, and the existence of which parameters these should be moved, and then it defines each of the professionals to be able to adapt to their own field. It's well defined by a doctor's role and a nurse's, with all her guarantees. This is, in short, what this legal proposition contains and is about to be discussed. But what we want is as fast as we can... and we would be grateful to the argument to receive the support of the rest of our party to-day, and above all to give our people a suitable answer and to give our nurses that legal protection. But this turn, before we finish our shift, I'd like to make some remarks about the policy sent by the government, I'd like to give our opinion. In the government dictatorship, it's in the government's judgment... I'm sorry, this is the first point that the nurses are supposed to be acresed in their studies, and what we say is that nurses already have their training, they have their formation, and then there's no need to do it again. What we say then is, that if the new treatments are produced, as with the rest of the professionals, their formation must be permanent throughout life, but what is not, is to be again acresd; so that we do not share that principle which is received in the judgment. On the other hand, we do not make this bill of law to be placed under the Decree of the 954/2015 king, but in our independence we make our steps to the auto-organization. Then, on the other hand, our intention in this law has been to regulate the practice of nurses in public or in private throughout the entire medical system. We're not just limited to public health system. And if this has not been made clear in the legal proposition, and if the Government has not rightly understood, we have no difficulty in improving and improving it. On the other hand, the government mentions that we have forgotten a decree from 2009 and that we have not received this decree in our bill of law. We have reviewed all the rules from top to bottom and found no decree for 2009. We may therefore demand of the Government, if so be so, to make clear the determination of this decree; for even the government does not explain the nature of this decree in its dictatorship. And, in conclusion, it is mentioned that before the law entered into force, several regulations must be made. Well, let them do it. That's what we're for, isn't it? We're going to work. The government has to do their jobs and we have to do our jobs. We're not here to keep our hands crossed. So let's go on, let's do our homework and give our nurses some protection, after all, so that the villagers may have the proper health service to receive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing on the other round, Mrs Garrido, representing the Basque Potula Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u25	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, congressmen. We are again discussing this subject in this legislature. We've discussed two illegal proposals, and today we're presenting a legitimate proposition between the EH Collectors and the Social Party together. The popular party will vote negative, and for the following reasons. First I want to mention in the name of the Pionarian Party the role of nurses in our health system because they play important roles in every minor process. Well, I wanted to start this intervention, before I went into position against the initiative, the proposed law proposed by the Socialist Party and EH Bildu, a proposal for a joint law, I wanted, as we have done on other occasions, to highlight the role of nursing, its indispensable role in health, in Basque health and also in the whole care process. We believe that its importance is reflected in specific areas, such as primary care, reception of patients, all that has to do with health promotion and prevention, specialized care, rehabilitation processes, palliative care, care for chronic patients, continuity of care. So much so, and so has the People's Party, that since the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality throughout the 10th Legislature, multiple agreements have been reached with the nursing community. I'll allow myself to quote some of them. Agreements of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality with the General Council of Nursing and the SATSE union in July 2013, within the framework of the pact for health, human resources and clinical management. The agreement on the creation of the state registry of health professionals by Royal Decree 640/2014 of 25 July. Also the agreement on the establishment of the homogeneous catalogue of equivalences of the categories of statutory health service personnel, by Royal Decree 184/2015 of 13 March. Agreement on the regulation of accreditation and advanced accreditation diplomas by Royal Decree 639/2015 of 10 July. Agreement for the establishment of accreditation requirements of multiprofessional teaching units for the training of specialists in family and community nursing by Order 861/2013 of 9 May. Constitution of the Professional Forum together with doctors in March 2015, with the aim of contributing to the improvement of the quality of care and the conditions of the exercise of these professions. Preparation of a biosecurity guide for health professionals on 29 January. On the basis of the actual decree that concerns us today also in this House for the debate, in particular, of the initiative, of the proposal for a law presented by the EH Bildu group and the Socialist Party, Decree 954/2015 of 23 October, regulating the indication, use and authorization of the dispensation of medicinal products and sanitary products for human use by nurses, it must be said that this is a competition already provided for in the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products and also provided for in the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantee and Rational Use of Medicinal Products and Sanitary Products, Royal Decree 1/2015 of 24 July. We have to say, as we have repeated on several occasions, that with this royal decree the capacity to prescribe prescription drugs remains with doctors, dentists and podiatrists in the sphere of their competence and in the scope of the Guarantees Act to which I have just referred, and that the powers of nurses, the nursing community, have been assigned in two types of actions: the power to autonomously indicate, use and authorize the dispensation of non-prescription drugs and health products by means of a dispensation order, and the power to indicate, use and authorize certain prescription drugs once the application of protocols and guidelines of clinical practice and joint treatment agreed by the collegial organizations of doctors and nurses and validated by the Quality Agency of the National Health System is regulated. This faculty shall be monitored by the healthcare professional who has determined the clinical indication guide protocol, for the purpose of its suitability, as well as for the safety of the process and the effectiveness of the treatment. Therefore, this royal decree responds to a historical demand of professionals and forms part of the agreements for the sustainability and quality of the national health system, signed between the Ministry of Health, the General Council of Nursing and the SATSE union in July 2013, which regulate both the development of protocols and guides of clinical practice and the accreditation of professionals. With regard to the elaboration and validation of the protocols, the body responsible will be the Standing Commission on Pharmacy of the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, in which the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality as well as the Autonomous Communities, the official bodies of doctors and nurses, the mutual societies and officials and the Ministry of Defence will be represented. The functions will be as follows: to establish the general criteria and the minimum structure and contents of all protocols, to establish the criteria for their evaluation, to establish the list of medicinal products and groups of medicinal products to be included in the protocols, and to promote the protocols considered to be of particular interest to the national health system. In any case, the protocols will be developed with technical and scientific criteria, and with multidisciplinary participation of doctors and nurses. With regard to the requirements for the accreditation of professionals, which will be granted by the General Directorate of Vocational Ordination of the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality, are the following: to be in possession of the title of Graduate of Nursing for the field of general care, in the case of specialized care the title of Specialist Nursing will also be required, and to have acquired the necessary skills to indicate, use and authorize the supply of medicines through the corresponding training program for general or specialized care. The procedure, which will obviously be initiated at the request of the person concerned, will have a maximum period of six months, and the accreditation will have effect throughout the State. With regard to the qualifications, nurses with degrees from Technical Health Assistant, University Diploma in Nursing or Specialist Nurse who have not acquired the competences on the indication, use and authorization of the dispensation of medicinal products from sanitary devices for human use at the time of the entry into force of this decree shall have a maximum period of five years to acquire them. These are the forecasts provided for in the legislation. It is also stipulated that, on an exceptional basis, nurses who, until the entry into force of the Royal Decree, have developed functions for the indication, use and authorization of medicinal products could access the accreditation by applying with the corresponding certificate of the Health Service in which the person concerned has acquired the professional competences indicated. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this decree has been promulgated, issued, on the basis of the exclusive competence of the State under article 149.1.16, which states that the State has exclusive competence over the following matter: the basis and general coordination of health, legislation on pharmaceutical products. The first final provision of this royal decree, speaking of the title of jurisdiction, clearly states that this royal decree is made under the provisions of article 149.1.16 of the Constitution, which I have just read to you, which confers on the State exclusive competence in the matter of bases and general coordination of health. Under this competition title, this royal decree has been issued for this specific regulation. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about exclusive competence. Obviously, each Administration and each Government can..., as autonomous governments have done and as the Basque Government has done, have requested the precautionary suspension, specifically of the precept of Article 3.2, and, moreover, that suspension has been denied. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, this is the situation as to the competence to be able to issue a decree of these characteristics, therefore, in accordance with the legislation and the legality envisaged. Efforts have been made to improve the legal and safety of nursing staff. We, of course, consider this to be very positive, because it certainly contributes to improving the legal certainty of professionals and patients throughout the care process. Issues that were not previously regulated have been regulated. The regulation of indication, use and authorization, drug dispensation was a historic demand. And it is also regulated, as I have made reference to reviewing the content of the royal decree, the elaboration of protocols and guides of clinical practice for the accreditation of professionals. These professionals – the nursing professionals – will now enjoy, after accreditation, the competence to use and indicate medicines not subject to that prescription of health products that was not now recognized, which until now, before the regulation of the said royal decree, was not foreseen. And the competence for indication and use in medicinal products subject to medical prescription is established taking into account the safety of the process and of the patient, and is protocolized and requires the treatment instructions that should be included in the clinical history, according to Law 41/2002, of the Patient's Autonomy. Therefore, the scope of action of each of the professionals interacting in public health is absolutely defined. If he wanted to refer to other issues that have also been the subject of confusion by the interested party, and above all to some political formations and some health spokespersons, such as vaccination, because when a patient needs to be vaccinated by personal exposure to an epidemiological risk, i.e. a trip, for example, to a foreign country where a risk can be identified, he is a professional with competence under Article 79.1 of Royal Decree 1/2015, the consolidated text of the Law on Guarantees and Rational Use of Medicines, usually, obviously, a doctor, who prescribes a vaccine, who will administer it by a nurse, since it is a drug subject to prescription and therefore precise as it is subject to prescription, of this prescription. And another very different thing is a vaccination campaign, such as the flu, in which, in the face of an epidemiological risk, an instruction is given by the health authority accordingly. And when the population is vaccinated as part of a vaccination campaign, such as the flu, and the medical authority acts as a result of the decision of the health authority for an epidemiological risk that has already been detected and for the sake of preserving medical health, no prior diagnosis is required, since there are already the most exposed cuts to that risk clearly identified. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, with the said royal decree, the nursing collective will now enjoy, after accreditation, the competence of use and indication of medicines not subject to medical prescription and of sanitary devices that so far were not regulated or recognized. Therefore, the nursing community is given greater legal certainty in the face of what has been tried to say. The scope of action of both professionals is absolutely defined and a clear attempt has been made to address an existing legal gap, to improve the legal certainty of all professionals and patients throughout the care process, regulating aspects that were not regulated. I do have to say that, as I have said throughout this presentation and I have said on other occasions, there is the possibility of bringing an action. The remedies in which precautionary suspensions have been requested, in particular, have been raised, and, as was said here by the representatives we have had the honour of hearing and people, of course, who know this subject, as were the nurses themselves, the nursing community, the doctors, only the suspension of article 3, paragraph 2, has been requested, and that suspension was denied by the Supreme Court. I would therefore like to say that the initiative of each autonomous community, of each entity, of each organization that wanted to safeguard certain interests, the defence of rights has been able to be exercised and, therefore, there are the courts to resolve and rule, and, in this regard, the precautionary suspensions that have been requested have been denied. But I believe that today two groups, going hand in hand, again, such as EH Bildu and the Socialist Party, present an absolutely demagogic initiative, because we are talking about exclusive competition. And, above all, I am very drawn to the attention that the Socialist Party has presented this initiative, because if the Socialist Party, a state-level party, does not agree with a specific regulation, as it may not agree with other regulations, which, by the way, Mr Patxi López has also appealed to it at the time, but we also saw what the courts have said in relation to the concrete regulation of the co-payment that was made, which also, obviously, was refused the request for the suspension..., but the Socialist Party, which, obviously, is a party that has the possibility of government, even if they are far away, in the Spanish Government and frustrated possibilities, as we saw in its attempts during the investiture sessions that were held a few months ago, what it has to do is, if it comes to the Government, to change things. But I find it absolutely demagogic to present an initiative here that is known to have no history, that it is known to have no competitive title; because EH Bildu, we already know where it is, but that the Socialist Party presents an initiative when it is known to have no competitive title and that we are talking about an exclusive competence of the State, because it also gives us a button on how things are going in the Socialist Party, in the Socialist Party of Euskadi, in the Socialist Party as a whole. It is an initiative, ladies and gentlemen, which has no route, and you know it, it has no route. And, of course, we clearly frame it in an attitude and in an electoral posture position, and I also think it is to deceive the citizens and I think it is to deceive the nursing community, because it is to frustrate expectations that you know clearly before presenting this initiative, that, by the way, you could have bothered to change some terminology, because I believe that it has been based on another initiative also presented by the Socialist Party, I mean that you have not bothered to correct some terminology and to adapt it to the terminology proper to our Autonomous Community. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, for all the reasons I have just said and argued, we will vote against the proposal for a law tabled by the Socialist Party and EH Bildu, EH Bildu and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u26	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Passing over to the answering shift, Basque Socialists. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u27	Madam President, if I may, from the seat, to reply briefly to the representative of the People's Party. His whole speech has been plagued with commonplaces, with a defense, with a debate that was not the one presented here today. We did not come to talk about the Royal Decree 954/2015, we came to talk about something else, we came to talk about a proposal for a law that has not been mentioned practically and to criticise the frustrated possibilities of the Socialist Party to govern in the face of the inability of the People's Party to govern. Okay, frustrated possibilities in the face of impossibility; that's, a little, the alternative, isn't it? I have heard of his intervention, of course, to the chaff and to places outside of all doubt and common. That's not what we're talking about. Anyway, I think Decree 954/2015 is answered by itself. Look, I'm going to read to you, that legal certainty that you say comes to give to the behavior of nurses and nurses. On the day of the commemoration of May 12 of the Basque Country Nursing, the three presidents of the Medical Colleges of Nursing have requested the repeal of this bad decree, which has only served to generate conflicts where they previously did not exist. Of course, you see legal certainty and resolution and resolve gaps that existed previously when all the other collectives, those involved and those responsible only see conflict, we only see problems for the professionals, to work as a team, and, of course, what we worry about in the end are greater problems for the patients, since they derive, because of the lack of the possibility of team collaboration between doctors and nurses and nurses, on larger waiting lists to care for the patients. Tell me where the decree is in the judgment of everyone else. Only you are the blind who do not see reality. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. From EH Collect, Mrs. Ubera. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u29	I don't know what reality the Popular Party lives in. Maybe we're the ones who don't live in reality, but we've seen it in this house too, and all the nurses' agents are here, and we've been told plainly that their daily experience has upset the rest of Madrid's reign. And, well, what happens to us in Madrid, well, we don't care if it doesn't work here, but we've seen that Madrid's action has upset the current routine. And we care about it and we have political responsibility. And if there be some who profess to create affairs in their everyday life politically, that is to say, instead of giving them the remedy, to the courts. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to give answers to our people, to defend our hands, to defend our self-growth, to defend our independence, and to advance our steps. And in this sense we have, with responsibilities, brought with us this legal proposition, because at the present time the health professionals are asking us to give answers to them, to give them legal protection. And because it's our responsibility, we took action. We've got the equipment. And if the government doesn't want to take action, we'll take it because we won't let Madrid do any harm to our people. If not, we have another alternative: Dissolve this law, and dissolve this government, and rule it from Madrid. Is that the self-interest that we defend? Is that to defend our rights, to work for the good of our people? Is that it? Well, not for us. We wish to make our decisions here, to give answers to our people. And they asked us to. That's what we've been asked to do. And they came to this house. And in that sense, we've been waiting, what the government did. Here, in a word, some measures were agreed. Some of them were brought together and others weren't, and all the nurses' agents were telling us plainly what they want: a legal protection. We are informed that they want conversation, agreement, and not only to resist this decree, but not only to appeals, but to receive other undertakings as long as it is repeated. Catalonia has taken it. She has made a decree that she agrees with the nurses' agents. We're not in the government, we can't make a decree. What was left to us? Get me a legal proposal. We brought it. And we'll get all the rest of the equipment because it's our responsibility and we're here to work and not to keep hands crossed. And Popular Party will know what he wants or look at Madrid or look at the Basque People. And if he wants to look at Madrid, maybe it's best to get out of this house.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mrs Garrido, your word is to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u31	Ubera andrera. I will tell you clearly what the Popular Party and the Basque Poptular Party want; what they want is to improve the quality of life of the Basques, of all the Basques, of all the inhabitants of the Basques, and to this end they prove not only the rules or changes of the rules which we encourage here, but rather the rules of laws which are directed at Madrid in order to improve the quality of the Basques. "And you put back the difficulties, and the proposals which you propose are lies and demagogues; for at last you know that they have no straight path, and that is to say lies and deceive the inhabitants. Mrs Ubera, I was clearly telling you that, of course, what we do from the People's Party, the People's Party in Madrid too, is to look at the interests of the Basques and also to ensure the sustainability of health, also in Euskadi; and, of course, I believe that you are weak in favour of Basque citizenship when you present initiatives that know that you have no path, that generate false expectations and that you are also absolutely demagogic. And the same for the Socialist Party, Mrs Roncal. The fact is that it also draws my attention because you are a doctor, I think the Euskadi Medical Union reminded you when you had the honour of appearing in this Parliament, which seemed to be a lie that a person – and with all the respect I have and which I obviously deserve – should raise the issues in relation to a regulation on which you should know the gaps and shortcomings that existed in the regulation up to that point. Of course, the Socialist Party in many areas does not know how to do things right, but, of course, in the area of health it has been chaos. There is the debt – and again I have to turn to Mr Zapatero – that left Mr Zapatero's governments with 16 billion debt in the national health system. And then they are wrong, because there are also the request for suspension and the regulation that was wanted by the co-sponsor and the government of Patxi López. The suspension was clearly denied...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u32	Silence. Silence.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u33	And, look, this copayo regulation – and you know it – set more just criteria, because a copayo was not established for the first time. The copayo, already existed the pharmaceutical copayo; what were established were criteria more fair according to the income, the degree of disease and the age. And do you know that with the governments of the Socialist Party the long-term unemployed paid 40% of the medicines? It was the People's Party Government that made the system much fairer, more equitable and more balanced, and the income criterion was also weighted. And, as I say to you, the long-term unemployed paid 40% of the medicines and the People's Party did not. Therefore, there are the facts, perhaps there are the facts, that in the end the citizens have it so clear that, in the end, when they have the capacity to pronounce themselves they put each one in their place. And, as I said, EH Bildu's attitude, we already know it, disobedience, we already know what it is, but what, of course, is absolutely striking – not to call it otherwise – and evidence that the Socialist Party is clearly disoriented not only at the state level but also at the Euskadi level is that it poses a regulation in a competition that is state. Do as you have done on the board of Andalusia, ask for the suspension, by the way, not of the whole royal decree, only of point 3.2 of the royal decree. Do that, where you rule do that; where you rule you have done it. The Supreme Court has denied them the suspension. Or try to change things, if you have a chance of being in a government, but, of course, it seems to me to be absolutely demonstrable of the Socialist Party we have and of the direction that the Socialist Party is taking that goes by the hand of EH Bildu in an initiative clearly posing an attitude of disobedience and extrapolation of the competences that we have, when you know that we are clearly talking about a state competition, and to this day I understand that the Basque Socialist Party is part of the Socialist Party, which is a state party. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u34	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The dispute is concluded, whether the proposition of the law be taken notice of or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 63; the opposites 10; the whites, 0; abstainments, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u35	Consequently, we consider the law's proposition. Next, we'll go to the vote. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u36	Thank you, President. I will briefly explain why we have finally abstained. We abstained because, on the one hand, we share the demands made by the groups that have put forward this initiative. We share their demands; we share, let's say, their political principles in relation to the defense of health professionals and nurses and nurses. And, on the other hand, because we are against the decree approved by the Ministry of Health, which, as we said at the time in a more or less recent debate, limits the role of nurses and nurses in prescribing medicines and using other health products in the development of their profession. But I also have to say that we are against the application of local or autonomous patches in order to correct the mistakes or the wrong decisions made by the Spanish Government. We think that this is not the right way, because, moreover, this, what ultimately causes is that inequality between Spanish citizens is increased, and I think that this is a bad way that is obviously defended by the nationalist parties, but in recent times this idea has been embraced by other political parties that at the time were national political parties and have now ceased to be so. And, of course, I am referring here to the Socialist Party. It cannot be that the idea that Spain is not a country but 17. I believe that if, in fact, the Government of Spain is taking decisions in the field of its competences that are clearly wrong, wrong or not shared, what must be done – and at least in this case – is to go to the Congress of Deputies, repeal the decree that we do not share and pass the corresponding national law of prescription of nursing. I believe that this should be done, as I say, instead of implementing autonomous patches that do nothing but promote inequality among Spanish citizens. That is why, finally, we abstained, because we criticize the decision of the Spanish Government, but we are against the increase in inequality in Spain and that supposedly national political parties – in particular today's Socialist Party – finally behave as if they were pseudo-nationalist political parties. Therefore, if you really want to make a law on nursing prescription, what you have to do is to transfer it to the Congress of Deputies when it is constituted and repeal from the 27th of June this decree that mostly Spanish society, I understand, does not share. In fact, during these four or five months of public-funded election campaign that you have used for your own benefit, you have even had the opportunity to adopt an initiative to propose the repeal of this decree and to propose some of the ideas that you have embodied in that bill. The aim is to repeal that decree and adopt that national law as from 27 June. Finally, these are, therefore, the reasons why we abstain. We believe that a national law on the prescription of nursing must be passed and we believe that this decree must be repealed, but this must be done in the Congress of Deputies. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u37	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Beyond the legends of the campaign we have heard, our party is on behalf of this legal proposition. I'm sure it's a good idea, but he has remarked that he's found some privations, some privations to consider, in this legal text introduced by the law teams of law. Thus, although we know that these privations are important, we have, as I have said, to regulate or regulate the law-produce of nurses in Er-Hornami. We protect him and encourage him with a new model of nursery, and the head physician has confirmed it more than once. We protect and encourage the new model of nurses, missions, and new profiles, especially in highly developed practice and connection, in function to fulfill link functions. Even yesterday the chairman of the department mentioned that the medical examinations (in the care of the family, pediatricics, mental health, etc.), and from the very beginning we have made it clear that the medical department and we have made it clear about our medical position in the royal combat on the presecration of nurses. In this chamber we have discussed a few weeks ago the motion of this subject, and we have made it clear that we did not agree with the Decree and decret of the 954/2015 King, and that we demanded this decree of the Spanish Government, which at last was to abolish this rule, polemics, the dislike of professionals, and the want of problems, and as soon as possible to accept the new decree, the use and consent of the nurses in a proper manner, considering the medical treatment of the autonomys, and especially the agreement of our colleagues and professionals, and professionals. And our team, and even the Medical Department, even the head physician, has made it clear over and over again. Nay, he has made a manifest opposition to the King's decree, on the one hand, in the disputes of the Common-wealth Committee, to the Minister of Health, to Mr. Alonsus, to inform him so directly, but even when he has made an appeal against this rule. So we don't want to lose ourselves in hopeless discussions today. We understand that we will use all the resources we have in our power to bring this situation back to our senses as quickly as possible. In this sense this may be a different resource, this legal proposition may be another way, and consequently we see no objection to the establishment of the legal proposition. With regard to the convenience or otherwise of urgent processing, we believe that haste is bad companionship. It is also not advisable to copy or copy and paste texts from other communities and bring them to our Parliament, because we believe that neither the times when they were adopted nor the situation are the same. And we understand that exercising our autonomous powers does not mean that we have to bring or copy legal texts from other communities to apply them in our own. Once you say that, then to finish it, it may be another way. So far we've been talking about the ways our team and the funnch has been protecting them for that purpose, so that's why we've done it for the purpose of getting this legal text. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Forth point on the theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-UPyD members, concerning the recent outbreaks of violence on the campus of Lesia and Gastrii. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Maneiro, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u40	Thank you, President. The campuses of Bizkaia and Álava had another day of altercation during a protest called by the union Ikasle Abertzaleak. In Leioa, a group of violent men assaulted the Rectorate and caused injuries to a vigilante and several destructions. In Vitoria, the participants in the protest entered the Vice-Rectorate's headquarters and also caused material damage. With these actions, the student union called for the annulment of the open disciplinary files and the charges against several students for the serious disturbances that occurred on March 17 in Vitoria and Bilbao during the holding of a strike against LOMCE, which ended in a camp battle in the Alavesa capital. The UPV condemned these violent practices, and both the Lehendakari and the Basque Parliament, representatives of the citizens, must also condemn them, since it is not acceptable for these practices to be repeated over time. And hence the questioning we recorded at the time and the motion we recorded and defended today. These violent acts are unacceptable in a democracy and must be strongly censored by democratic institutions and by all those we consider to be democrats. One thing is to claim certain ideas or protest against certain decisions that different governments can make here or there, and another very different and something totally unacceptable is to carry out violent acts to pressure the institutions. Because, moreover, these facts are a continuation of previous equally violent events, because these facts are being repeated with too much assiduousness during the last few months. We therefore called on the Lehendakari for the way in which the Basque Government intends to deal with such violent acts that are repeated in Euskadi every certain time and that, as I say, are absolutely unacceptable. The interpellation we recorded at the time, sadly, was reinforced by another attack provoked after its presentation, after what happened in the early morning of 2 May, when unknown people tried to burn down the facilities of the Vice-Rectorate of the Campus of Álava. The reality is that the violent have deployed a whole strategy against UPV over the last few months. We can go back to March 2, when the Ertzaintza locates material for sabotages, flares and gasoline bottles in the vicinity of the Victorian campus. A few days later, in the same area, hooded men stopped a bus, painted it, poured containers and placed banners. On 17 March, on a supposed day of fighting against LOMCE, groups of radicals caused serious destruction in several Alavesa faculties and then headed towards the center of Vitoria, where they starred in a campal battle and material damage that came close to 100,000 euros. UPV reacted by denouncing these facts and opened several files to students involved in these incidents. The organization Ikasle Abertzaleak called for 26 April a day of struggle under the slogan "Erasorik ez" against the files opened to several students of Engineers of San Mamés and the Campus of Álava. The result, the same as the previous days: serious incidents and destruction at the Vice-Rectorate of Álava and at the campus of Leioa, where they also assault the juror vigilantes and cause various bruises and injuries to seven of them. And the last incident, the tire fire at the door of the vice-rectorate of the Álava Campus. The common denominator of all these attacks and incidents is the organization Ikasle Abertzaleak, who continue to use violence to try to impose their ideas, who continue not to permanently abandon violence or terrorism to try to impose their ideas. This so-called student union, in particular, always appears in the protest days, in the numbers and in the violent attacks. They make it clear their own slogans and slogans, as demonstrated by the launch for the day against the LOMCE "Destructing by building and destroying"; very significant and very enlightening of what they are looking for and what this organization is. These have been the facts. A story that brings us back to past times, when violence was a constant, not only in university, and a tool perfectly designed by the left abertzale to frighten all those we did not think like them, a mechanism to reinforce the strategy of ideological cleansing carried out for half a century by the terrorist band ETA. It is not acceptable for violent practices to reproduce over time. Any act of violence is inadmissible and unjustifiable in democracy. It is no small matter, however much in the more or less recent past we have experienced terrorism that has caused death victims, hundreds of death victims. Finally, the fact that these facts can be defined as kale borroka is not a minor issue, and therefore what we propose is that this Parliament should step up and say clearly that these behaviours are absolutely unjustifiable. That is why all the democrats individually and collectively in the institutions must have as their flag the strong condemnation of violent acts, support the social isolation of those who are protagonists of these events and promote their persecution by the police forces; this is basically what we want to propose, what we proposed at the time. Less than two months ago, following the incidents of 17 March, the democratic forces of this Parliament agreed to a statement of condemnation in which we pointed out that assaulting university centers, frightening teachers and students, destroying public goods and sowing chaos on the streets are actions incompatible with the democratic right to demonstration and protest. This pronouncement could not become an institutional declaration of Parliament because those who have been supporting and covering violence for decades refused to sign it. But we must also criticise the university itself, which, in our opinion, has not been strong enough with these individuals who periodically sow chaos and violate normal academic development. Not only do we think this, some union has made it public in the past few days, and there are many teachers who have denounced it and continue to denounce it. It is also said that there is an agreement between UPV and the Department of Security that Ertzaintza should not act on university campuses unless required by the Rectorate and that in these incidents of the past few months, despite their seriousness, the Basque police should not be required to act. This also seems to us, of course, serious. We asked the counsellor about the matter, but the truth is that she did not answer anything in relation to this particular matter. That is why, as I say, we are asking the Government, to know also, the Government and the Department of Security, what they intend to do from now on that they have not done so far to prevent these events from happening again. Beyond the fact that, of course, those responsible here are those who act in this way, of course, we have a democratic Government, with clear competences, which must logically be called upon to produce concrete results, and the truth is that these incidents, these clashes, these violent actions have been repeated over time. That is why we proposed and continue to propose – and this is also reflected in the transactional that we have signed – that the Government and the Department of Security and the Ertzaintza improve their actions in the future so that these facts cannot happen again. Finally – and it was a purpose I had from the beginning – all the groups that share democratic principles have managed to sign a transactional, a transactional that claims that this Parliament expresses its strongest condemnation of the attacks and violent acts perpetrated on the campuses of Leioa and Vitoria, which alter the necessary coexistence within the UPV. A compromise for this Parliament to say and consider the continuing attacks on the UPV of particular gravity. A compromise for this Parliament to reiterate its call for institutions and society in general to ratify an unequivocal commitment to violence and to work to ensure that events such as those on the Leioa and Vitoria campuses do not occur again. And finally, a compromise for this Parliament to urge Ertzaintza to continue working to prevent events like those recorded in recent months from happening again in the future. Finally, we have tried to reach the greatest possible consensus. My aim was that the fundamentals of what we can defend the Democrats were finally included in the transactional and that, regardless of who finally signed the transactional, it was an agreement that would achieve the greatest possible support by this Parliament. This is what I have tried to do, talking to the rest of the political parties. A democratic, forceful, clear transactional that denounces the facts, that condemns the violent actions, that urges the government to improve its actions and the Ertzaintza itself, but I say that it can be a transactional that achieves the greatest possible support by this Basque Parliament, including unanimity. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u41	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over to the leaders' team, representing the EH Collect Group. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u42	Mr. President of the Parliament, Mrs. Chief, Congressman, good morning. I was looking at the dictionary from the thread of this motion which Mr. Maniro has introduced to us, and "a permanent and inevitable idea which prevails over the mind and fills with a painful feeling of anguish that cannot be shaken from the head." That's how vocabulary defines obsession. This definition may be something of this nature to Mr. Manisro. As he said, on the April 17th of March against LOMCE, at the beginning of the campus at Gasteize, and in the middle of the town there was serious disturbances. On his side, in order to reject events, he discussed the motion at the 13th of April, and accepted it with the majority, the Jalt Party, the Poptular Party, the Social Party, the Social Party, and the Basque People, the Podemos and the Win Teams. Then, on the 26th of April, there was a riot in the campus of Leia. And finally, on the 12th of May, Monday, early in the morning, the strangers lit a fire on the porch of the Recrelations of Gastii. This event, Mr. Maneero, did not take upon itself any groups, and the authors of it are yet unknown. On the 2nd of May, the university called for an interview for her. He also gathered together to meet EH. I don't know if you were involved, Mr. Maniro. That's the facts. At the time of the fascist dictatorship, the university, the campus, and the Church were confined to the force of police, and could not without the permission of the university or church authorities. In the case of the university, what might have been a privilege in the Church, the result of the unconstitutional autonomy is considered. Your obsession with our public college isn't healthy, Mr. Maniro. Your attitude is known to public college and you've been running an initiative or something before now against our university. It's not the first time you've ever doubted the behavior and attitudes of the Basque Country University, as you've done today. Public college is known to be autonomy, called unconstitutional autonomy. This autonomy is in its essence independence of all the foreign factors of the university. The university is essentially an autonomous and independent everybody, and it governs itself, and the university itself chooses its rulers, independent of the influences of political power. Mr. Maniro, what you often demand for the institutions of justice, public media or public financial services, the university, the public university itself. He's had it for a while. What's the reason you're going to attack public college once and twice? The universitary autonomy, Mr. Maniro, is recorded in the 27th article of the Constitution of the Kingdom, and is the fundamental right of the Constitutional Court twice in two sentences, 1989 and 1991, as it has been resolved. You must know, Mr. Maniro, that the buildings of public university are acknowledged to be impregnable, and that the police and security forces do not enter unless the university authorities specifically ask them to enter. And in this respect, in the case mentioned by you, the chief physician, in this case, is what the head of the Security is making laws and autonounsitarian autonomy. You must know, Mr. Maniro, that autonomy is profitable, not only for the freedom of the cathedral, even for freedom and for a healthy democracy. Teachers, students and college employees, they control, we control, we control college. They rule and manage the university. As Mrs. Heertán de Heediani in your interpelationship, thousands of people in public college, more than 15,000, participated in co-operation and in favor of peace, in Adi-Adian or Voice in the project to mention one of them. Public college, Mr. Maniro, does not need the intervention of this legislature, and much less of that of the only members of the Misto legislature. Thank you, Mr. Maniro, but no. We remove your obsession with EH Collectan from the root, because your proposal reduces your socialnomy, among other things. You're out of time, Mr. Maniro. In fact, we ask the Parliament to defend the autonomy of the Basque Country. We do not understand how this obsession can or may be given a defence. The University of the Basque Country is completely entwined in partnership projects. Your party announcement does not contribute to it at all; it does not contribute to the university in quest of peace and construction of life, but it does not contribute to your obsession in these matters. Well, college's building partnership. If you want to protect and support the man who stands for peace and co-exist, look among the members of the legislature and look unjustly at the one who is unjustly condemned. Look at the Hiller, your congressman, your congressman. The Marchese took upon himself the direction of the party he conducts from the democratic road. It wasn't easy, it was hard work, and it's done right now. It should be our gratitude and yours. We'd like to convey our gratitude and solidarity to the Homeer Ranch. You should do the same, build a living, stretch out your hand when you pass there, and tell him your solidarity, because we are all going the same way. Mr. Maneiro, you'd be more human, and that wouldn't hurt you. It is true that we are angry with the penalty against our comrades. It's not fair, everyone knows it's not fair. It is not fair to deprive the people of the violence of the legislative power which the people chose, by force of force, of impunity. However, we will continue the wager on behalf of our partnership. That's why we won't protect your proposal. And as He has shown us, until we have acquired liberty in the way, we shall make the strongest steps. A warm hug to the Home.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u43	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u44	Thank you, President. I will focus on the subject of debate, although there are times when I hear things that make my wrists stop in an absolutely amazing way. Anyway! I will tell you, Your Honor, that I want to believe that there is unanimity in this House in the idea that this country needs peace and coexistence with memory. And that is precisely why, because we have a very bitter memory of what has happened and what has been our recent past, it is why we have to put all the means in place so that it does not happen again. And that is why the Socialist Group has signed the compromise, although I must say that I liked the original proposal very much more, and also our whole amendment, as it cannot be otherwise. And it has signed it to condemn the inadmissible acts of violence that have recently occurred on our university campuses. It has signed it to promote once again in Basque society a collective commitment against these attitudes and in defence of the rule of law and in defence of freedom. And also to express unequivocal support for the action of the Ertzaintza, despite the fact that we urge it to improve its action to deal with this type of action in defense, as I say, of democratic legality and citizenship. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we must be very, very clear and very sharp when acts of violence, coercion, the destruction of public goods such as those that have been experienced in recent months on the campuses of Leioa, Vitoria and on the streets of the Alavesa capital. We all know very well, we know what terrorism has been and we especially know what street terrorism has been. We know perfectly well what its effects have been, that they are nothing other than the constant intimidation of citizens on the public street, the attacks on freedom of expression, the breaking, in short, of everyone's rights to the exclusive benefit of the brutes and animals of the place. We know all that and, as we know, we do not want that sinister past to return to this country. Democracy has not defeated ETA to return those who try to imitate it by trying to reproduce its methods of totalitarian imposition. We don't want ETA out of the game, street terrorism slashing us through the back door. We do not want violent minorities to get used to their coercion and their unwiseness. We do not want to go back to those times of silence, when bookstores were being burned or when certain areas of our towns and cities were becoming national zones, for those who did not communicate with the cause. And we do not want the University of the Basque Country to become a new national area, in which only some speak and shout, while others silence, probably out of fear. We do not want our Basque university to become a kind of gala village that can be left to the nostalgic and longing of the old days of the kale borroka. And even less do we want it, indeed," said Mr. Maneiro, "when we know the motto of those who move encouraged by the organization Ikasle Abertzaleak, of those who proclaim that destroying by building is building by destroying. From that vision everything is understood. What must be protested against LOMCE? Perfect, we try to burn the vice-rectorate, we cause destruction in the university units and by the way, as we are there, we take advantage of and assault the university workers. This attitude, ladies and gentlemen, is an imbecile attitude, because it very much reminds the story of that recruit who in the barracks was head-on against the wall and when asked why he was doing that, he said, "To fuck the sergeant." That was the way that simple soul had to protest against the militia. Well, here it is more or less the same: to protest for a law that deteriorates the quality of teaching deteriorates it a little further, destroys it a little more and so, the next day, you can protest for that lack of resources that I myself have contributed to increase. This, ladies and gentlemen, is the ideology of the destruction that ETA has been feeding in our society. It is a reactionary ideology because it is reactionary – he has no other word – to attack public goods that we pay taxpayers. All taxpayers, those who take their children to college and also – and certainly to a greater extent – those who don't because they can't. Here we're not even talking about a revolution, we're talking about a pejorative rebellion, about children who are looking for an identity that only seems to find it when they start doing this kind of violence and totalitarian imposition. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the identity that the herd provides. It is the stupid identity and brutality of fascism, and that uniform and uniform identity that ETA has already wanted to impose on us we know perfectly well and do not like. We don't like it. We are left with the identity of democratic citizenship, which is nothing other than pluralism, respect between different people, freedom of expression and respect for the legality that we have all granted ourselves. It seems little, but it's nothing more or nothing less. And that is why we have signed this compromise amendment for which we are seeking the support of this House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Eubertarians. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. As a matter of fact, after the former speakers had spoken, and had listened to the proclamations of so many institutions in the past few months, there is nothing new to be said about this subject. As we say, all the institutions, even the University of the Basque Country, have been very clear about it, and we all make our own teams all these proclamations. But in some things at least, and in matters of principle some things must be clearly and always said, although we must repeat them many times. And one of them is: every idea, to extend, to defend, to defend, to threaten, and to abuse, is altogether unacceptable. It's been like that in the past, so it's been like this today, and it's gotta be like this in the future. And this has often been said, but it is a fundamental proclamation, and we must even now do it here. The stronger the use of violence is, the project or project debases and pollutes them. In any case, when violence is more or more clearly used against the university, when the circle of wisdom, discussion, and critical opinion is attacked. And we should be able to say that out loud and unanimously in this parliament. This is not to be trifled with, that is to say, the fundamental ideas, the ideas that form a society, and make it clear. And that's what we're talking about. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about theUPyD team and the middle-direction we signed on the Socialist team. The text does not at all deny or break the social autonomy, nor despise it. The text itself, in its first paragraph, shows clearly the protection and confession given to the college community or to the university itself, both to the students and teachers, to all the administrative and personal service. Therefore, this amendment does not run counter to university autonomy, it cannot be understood against university autonomy when from its first paragraph it shows its support for the entire university community and, of course, it shows its support, of course, for university autonomy. We're not talking about that. We are talking about defending a basic principle in democracy and that we should be clear and that we sometimes run the risk of appearing to be trivializing it, but it is that there are things that are the ABC of coexistence, and a clear one is that we cannot admit or defend the use of violence, the use of threat, the use of harassment to defend an idea, whatever it is, or to criticize a law, no matter how unfair it may seem to us. And that is what this compromise amendment does: it sets out clear criteria, which are those that articulate a healthy society and a democratic society. I believe that the compromise amendment we have signed would be perfectly acceptable to any of the groups in this House. Moreover, I would say that what this compromise amendment says should not only be consumable, but has been publicly assumed by all the groups in this House. Despite the history we have, today we are a healthier society, with a better coexistence than it was a few years ago, even a few months ago. Therefore, in addition to condemning once again these facts, in addition to denouncing the use of violence to defend an idea – whether political, economic, or social – or to criticise the laws, I would like to highlight the work of the Basque University of the Basque Country in favour of coexistence, which goes from – as some spokeswoman who preceded me in the use of the word – to participate in numerous projects that favor coexistence in this country until – as Mr Maneiro also said – the opening of files to the students who starred in the first incidents, dossiers that gave rise to the continuation of this path that is intended to avoid, and also to value the work of Ertzaintza in the prevention and prosecution of these crimes, that is to put the focus where it belongs; and the focus, in this case, must be placed on the existence of people in this country who still believe that ideas can be defended through violence. And I believe that it is the responsibility of all, of all political parties, of all institutions (political, academic, cultural), to end that culture, to destroy once and for all that culture of violence, that culture of imposing on the defense of ideas and projects. This is the contribution that we from the Basque Nationalist group intend to make with the signing of this amendment and with all the work that we have been developing as a society and as institutions in favor of coexistence in this country. Because, if so high and so clear we must say once again that it cannot be allowed and that we have to fight in this country against the existence of a culture, which has been rooted for a long time, of admitting and defending the use of violence for the defence of ideas, as high as that we must say that fortunately we have today, as I said before, a healthier society and a society that works more towards coexistence, which has clearer these principles, and, of course, there we are going to be and we must all be, without exclusion, in the defence of these projects. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing over to the group that hasn't been running any corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Isasi, I'm going to answer you and I hope the president doesn't cut me off, since you've been letting your partner do the panegyric, right? Well, don't cut me either. Look, I'm sorry he's not here to tell you to his face. Solidarity, none. Solidarity, none. Solidarity with whom he has recognized belonging to the terrorist gang ETA – he himself has recognised it – to a terrorist gang that was responsible for murdering, torture, kidnapping, extortion, threatening Basque society and the rest of Spanish society... With them, with them is the solidarity of this group. With whom you have acknowledged to belong to a terrorist gang that has done all that, solidarity, none, Mr. Isasi, none. And with regard to your intervention, I'm going to say a phrase that my children often say: "How strong! How strong!". What a rodeo to, once again, once again, refuse to what all Democrats see so clearly and dye it with partisan obsession. No, I'm sorry, Mr. Isasi. Democratic obsession. Obsession of the Democrats. Do you really believe that it is a partisan obsession to condemn violent acts? We understand democracy in very different ways. Interventions like yours here today show that you have much, much more to understand what democracy is. Because what the university is experiencing is a succession of violent acts. And not just in college: they're passing through college. Mr. Maneiro said it here today, but I want to put them all together. And there are many before and many... Let's hope they don't come later. At the beginning of March, as Mr Maneiro said, material was seized in the vicinity of the university. In mid-March, a strike was called against the LOMCE, a strike day that was destroyed in the UPV camp and in the centre of Vitoria, with eight detainees. The university, in the exercise of its autonomy, condemns the violence employed and the intimidation used against teaching staff and their own fellow students who had not wanted to benefit from the right to strike, because you, rights, some understand them as obligations, thus understand freedom. The pickets locked up a number of students who had come to class and threatened teachers who recriminated their attitude and who were unable to carry out their professional work in the face of their aggressive attitude. But, as I told you, these altercations pass through the university: in the center of Vitoria they strike against shops, against banking entities, against the Ertzaintza, throwing stones, batteries, flares, screws, large marbles. These wreckage forces the Ertzaintza to act, both in the expansion and in the historic centre. The balance was nine detainees, one injured and extensive damage to banks, urban furniture and also inside the university compound. After these events, the UPV, in the exercise of its autonomy, complains to the Ertzaintza to clarify the responsibilities produced on the campus of Vitoria and the aggressive and threatening attitudes poured on the university staff. But there have been more violent acts, as Mr Maneiro has said. At the end of April, five young people attacked the building of the Rectorate of the UPV located in Leioa, after a hundred young people supported a demonstration called by Ikasle Abertzaleak, under the slogan – as he said – "Erasorik ez" (No more attacks). And the morning of May 2nd, for the third time, the vice-rectorate of the campus lavés of the UPV is attacked. As we can see, although the last is true that it has not been claimed, but the previous ones, all the previous ones, have a common denominator: the union abertzale Ikasle Abertzaleak, which is the student version of the left abertzale, a union whose objective in these demonstrations went far beyond the protest against the LOMCE. Its objective, as has been said here, is to "Build by destroying", and it must be said that no, that its objective is to destroy, because by destroying absolutely nothing is built, it is achieved only by destroying. And this reminds us, as has also been said here, to other times, to a past, to a past that is there, however much that some, as accomplices kept themselves, as they even leaped in that past, now they want to obviate it, now they want it to disappear, that it would never have existed, but it was there, it was there. And it reminds us of violent acts in the university and in the streets of Euskadi, attacks on the Ertzaintza and other security forces, attacks on property, attacks on urban furniture, attacks on people for the simple fact of thinking differently. It reminds us of the use of violence to achieve political objectives, to supposedly build a homeland – it sounds like building, doesn't it? – but it only managed to destroy: to destroy lives, to destroy families, to destroy projects. A constant violence on the streets and used as a tool to frighten, to threaten the entire Basque society. And all of this, as I say to you, is always backed by the same and, of course, never condemned, not even today, by the left abertzale. And once again, that lack of condemnation again exists, because I was already telling you, Mr. Isasi, the rodeo that you have given for once again not to condemn..., really than to parapet behind university autonomy in order not to condemn these violent acts, really, as I said before: how strong! As has been said in this House, an institutional declaration of condemnation could not be carried out, and it could not be done because you opposed, said that the student movement was being criminalized and that the justice of the demands could not be tarnished. The abertzale left, yes, congratulated the students for the success of the strike and demanded clarification of the complaints of violent actions of police over-limitation, complaints that, by the way, always occur from certain areas, from which police guilt is always presumed to be absolutely unfounded and unjust. And, look, violence is not admissible in democracy, violence is unjustifiable and intolerable always, and the use of violence must always be condemned. The protest, the demonstration, the disagreement, the demands, of course they are a right, a right that can be exercised and that must be exercised by those who disagree with the decisions that are made. But that protest is incompatible, that right of demonstration is incompatible with the destruction of public goods, with altercations in the streets and with threats to teachers, students and the rest of the citizenry. Anyone who considers himself a Democrat must condemn the use of violence, all institutions must raise their voices in the face of the use of practices of destruction, coercion and threat such as these, not exercises of university autonomy, Mr Isasi. All public representatives must appeal to peaceful coexistence, tolerance and condemnation of acts that want to end it. That is why we have not tabled an amendment, because we were totally in agreement with the initiative put forward by UPyD and we agreed with that first group, that what comes to be collected is that need for condemnation without compromises, without half inks, without buts, without rodeos, without university autonomy as an excuse, Mr Isasi, the attacks and violent acts that took place on the university campuses of Leioa and Vitoria, and measures must also be taken, as proposed. Speaking here of a football match, the counselor appealed to the importance of prevention. Well, here too we must appeal to prevention, and we must appeal in two ways: on the one hand, we must prevent such behaviours from occurring, and those violent behaviours from continuing to germinate in our young people. It must be made aware that no cause, no protest, no claim can be made using violence. Young people must be inoculated in the face of the temptation to return to other times, to be aware that what happened in the past is intolerable and unacceptable, and cannot be repeated again. We consider it necessary to raise the awareness of university students that this should be a space of tolerance, understanding, respect, coexistence, that it is the center of training and research and that, as such, facts like these cannot be produced again. That is why we believe that, as mentioned in the second point of Mr Maneiro's initiative, we must all (political parties, trade unions) work to ensure that the university is truly that, an area of coexistence and democracy, and that there are no repetitions of events like those that have taken place. On the other hand, it is necessary to ensure the safety of students and teachers, to provide security for citizens, and there the Department of Safety and Ertzaintza is responsible. It has been said here that it is true that until it is authorized that the Ertzaintza can intervene this cannot enter a university space, but I do want to ask you: in case of misfortunes, in case of having to take responsibility for failure of security, to whom would these claims be made? Citizenship, who would I demand to intervene? Who would have missed not being there precisely to give security to teachers, to give security to administrative staff, to give security to students themselves? Who would have been asked to have given that assurance? Is it really believed that the citizenry would have understood that because of a lack of permission the Ertzaintza could not have intervened? I think we should consider that. That is why I also agreed with the third point. In any case, I believe that the compromise amendment tabled reflects all that, we absolutely agree, and it is more, as has been said here, that no one who is called a Democrat and who believes that violence has no justification and has never had it, of course, can reject that amendment. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u49	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Corrections. Passing on the answers, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u50	Thank you, President. Mr. Isasi, you're going to wear my last name. Don't say "Mr. Maneiro" so many times and say something else as necessary, but at least one. Tell him to condemn the violent acts, the facts that we're going to condemn all the Democrats. That is simply what you are being asked to do today, to condemn certain violent acts that took place in the UPV. This is what you are asked for, and you have used all kinds of excuses, all kinds of rodeos to finally not support this transactional, which is a transactional signed by different political parties: nationalists, non-nationalists, autonomists, right-wing or left-wing. Obviously, I too liked my original motion better, but what I intended was to reach an agreement as broad as possible that I would try to seek even the House's own unanimity. And I think that Mr Iturrate himself is aware of this, because yesterday I passed it on to him. Indeed, it will not be possible today either, because EH Bildu refuses to condemn violent actions. This is the summary. You say this is an obsession. But how is it going to be an obsession? The obsession will be with those who insist on violent actions, not democrats, who try to do what they do: "This is absolutely unacceptable, we will defend democracy and we will all together condemn these facts so that they cannot happen again." This is what it was meant to be. It's no obsession. It's a logical thing and it's a very healthy thing. Doing these kinds of exercises in defense of democracy – check it out sometime – is very healthy, it comes very well to all of us: first to ourselves and then to society as a whole. It is better to condemn terrorism than not to condemn it, Mr Isasi. Condemning terrorism is something very, very healthy, I advise you. Do not talk about university autonomy, that here at no time is this autonomy attacked. Don't surround yourself, don't talk about obsessions. A number of violent actions have taken place and here is, at last, the representation of the Basque democratic society that is going to vote in favour of this broad compromise that we have managed to agree with all the political parties less with you, because you do not want to say "I condemn these actions", do not want to take this step. Mr. Isasi, don't insult me, don't set me as an example to Mr. Arraiz, don't set me as an example to someone who belonged to a terrorist gang. Don't set that example, he's insulting me and society as a whole. How will an ex-member of ETA be an example for democratic society? Don't you understand that this is an insult to democracy, to decent society? How can you set that example? My example, Mr Isasi, is the victims of terrorism, the councillors of the People's Party and the Socialist Party of Euskadi who faced ETA terrorism and decided to raise their voices, plant faces and not remain silent. My example is the state's security forces and bodies, which have defended, defended and will continue to defend democracy. Those are my examples, decent society, the citizens who decided and continue to decide today that no to any kind of violent or terrorist action. That's my example. My example cannot be a member of ETA, Mr. Isasi. That is also an apologia of terrorism, what you have just done. To set an example or try to set an example for a former member of a terrorist gang as an example to society is an insult to democratic society; above all, if you then do not take the step of condemning these violent acts. And I realize that yesterday afternoon I thought that perhaps it would be possible for this transactional or a transactional like this to be approved unanimously, but, indeed, it has been impossible. As Mr Iturrate rightly said, there is nothing new to say, but there are certainly certain things to be said again. We agree. It has not been possible, but are you all in agreement with the words transferred by Mr. Isasi? Are they all a block? None of you are going to condemn terrorism? Mr Matute, Mrs Blanco, Mrs Pinedo, will you vote in favour of this compromise? Are they going to vote in favour of this transactional or are they going to bend to Batasuna's theses forever and ever? More than anything so that when a person, in this case a server, makes certain statements or says things in relation to EH Bildu, you do not look up as saying "No, I condemned." Well, ask you to vote separately or do it directly. It is a perfectly democratic, reasonable transactional, that all we intend to do is condemn violent actions, say that this is unacceptable and that we are all going to defend democracy together.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u51	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u52	A transactional, I say, signed by all the democratic groups of the House: right, left, nationalists, non-nationalists, people of all ideologies to whom I am obviously grateful for their participation in the elaboration of this initiative, their signature and their vote. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u53	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Not as long as reference is made to a person giving turn to allusions. The Rules of Procedure must be read when they give rise to allusions. No, no, the Rules of Procedure must be read because there is not always a point of order when reference is made. One thing is for a person to be asked a high question, but that doesn't make any hints. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u54	Good morning again, Mrs. President of the Parliament. On May 2nd, Mrs. Arrido and I were at the university meeting, and this explained our position. Probably, Mr. Maniro, you must have been in Madrid, but you won't get it out of there and you won't get it out. Probably, the disappearance ofUPyD... In other words, the work of politicians like Starter Array has been a slight failure to end the state of violence for the disappearance ofUPyD. We will not support ourselves, we will abstain from the medium agreed upon. I also thought it would be possible to agree this time, but it was impossible for him to go round in the country again, and that Mr. Maneiro's interpenetration at first and in the consequence of the interpelration had given him a retrograde. That's how I feel about it. I'd tell Miss Llanos for a little while not to agree with a party created by a Minister of Fascist dictatorship of General Franco, well, for my career, it seems normal to me. A lot of it still has to develop its democratic career in order to win my respect by the former Minister of Fascist dictatorship. But I don't think that's the point, I really think, because the main reason is that the public university is obsessed with autonomy, and that it has been proposed before. Here, in the matter of the matter, there is something very serious about this matter: The student patriots are an institution of students for a long year, and the Student patriots have been a valuable job for the University of the Basque Country. The patriot of the students is a democratic institution, and the patriot of the students has been mentioned here several times without cause. There is no connection between the Student patriots and the institution. It may happen during the same period, but I would say that if you were to be Mr. Maniro and others in Paris at this moment, you would be more than parliamentary, something like "flick." With what's going on, with all the quarrels that have occurred on the fifth anniversary of May 15th, with what's happening in Paris, with the refugees, that speech over violence, you'll excuse me, I know it's painful, but you'll fall into cheap populism. There have been exceptions for those who have happened to the university, one, two: The university itself is able to face these events. And in this case, I would stand for the chief officer of the Border, in respect of autonomy, and, if need be, the university authorities would demand that they should, if necessary, employ the support of the edges to solve these problems. Public college is doing well in that case, one. Other: The student patriot is an institution of students, a member of the clauseal representation, democratic, and still defends the University of the Basque Country. It's clear at least that it has nothing to do with the last events, and I'd like to report that criminalization here. If you've read our corrections, it's got three points. In the first place, we expressed our position upon these events, and expressed our reproach in a clear light. It couldn't be the deal. But it wasn't possible, I'd say, because of cowardice. We have to take another turn. As far as he is a member of the legislature, he is among us at this moment... I think you're embarrassing me with the people I've heard. Finally, tell him we're going to keep our own, thinking it's the best thing for partnership...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u55	Go to the end, Mr. Isas.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u56	Yeah. And abstition in the middle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u58	Thank you, President. If I may, from the seat. I did not want to intervene in this second round, but it is that you persist in the mistake, Mr Isasi. I mean, it keeps turning around the same mandanga, which has nothing to do with this. The first thing I want to say to you is that you continue to neglect all those opportunities that you have, that are constantly given, so that you truly recognize what has happened in this country and that you recognize a number of facts that are constitutive of pure and harsh violence. This "reject" or "Parliament has already rejected"... His whole amendment was a bluff. It was exactly a bluff. It is not hard for you at this time to sign – or, if not to sign – this amendment that we have all signed. We have all signed but you because you do not want to, because recognizing what you put in that amendment would be recognizing that you have a past that is not the right one. You still have those things behind you. It's just that sometimes not only do my wrists stop, but my blood freezes in my veins. May you make me here this bold defense of Mr Arraiz who comes to nothing, when in the end he has been the one who, using democratic legality and knowing the benefits of the rule of law to the accused, has had an absolutely important reduction in the penalty that allows him not to enter the train, which is what in purity could touch him. And disqualification is also coupled with that, as everyone here knows that they have a little common sense. So, please, the only thing I can ask you to do is stop wringing, mixing barbecues with merinas and simply squeezing on the subject matter. And that means recognizing that Ikasle Abertzaleak or members of Ikasle Abertzaleak camp for their outings on the street as animals, as acorn animals. That's what there is. And that such behaviors have to be rejected, condemned and cannot be allowed, because for many years they have been allowed and this already has to end at once. And as long as there is no unanimity or absolute union of all, not only of the Democrats at the moment, but of all, who will again be democrats, in that case yes, we will not get this kind of situation to happen again. We have memory, Mr. Isasi, and I think you have it too, and in fact you ask for it. Memory is for everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u59	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u60	President andrea. Actually, it's a shame you can't make a statement in a mouth today, right? And it's a pity, considering the text we've set up and the will we've shown. And to be honest, I've never been a Gorka Maneiro fan. I do not usually praise his words when I come here, nor do I praise his person. But in this case it must be said that he who has said here has been in favour of the abruptness of his mouth. That's how it was. And you know quite well, I say, that our intention and the intention of Mr. Maneiro has been to obtain an appeal of a mouth, and that in this case at least he has no principle, nor will he say that he does not want a vote for the patriot on the left, or for the EH Bilg. And I think in this case... I, at any rate, have seen what I have seen, when he has said it, and has done so, when he has done it, a good disposition, and he is ready to go to another text, to whom the EH Collect agreed in the General Assembly of the Arabs. So here, Mr. Isas, I'm not proud of him, I'm not pleased, I'm not even excited, I'm sorry. There is not, as you said, a backward step here, at least not in this text. And even in plans today, there hasn't been any, much less cowardice. I didn't expect that, and that's not true. There are no cowards here. What lies here is in my first intervention I have said to confirm the fundamental principles of ERNU, to confirm a healthy society, a democratic society, the principles on which a healthy society is united, and in which we cannot all advance, we are not going anywhere. Unfortunately, what happens here isn't cowardice, it's not that we're running backwards. This is what happens here, what happens to EH Collect, the patriotic left, who plays Ricky Martin's music, "Un, dos, tres, un paitito plonte," María, un, dos, tares, un paitás." It's a pity that the patriotic left side behaves and behaves in common. And, yes, I admit that they make progress, but then "Un, dos, tres, un pait turas" is also coming, and "un pait pait 'bell," we don't move. That's the worst part. And I'm not happy and I'm not excited, I said. I'm sorry to say today, I think it was worth a statement from a mouth, that it was possible and that you refused, which I'm not glad of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u61	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Finally, the Euskal Potula Group representative. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u62	Thank you again, Madam President. I don't know if I'm the one who has the least candor in this House. I assumed it was Mr. Maneiro, but I see him as more innocent than I do, because I thought he would be able to reach an institutional declaration to condemn some altercations, no, violent facts of some students, of someone who here makes continuous reference to his quality as a professor of the UPV and has been unable to condemn the murder of his companion Juan de Dios Doval, so it is difficult. It's hard. If you are not able to condemn a murder of your partner, how will you condemn some student successes, right?, mobilization successes, which were thus qualified. And the truth is that I have said it once: Franco must be like Elvis, who has not died, because you again and again, again and again allude..., on two occasions you have alluded to Franco's fascism; that is, to ETA's fascism never, ever. And you say that you find my intervention shameful. The truth is that whatever I think of you, my speech gives me exactly the same, and that I have no respect for you, nor does that bench have respect for you, I will also tell you that it gives me exactly the same. But I do not know whether you will also have respect, so much so that you speak of the UPV, for whom you were the rector of the UPV, Mr Manu Montero, who today has an excellent article in a medium of communication and which I would recommend reading, because I think you perfectly reflect that strategy of the left abertzale, that strategy – which is very different, as he says well – of wanting peace by saying that violence is no longer politically profitable and that therefore it must be abandoned – they are two very different things – and that the enemy of peace is the one who has dedicated himself to stepping out, to supporting a terrorist gang and those who still do not condemn it, that it is all of you. The enemies of peace are not the others, we want the confessed terrorists to serve their sentences, we want the confessed terrorists not to represent the Basques in this Parliament. Those are not the enemies of peace. But in that strategy of the left abertzale you try to erase and new count and distort the reality, the present and the past. And they are able to say the absolute indignity that those of us who have suffered, that we are all Basque society and the representatives of some political parties, that we have suffered the terrorist threat in the first person, we do not want ETA to end. No, we don't want it to look like ETA never existed, because it did. It shouldn't have existed, but it did. And you, not only do you not condemn it, but you pretend to make all Basques believe that it never existed. And it existed. Come on, it did exist! And we gave faith in it all the Basques. So don't mistake the terms. You who love university so much, who appeals so much to university autonomy, I tell you, read that article of which you were the rector of your university. And that's where you really pick up what happened, not what you guys say.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u63	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Now that the discussion is over, we're going to vote for Mistto-UPyD, Eukal Sozialists, and the middle-class correction that the Euncists have signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u64	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Five point in theme list: "Modition, Oskar Mate García de Jalón EHGGGDE, about the measurements of the New Atlantic Trade and Investigation to stop the signature of the contract (TIP). Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Matute, it's your word to introduce and take care of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen, good noon. Today, as the Euscal Country has made it throughout the course of legislation, it means the investment of the United States and the treaty of commerce between Europe and Europe, because it is a great influence on our society, and unfortunately because the agreement which they wish to unite is not in any way for the public good, because the rights of men will be limited, because our conditions of life will go to the worst, and will mortgage the future of our people. We have seen in the course of these years that different nations and persons have taken possession of the importance of this imaginary compact, and having convinced you of the severe consequences which the treaty may have, we invite you to take a position. And our position is firm and clear: We're against TTIP. We do not read from a reading of the blocks, but the competition between the independence of the Thracians and the rights of the peoples, whether they be in the United States or in Europe. And we want to say more for today: EH is not opposed to trade, but we are opposed to this commercial model, because we believe that the trade cannot have its extent and monopoly in this very object; The legitimate commercial, ecological, where it secures healthier and tolerable production from local resources, and TTIP is just the opposite. I hope that time will not run out and that the Rules of Procedure will not be speeded up as quickly as possible, in the same way that I am not going to ask you one by one, nor to ask or question each one of you about the very harmful aspects of the TTIP, although that would not give you the opportunity to answer me with allusions, as it seems to be the case, under the Rules of Procedure. I will try to adjust to the time and I will also try to do so if it does not interfere with me, because everything is heard in this House. I only bring this issue up again, and I know that I can be told – and I say this in advance – that this is an electoral issue, but I will not deny that we have been in elections all the time and that if I am in elections I will be invalidated to talk about the TTIP, we could probably never talk about the TTIP. And it is true that elections are again coinciding, and it is also true that we are bringing this issue back, but we are bringing it back after a new round of debate in this Parliament, a new round of debate in this Parliament that we have once again had to propitiate from Euskal Herria Bildu. Probably in future scenarios we are not the only force that brings the TTIP issue from the focus of concern and the opposite position that Euskal Herria Bildu currently brings. And we will be happy, because the picture that is usually taken in this Parliament about the supporters and detractors of the TTIP is then presented to us as a picture representing the majority social position in the face of a minority position, though noisy – I understand – for the persistence of the complaint. But I think that photo is also changing and also in this House it will change, and that is good news. But, in any case, I believe that we can already point out – and we also do so after the inquiry and the appearance of Mr Toña and Mrs Tapia's inquiry – that it seems that the disagreement, that the disapproval around the bottom, even the forms – or fundamentally the forms, rather than the bottom – on the TTIP are increasingly being shared. That is to say, of the initial position held by our group, by Euskal Herria Bildu, contrary – and I do not deny it, and it remains contrary, and I do not deny it or conceal it – to the TTIP, we have already begun to see at least certain points of connection or meeting or of shared concern with political forces that have at other times manifested in this House a more or less unbreakable adherence to the TTIP, probably because fears that we already knew have been confirmed. And one was that of opacity, which when we pointed out that the TTIP, the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Agreement that is to be signed between the United States and the European Union, was absolutely opaque and was a clear maneuver to evade responsibility for what is being discussed and to place knowledge of what is being discussed in the citizenry and that it could assess and assess what is supposed to be a serious attack on their rights, we were told that it was not entirely true, that the European Union was already establishing mechanisms for their knowledge, that through a web page and a process of European participation could already be accessed all the information. It has been shown that it was not true with Greenpeace's leaks. But what is more, it has not only been shown that it was not true, it has been shown that these tools were absolutely ineffective, and that is no longer a subjective or personal interpretation of me, it has also been recognized, as I say, by members of this Government in one way or another. Therefore, there is already a reading that seems quite evident, and that is that this whole process has been conceived in opacity. But I will tell you more: this process, with all the opaqueness that it has been, with all the lack of democratic transparency that it has had, that it has only been subtly corrected by social pressure, is something more democratic, something more transparent than that which has been done with CETA, with CETA that will begin to apply now. Because what the European Union would have wanted, what the transnationals that encourage and promote this agreement would have wanted, is that the same negotiating procedure, the same secret and opaque procedure that has been followed with CETA would have been followed. That's the reality. And yet now we find ourselves in another weaver. And it should also be noted that the fears that we maintained are confirmed or ratified. The first times we brought this debate to this House we were told that we were again making use of the alarmist debate, of victimism as well, and of social unrest by flag, without real justification for holding it or protecting it. Well, I think that in the light of what has been known, there was not so much exaggeration, there was not so much will for chrispation as there was will for everyone, for everyone, for everyone, to know what is hidden behind that trade agreement. And we can land it in concrete terms: we were talking about transgenics, and we were talking about how directives on genetically modified organisms, GMOs, were not being complied with, and we were talking about how transnationals, including pharmaceuticals, were being covered, so that they could continue to exploit their turnover above people's health or the right to access generic medicines for people. And we were talking about the designations of origin, and we were talking about how it could be reconciled or how it is possible to reconcile that supposed bonanza for SMEs, if at the same time many of the designations of origin are supported by SMEs precisely who already recognize and already recognize the Government that they can be greatly damaged by this agreement if it is signed as it is known through the leaks. And we were talking about the setback that it was going to entail in social and labour rights, and we were saying that adapting the United States' regulations with the European Union by reason of the non-approval, the non-acceptance of certain ILO international conventions by the United States of America could generate a devaluation of the quality standards in the labour and social rights of our population, of the European population in the broadest sense, and now we see that that too is true, because it is also within the negotiations. And so we could continue to talk about more, but we also saw that the sovereignty of peoples could be seriously attacked; but the sovereignty of peoples in its purest sense, in its most democratic sense, because if no community, if no entity, if no national or regional entity can regulate over what can be determined by arbitration tribunals composed of members not subject to state or regional laws, where remains the capacity of peoples, the capacity of parliaments to legislate, if what they legislate can be amended through the multimillionaire sanction through the special courts, now ICS (formerly ISDS, is its acronym). And we were also talking about regulatory harmonisation, the principle of regulatory cooperation. And all of that continues to appear in the treaty. And I've talked to them before CETA, and I want to stop for a couple of minutes at CETA because I think it's related and I don't think it's gonna be a cause for calling to order either. CETA is an already completed, pending trade agreement between Canada and the European Union. That agreement was concluded in 2014, specifically in mid-May or June 2014. It was done without information. It is intended to start in October 2016, on the occasion of or in conjunction with the Canada-European Union summit. It was published in February 2016; until then nothing has been known. And in that agreement – in the CETA agreement – the ICS already appears, already appears the Court of State-Investor Disputes, which is the one that empowers multinationals, transnationals, to ask sovereign states if they believe that the laws they are endowed with – which are supposed to respond to the demands of the majority of their citizens – attack or prevent their subsequent trade developments. That is, if a transnational considers that it had to earn I don't know how much in the next few years and the law of a state prevents it because it generates more restrictive frameworks for what volume of business or what kind of trade, a transnational will be able to sue, multi-million dollar claims, to that state or to that community. And that's already coming in the CETA. And CETA also has the principle of regulatory cooperation. And the other day we were told that the principle of regulatory cooperation should never be able to go beyond existing legislation and quality standards. And yet we see that in CETA, which will begin to apply in October, the principle of regulatory cooperation already appears as a harmonised principle that devalues rights and denigrates freedoms. And that is the reality we see today; therefore, we are not making alarmism and we are not making victimism. But there is one thing even more serious than everything I have already said, which probably sounds repetitive or repetitive to you because it is true that it does not represent too much novelty with what I have been holding here. There is one thing called provisional implementation, and that provisional implementation is the way CETA adapts to reality immediately after October 2016. Such provisional implementation does not require approval by the Council of the European Union through unanimity. Because it is still said here today that we do not worry, that if the treaty is potentially as bad as some and some we point out, this has to be ratified by the European bodies and then by the national and/or regional parliaments, as in the case of Belgium, with Flanders and Wallonia. But that's not entirely true, and it looks like CETA, and that's why I bring CETA out. It is not true that the adoption or completion of the TTIP must be carried out as a formula of obligation which must be subject to validation and consideration by national parliaments. Because, if not, why hasn't CETA been done this way? Why is there provisional implementation with CETA, which allows for the implementation of all these practices, when it is not yet clear whether the CETA consideration is that of a mixed treaty or not for an agreement that has been negotiated for two years? Who tells us that for TTIP there is already a guarantee that it will be treated in a mixed manner and will thus force it to be endorsed or supported by national parliaments? And there is something else that is even more serious, because so far it was said that this validation formula requires unanimity for TTIP, and that if unanimity is not given, that is, if a Member State decides to revoke or position itself against TTIP, TTIP would no longer enter into force. And this is presented to us as the maximum possible democratic umbrella; in some way, as the guarantee or endorsement that the TTIP must be very good or will not exist. But what do we see with CETA and what do we see with provisional implementation? That it does not require a unanimous vote from the Council, that it requires only a majority vote and that, therefore, it opens the doors to the possibility of temporary implementation of the TTIP in our lives. And that, from our point of view, from the point of view of Euskal Herria Bildu – and not only of Euskal Herria Bildu, but more and more organizations – is the last nail in the coffin in which transnationals are subjecting the European Union to rights and freedoms. The social and democratic Europe that has been invoked in this House many times to swell up and to swell up in a Europeanist spirit, that of Delors and so on, has little to do with the Europe of merchants, the Europe of commerce and the traders in which the European Union has become. Because today – and that's the problem – is that the lex mercadoria (the law of the market) goes beyond human rights, goes beyond social rights and goes beyond labour rights. Not only does it pass over, it not only sits above: it tramples on them; it tramples on all rights (humans, social and labor) in favor of the lex mercadoria. And the only thing we demand of this government with this initiative is that it be positioned, and we say so openly: that it be positioned. And let him do so, moreover, from the possibility that we all have all the information, that he collects information and disseminates it, that he moves from that observer position to an actor position. Because we cannot be told that there are no studies to see the impact that it can have on job creation or job loss, or that there are no studies to know whether the quality of employment that can be generated according to the sectors that are to be created, and also those that are to be destroyed, generates a more or less unequal labour market, more or less just or more or less stable. Because we don't need to be told that SMEs are in favor if the CAF is the one who speaks and then come out, for example, other organizations like Ekai Center saying it's going to be a disaster for SMEs. What we want is for these studies to be made, for this public debate to be made, for it to be not just us and us who bring this debate continuously, but for the Government itself, convinced as it can – and I do not presume it to be bad – that the TTIP can have more positive than negative factors, to provoke this debate, to bring it in and to sustain it. And finally, there should be a consultation with the citizens of this country. We say that the first thing is people and that consulting is never bad. It is also said that voting is never bad and that is why we are going to see each other soon; therefore, let us consult the citizens of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, who will not be bad either. I'm done with the idea that I've ripped off. This is not a confrontation between the United States of Europe and the European Union. I didn't put it that way. It's not even about whether the trade is bad or good. I accept that there has to be trade, what I do not want is this type of trade, and what I do not want is for this type of transnational-backed trade to be imposed on people's rights. This is the eternal debate of confrontation of models and is the debate between capital and dignified life; it is the debate between obedience to transnationals or the sovereignty of peoples, popular sovereignty. And it is the debate between the neoliberal economy with its three famous sectoralizations of society – that is, a third lives very well, a third survives and a third is driven by exclusion – and a model where the whole society has all the resources to be able to have levels of equality, solidarity and justice.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Passing to the non-correction teams round Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u67	Thank you, President. Mr Matute, if you tell us to be careful about what is being negotiated there and that finally the content of that agreement can harm us, I agree with you. Indeed, we cannot stand idly by, we must be very careful about what is being negotiated there, and, of course, depending on what is being agreed upon, our critical or non-critical position is also raised. I believe that in recent months all political groups have been able to explain our position on that treaty which, on the other hand, does not yet exist. Therefore, it is an important issue, I agree. But I'm saying, let's see what's left of it, and in the meantime, it's not that we propose to keep our arms crossed, but neither try to scare people or be overly pessimistic. It all ends well, and the great beneficiaries are the citizens. We'll see about that. You, in any case, present us with a preventive motion. It proposes that this Parliament reject the hidden and dark negotiations between the United States of America and the European Union. I do not know whether it rejects what are the simple negotiations or the fact that these negotiations are hidden and dark. Of course, we are against these being hidden and dark negotiations. We have denounced it and even this Parliament has taken this position. Let them negotiate well, and of course let us be careful to see exactly what is being negotiated. He then points out that you are also against the contents that are being negotiated. I think we have to wait to see the final result and depending on that we have a clearer position. In any case, I say that this Parliament and all political groups and political parties, both here and in Congress and in the European Parliament, have explained what our demands are and have expressly indicated what the red lines are and what we would not be willing to accept. You also propose that debate be encouraged in society, which we all share, as we have claimed. Society needs to know exactly what is being negotiated, and from what is known the debate is opened and from there also people can decide with their vote what exactly they stand for. And finally he asks us to urge the government, in the event of a hypothetical signature, to stand firm against him. I say the same thing to you: depending on what exactly the content is. But, in any case, to me, what I think is that the motion you raise is short, it is very weak, it is undemanding. If you compare the motion that you registered today with the transactional that we signed all the groups on June 11, 2015, you will be able to see that the transactional that we signed all the groups is much more demanding and much clearer and says things very quiet, at least some of them. The European Commission is urged to ensure due transparency throughout the negotiation process. There is talk of ensuring a high level of consumer protection, data, health and safety, avoiding so-called social, labour, fiscal and environmental dumping, protecting the future sustainability of the so-called European model of social welfare. We are talking about scrupulously respecting European quality standards, we are talking about even guaranteeing our own competences as an autonomous community. Finally, I believe that many more things are said than the motion you have raised. We have finally not tabled any amendments, but we have in mind that compromise which was recorded on 11 June. I like more what the Employment Advisor said during the interpellation – I thought everything he said was perfectly reasonable – than his political position vehemently against any kind of negotiation you share with Mr. Donald Trump. I think it's much more reasonable what I could read to the counselor. I also think it is much more reasonable to propose this compromise text, which was adopted a year ago. We would agree with the agreement, if this agreement is finally agreed, if we consider that the content of the agreement is good for society as a whole. Otherwise, we'll report him. But this is something that we are already putting forward in the different institutions where we have representation: what are the red lines, what is the welfare state we want to protect, the citizens above anything, etc. I think that the different political parties are in general up to date, that is, we are not so silly as to be fooled so easily. I mean, then there will be each other's political position, but, I mean, sharing their concern about the matter, I trust that, if there is finally agreement, this agreement will improve people's lives. And, of course, our clear bet on a social and democratic Europe above all else. In that sense, the market can also help, because without a market there is no freedom and surely there is no democracy either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u69	Mr Matute, it brings back a false debate. You are not against the Transatlantic Treaty, the TTIP. He's not against it, nor are the others in favor. It doesn't exist. It doesn't exist. So don't come here and ask us things that don't exist. It does not exist, and even less so, you do not come to say that you are in favour of trade, because it is quite the opposite and it is also very contradictory. I, in the other debate we had when we had it the other time I said, "Man, if it was with Putin, as his hero, then it would be worth it." You have been complaining for years, rightly so, about the economic embargo from the United States to Cuba. Yes, because it seemed very bad to you that the United States banned trade with Cuba, that was the embargo. Apparently, it seemed to you that the United States was trading with Cuba, I say, didn't it? But now it seems very bad for the United States to trade with Europe; then, we are against it. Sure! Sure! Is that what you're L Iberalizing international trade is good or is it bad? When we get happy because our companies export a lot, are we wrong or are we okay? When the Mondragon Group exports a lot, do we agree? Does that sound bad to us? Do we agree? Do we want you to export more, create more jobs? What is your approach? And let's stop talking about ethereal things, let's talk about things that are, right? The first free trade treaty we entered into was in the European Union. Is it bad? Shall we go out? Be a little consistent. All those evils that you said come with these treaties, let's hear, the first, that of the European Union. Shall we go out? Why isn't he moderately brave and says, "Yes, I want to get out, we plan to get out"? Why are you hiding? If that's the bottom line! Yeah, of course, that's the bottom line. Why are the richest countries in the world, those with the highest per capita income, those with the highest GDP, the world's leading international trade ranking? Among those who are all those who look so bad to you: Sweden, Germany, Norway, Japan, Canada, United States, United Kingdom, Finland, New Zealand... We're not. We're at 28. Those are. Why are those living on the subsidy always opposed, for example, to French farmers, who have been opposing in Europe for decades, for example, African countries, which are full of multinationals and rich uncles, being able to export their products to Europe? This will sound like you, because I had this debate with you a long time ago. Of course, and you were also opposed to that, yes, yes, because, of course, they are the rich of the world. I'm going to tell you... look, everybody knows, they've told you 40 times, we've told you a long time ago, that this treaty, it's very complicated to get out. You know why? And you know it and you have said it, but then you contradict it: because all European parliaments have to ratify it. And although in southern Europe it is where most popular acceptance has, because it is where the most unemployment is..., the most enthusiastic country with this treaty is Greece, followed by Spain, yes, and followed by Portugal, with more than 60%. And, do you know which country is the least graceful? There are two: Germany and Austria. Germany and Austria. Of course, by chance the richest are among the richest in Europe. Do you really believe that an American or European multinational has problems working in America or Europe? Or do small and medium-sized enterprises have more problems in exporting and adapting to the parameters that are required at each site? You, who do you think has the most problems? The multinational, really? Do you know any multinationals that don't work in Europe today, today, that aren't selling us their products today? Do you know any of them? Yeah? Well, then take it and tell me, see if we can match it. Well, and labor law, man, me, what do you want me to tell you, that I'm now defending our labor law... listen, delighted, welcome to the club. Of course, we are going to defend the labour legislation that we have in front of this international treaty that is going to undermine our rights under our labour legislation, right? This nonsense of yours, which I told you, yes, yes, it is that I told you a year ago too. Sure! Hey, did joining the European Union mean that all labour laws were the same? Well, no, then, no; then, do not come saying I do not know what things are not true nor are they going to be true in any case. Then there are some things that I..., by commenting on one thing, look..., and also, apparently, we Europeans are fantastic and Americans and Canadians are poor starving people who deceive everyone, and they are fools, and they are fools. I'm going to give you just two examples of those that you've criticized a lot with this homogenizing criteria. And I'm going to give you concrete examples. European pastry machines cannot be sold in the United States, but in the rest of the world, because they do not meet American health criteria, and European oysters cannot be sold in the United States because in the United States the health criterion is made on the oyster itself, to see if it is good, while in Europe it is made on water quality. Do you find it wrong to homogenize criteria in those two examples that I am putting to you? And in any case, I'll tell you..., look, I think this was an opportunity that there was in Obama's time, the United States raised it in Obama's time to Europe, the United States has raised it in Asia and they've already got it underway. But I have to admit that you have some very powerful allies and probably will not come up with any kind of agreement because, of course, you keep in mind that you agree with people who have won the elections in France, such as Jean-Marie Le Pen, and therefore, moreover, pardon, yes, yes, exactly with the same arguments, with the same arguments that you have given here today, the same, the same campaign, the same campaign. And they've already told you, but there's also another partner, who's a gentleman, Donald Trump, who may soon be president in the United States, who literally said he's betting on delaying signatures, like the TTIP pacts, and bringing down the trade pact he has today with Canada and Mexico. Therefore, with these partners, and finally, as we see things in Germany, I very much doubt that Europeans will come to have an international treaty with the United States of free trade, among other things because it seems that the interests of others, always particular, will prevail against the general interest.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u71	Thank you, President. Counselor, good morning. The Socialist Group, Mr Matute, does not share the objectives you set in your motion because, ultimately, what is being said a priori is that the negotiations are rejected and, ultimately, that the free trade and investment agreement between Europe and the United States is not reached. And the Basque Socialists, on the other hand, do not reject the negotiations between the European Union and the United States, and we do consider it a good thing to reach an agreement, but not any agreement, and that is why we have established publicly and also in the European Parliament a series of red lines that mark the inviolable limits of the negotiations between Europe and the United States. We have spoken on several occasions in the Basque Parliament, both in plenary and in committees, about the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Association between the European Union and the United States, and it is curious that this issue is included in the plenary debate of the Basque Parliament every time there is an election campaign. It passed with the European elections, it passed with the municipal and outlying elections of 2015, and now we are already in the pre-campaign of the general elections, and it is clear that this treaty is the most important trade agreement that would take place between the European Union and the United States, and with a huge economic impact, which I am not going to explain today because we have already done so on previous occasions. And precisely because of that importance, because of the dimensions and consequences of the treaty in many areas, negotiations are not easy, they are not simple. And so from 2013 until today 13 rounds of negotiations have been held and no agreement has yet been reached. And it is true that some of the criticisms made of how to conduct the negotiations, above all the lack of transparency, have been true, and it has indeed been a mistake, the biggest mistake the Barroso Commission could have made was secrecy about the TTIP. The information policy of Europe and the Government of Spain regarding the rounds of negotiations has been shone by their absence, which is a clumsy policy when the information becomes essential to respond to citizens' concerns and to have a serious and rigorous debate on the impact of this agreement. That is why the Basque Socialists welcome the European Parliament's resolution of 8 July 2015, which sets out the red lines to these negotiations on the agreement. Thus, with regard to transparency, civil society participation and public and political dissemination, the resolution contains an entire heading which states: "Enhancing the transparency of negotiations, implementing the recommendations of the European Ombudsman, in particular those relating to rules on public access to documents. "To reach an agreement with the US side to improve transparency, including access by MEPs to all documents. "Promote an even closer commitment to member states to ensure broad public debate based on facts." And in honor of the truth, in recent times, it is true that documents and conclusions from these rounds of negotiations have been declassified. And if forms are important, even more so are the substance and content of the negotiations. And that is why the Socialists seem to us to be key to the proposals of that resolution of the European Parliament of 8 July on the limits of negotiation in the face of the major disputes that have arisen. I would highlight among them those referring to workers' rights, the risk of public services, private arbitration and other issues such as the status quo or trinket clause, environmental rights, the loss of sovereignty or legislative capacity, data protection and cultural and linguistic diversity, which some of them you mentioned, Mr Matute. On workers' rights, this was and is an unnegotiable point for socialists. No treaty in Europe with any other country can go beyond the labour rights of our workers. And the resolution calls on negotiators to include an ambitious, binding and fully enforceable sustainability chapter aimed at the full ratification, expansion and effective implementation of the eight core conventions of the International Labour Organization and the ILO Decent Work Agenda. There is also a need to ensure that the implementation of labour provisions and their compliance are subject to an effective follow-up process involving the social partners and representatives of civil society, and to the general dispute settlement mechanism applicable to the whole agreement. With regard to the risks posed by European public services, that resolution expressly refers to the exclusion of current and future services of general interest and services of general economic interest; among others, water, health, social services, social security and education, which are excluded from the scope of this agreement, in order to ensure that national authorities and, where appropriate, local authorities continue to have full rights to introduce, adopt, maintain or reject any measures relating to the organisation, financing and provision of public services, as provided for in the Treaties and the negotiating mandate of the European Union. This exclusion shall apply irrespective of how such services are provided and financed. Private arbitration; the resolution seeks to replace the investor-state dispute resolution mechanism with a new system that is subject to democratic principles and control, in which possible cases are dealt with in a transparent manner by professional, independent and publicly appointed judges in public hearings and which includes an appeal mechanism that ensures consistency of judicial decisions, respects the jurisdiction of the courts of the European Union and the Member States, and that private interests cannot undermine public policy objectives. And in September 2015, the European Social Democrats introduced in the Commission a new model for settling disputes, of which the most remarkable – to be brief – will be that there will be judges and non-arbitrators, who will be appointed directly and jointly by the European Union and the partner country with which a trade and investment agreement is concluded. The European Commission envisages 15 judges in the Investment Court and six judges in the Appeals Court, and they will not be able to engage in any activity that might interfere with their duties or work as lawyers in cases of disputes, and it is also intended to publish all documents online so that they are accessible to the public. The resolution also sets out the trinket clause, which only the services explicitly listed will be open to foreign service providers; services of general interest – water, health, education – are excluded, these current and future services and also services of general economic interest, regardless of how they are financed. And the Commission is required to guarantee the ability of governments to regain ownership of a service and the power to legislate in the public interest, while avoiding the possibility of arbitrary and unjustified discriminatory decisions against foreign investors. And the July 2015 resolution also reflects the need to respect the European environmental standards of the European Union, full respect for the regulatory systems established on both sides of the Atlantic and the role of the European Parliament and its democratic control in the European Union's regulatory processes. The capacity of national, regional and local authorities to legislate on their own policies (in particular social and environmental policies) is fully preserved. These are the red lines... some of them, because I still had more, but it won't give me time. These are, as I say, the red lines, and it seems to me that the important and important thing is that the European Parliament itself has approved them. This is not a good thing that some political groups can think of, but it is reality, red lines, as they mark certain negotiations. So, it's important, it's a step. There is one before and after that resolution by the European Parliament which also addresses the most important doubts or threats that have been raised and which coincide by a large majority also with doubts and concerns that the Spanish, European and, of course, Basque Socialists also have. It is true that this resolution gives us more peace of mind, at least we will not be beyond expectations. We will be controlling, because we understand that no agreement can be accepted at any price or agreement that would lead to a step backwards or to European standards of environmental protection or European standards of social and labour rights. For the Basque Socialists, the amendment that we adopted last June, last year, in this Parliament, and the five determinations that came in that transacted amendment are absolutely and fully consistent with all the determinations of the red lines that the European Parliament has approved, and we therefore did not consider it the time to amend it, because we believe that what needs to be done is to develop it, and therefore we have not tabled any amendments to your motion, Mr Matute. I have the impression that let's say what we say here, you're going to give the same thing, Mr. Matute. Its aim is not to ask for the position and opinion of the Basque parliamentary groups today, but at least its option and approach is to reject the negotiations, to reject the agreement a priori. Therefore, we understand that this agreement would be beneficial if it is framed by those conditions that I have raised, which are some of them. It has 21 pages of the European Parliament's resolution, and therefore it would be a very extensive intervention that is not appropriate. The case is that we have red lines that prohibit certain issues, in case it could serve you for your work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Eubertarians. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, ma'am. Chief department, congressmans, good noon to all. In an anecdotal and equally dedramatizing the debate a little bit, but to underline the importance of international trade and trade I can point out to you, Mr Matute, that the first free trade treaty signed by a Basque institution occurred and was signed in 1482 with England. That institution that signed that agreement was the outlying territory of Gipuzkoa, and it also occurred after the signing of the peace treaty of which the same actors had been protagonists in 1474. If I have time, then I will tell you about Bretton Woods, in this case, 1944, its philosophy, what Keynes advocated, but basically I think that international trade should also take it as an antidote to avoid commercial protectionism, certain controls that can lead us to certain situations of autarchy and that can be, as History has taught us, the spark of wars, even world wars. Well, I'll go straight to the point. You've done some facts in a firm, clear way, you're convinced. In my opinion, all these things are myths, fear and fictions. You're based on fictions to make a few checks, because it's fictional that this pact is already signed, that it's almost already in effect. And that's not true. This fundamental fiction may benefit your political positions, but fiction is fiction, and nothing else. I would emphasise three principal traits in this treaty: partly, partly, transparency. A certain agreement has never been negotiated with so much transparency, that I can say it frankly. Perhaps there were some points of darkness at first, but that was correct. That's true too. There are websites, documents, auditions, consultations. A short time ago, May 27, the European Board has released another pact of 300 pages. On the 30th of May there will be a public audition, so I believe that there are many instruments and resources at this moment, and many of them to follow this negotiation in as clear a manner as possible. And I know that we understand as a Basque people that we and he have rights. And we'd like to be the political subject of international law. That will come, but we have to deal with our ways as well as we do at this moment. I say it as distinctly as possible, because we cannot refuse the logic of the negotiation. And you must understand that, too. The bargainings which you carry where you are in command are not given from the streaming, so there is a negotiationr of logic. And I think that what some people are asking for is absurd, and that we would harm ourselves if these demands were revealed. All negotiations, all negotiations, require discretion. That's essential. And I think that the distant confession that is my colleague in the week, made a good impression on that commission you've just mentioned. A few months ago, from the end of the year, the Ombudsman or interrogation of Europe said that discretion was necessary, and therefore a balance in it. Then, as a second characteristic, political guarantee. Whether it be a mixed agreement or not, beyond all that, I think we ought to be clear of the consent of the Parliament of Europe, and of the parliaments of the 28 European State. And this is, as it were, a mixed covenant or not that I don't care about. We must politicalally think about it, and we can be sure of it both the Parliaments of the Amazon and the parliaments of Europe, and that the parliaments of the States ought to be approved by them, and there is nothing but seeing the weather. We may, therefore, say that the procedure of this treaty is at the beginning and at the end of it with a politicalber, though once more we insist that we will want another paper as Euskade. The third feature, the negotiation, as has been mentioned here, has been described by Madame Halifax and Corcuera, who has a game-spittle. Trade isn't doing this, no bargainers can do whatever they want, they have a warrant. And the other having given this order, or after that, the institution which ought to have received the treaty, namely, the Parliament of Europe. I'm not going to read, because Mrs. Corcuera has read what the Parliaments of Europe are, if you like, criteria or red lines given to traders. But to make our position clear, negotiate and negotiate, we think that we may have positive consequences to Europe and to Basque Europe, to the economy of Europe and Eucharadia, to small and average companies. And if I have time, I'll talk about it later. We must give this negotiation a chance, and be careful what our goals are, to follow our principles and this negotiation at once. Nik esango nuke, baita ere, eta Europaren ikuspuntu battik..., here, what in the background is equally underlying is, apart from other interpretations by those who oppose the treaty, to be negotiated, are attitudes of a certain complex and of a certain fear and of certain anti-Americanism in principle. It's like I'm confused. The truth is that Europe, from a nominal point of view, is stronger, it is bigger than the United States. The United States is the world's first economy, the United States surpasses us in many parameters, that is obvious, but potentially Europe, and nominally also, is stronger than the United States. We therefore believe that the vision of such agreements and negotiations must be turned around, and that it must be dealt with in another way, because for us this must represent an opportunity, for Europe and for Euskadi it must represent an opportunity: the negotiation and the signing of this agreement. We have to lose the complex and we have to rationalize the debate and explain clearly the current state of affairs without falling into falsehoods and certain myths and fears. Because, let's see, it's a unique opportunity for Europeans and Basques to set global benchmarks for European standards. With closer cooperation, I mean, Mr Matute, between the most open economies and democracies in the world, we have the opportunity to place our standards as a global reference and to avoid a degradation of the conditions in line that mark some of the emerging powers. It's about seeing it differently. Myths and fictions. I am not going to go too far, but, well, I can refer to the official letter sent to us by the European Commission Office in Madrid, where, in the last paragraph, it says that "the Commission will not consider in this negotiation any provision that can give priority to purely commercial or economic efficiency objectives in relation to the protection of standards of protection in the field of public health, the environment, consumers or labour protection which are contained in European legislation". It's an official letter, I imagine you have it... so it's on the European Commission's website, signed by Mr Owen, where you say... it's absolutely official. Well, I barely have time left, but, well, obviously, I could talk to you about Euskadi. You have already been told that multinationals really do not need this kind of agreement in order to be able to operate and that, if this benefits anyone, it is precisely small and medium-sized enterprises, which are approximately 80% of businesses in Europe and also in Euskadi (in Euskadi and throughout Europe). Some data, if you can use it. The Basque Country is the third autonomous community to export to the United States. In the last four years the United States has been the third destination of Basque exports – see – after France and Germany, and the eighth origin of imports. Finally, there is a whole series of data and studies on which sectors could benefit.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u73	Finish up, Mr. Uribe Housekeeper. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Yes, right away. But I would like to highlight one aspect also in this regard: I believe that this agreement, if it is a good agreement – and for that we will follow it, and we believe that there are a number of political guarantees that they have to do so – will go in line with the promotion of two major vectors and areas that we defend for the Basque economy in general, for our production system and for companies, which are the vectors of innovation and internationalisation. And they are two vectors that are intimately linked, because internationalization implies more demanding, more sophisticated, more remote markets...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u74	Eskerrik asko. Eskerrik asko, Uribe-Etxebarria jauna. URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: The competitive tension of internationalisation that has to incorporate innovation is transferred to the entire value chain and jobs are safer and wages... Barkatu, President Andrea.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u75	No, no, go finish. Beast txanda beat badaukazu... URIBE-ETXEBARRIA APALATEGI jaunak: And the wages are higher, of the internationalized companies.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Matute. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u77	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Don't worry, Mr. Uribe-Etxebarria, that after exhausting the extension there was no penalty..., I saw him there, forcing to the limit... I wanted to comment on one question: I respect everything that has been said and I also appreciate the tone of the debate, I do not think it makes any more sense for the debate to be bronchive than it can be and we can explain what has been said. But there is one thing that, of course, I cannot share in any way: you were talking about that multinationals and transnationals are not interested in this agreement. Tell them to stop spending money uselessly, they have spent more than 200 million euros promoting the 13 rounds of negotiations that have taken place, with 95% of face-to-face meetings by transnationals and only 5% by social or trade union organisations. I'm telling you, not to be interested in them, they're playing patrons too long. But I don't believe in that logic, it's also a myth, it's also one of these irrational logics that move some of us to keep us in myths, but it doesn't seem, it doesn't look like transnationals are in that game. And already put to speak of myths and disassembly myths, I point out one thing, you have spoken of the appearance of your partner, of the intervention of your partner in the commission; for, also to serve to disassembly myths: I do not think that all people of the PNV are right, wear the jersey knotted to the shoulder and have to think I do not know what things, believe me not. Whoever knows me on your bench... just like you don't, but whoever knows me on your bench knows I don't think so. I am saying this so that we also understand the limits of the debate. That I defend my positions with intensity and that I also believe them does not mean that I have to be sectarian, and that I defend my positions with intensity is something very different from changing my positions according to the intensity that the government is interested in, because you really fall into histrionicism. Now I'm not addressing you, I'm looking over there because the whole bench is there. Besides, in any case, as you won't have the right to allusion, as you haven't left it to me before... As I was saying, one more question, Mr Uribe-Etxebarria, which does not move me from anti-Americanism, which I pointed out in my first intervention – as I had written it and did not give you time to correct it – that what moves me is a logic of confrontation with a model that enshrines the market above people's rights, that is what moves me. That it may seem good or bad, that it may seem to you that the need to change the economic framework to bring it to a framework of the lex mercadoria, of primacy of the markets over the rights and the basic laws..., which is necessary in that context. That is your opinion; I will have to respect it, I will fight it dialectically and pointly, but I am not moved by anti-Americanism; that is, in Canada and the United States they are also protesting against this treaty. Mr. Damborenea told me earlier that I have some "milk" allies, that is, that I have Donald Trump's ally, that I have..., he's wrong in one thing, and that I correct him now, which is what I was trying to say and you kept raising your tone, thinking that I was saying to him I don't know what. It is not Jean-Marie Le Pen, the historic leader of the National Front, of the extreme right of France, who won the elections: it was his daughter, Marine Le Pen. Jean-Marie Le Pen threw away the party's daughter, which you didn't know how to do with Fraga, but, well, those are already other issues and on other issues. I mean, emotional bonds and ideological beliefs go as far as you want. I was talking about negotiating logic and that you can't do it by streaming. Nobody asks that, but, man, let it be said today that this has been a transparent negotiating logic... It is that its own advisers, two, Mrs Tapia and Mr Toña, have already acknowledged that it has been quite opaque, that it has been very opaque, not to say otherwise. I don't want to go any further in what they've said. That is to say, there does not seem to have been transparency, it does not seem that this bargaining logic of discretion is what we are talking about. What we are talking about is that until there have been no leaks here we have not learned of many issues, and that the variable position that they are having different European political tendencies has to do with the concerns that they are getting into when they know what they are negotiating. That's the reality we're living in. One final question, with regard to the excluded sectors; here is the eternal debate, whether or not the excluded sectors give so that we are calm or not. I know and am aware of the position of the European Social Democracy, or of the European socialist parties, or the ideological sphere from which they want to claim. What you should also say is what position you are going to hold with the TISA, because, of course, depending on the position with the TISA, many of the red lines that you are establishing fall, fall because the TISA is the one that affects public services and because it is not the same to say that you are going to guarantee certain services, that it may not be wrong, and that you are not saying that you are not going to remunicipalize or that you are going to ban some that have already been privatized, that is being said in the TISA and that is enshrined in the CETA, and you are currently validating it. And that's what worries us, and this is not a sick obsession on anyone's part. The only thing, already to finish, because the debate gives for what it gives. Mr Damborenea, you and I live in parallel worlds: you tell me that there is no TTIP and here we talk about the thirteenth round of negotiations; Commissioner Malmström tells you, but you don't care, there is no TTIP. There will probably not be the wine from Rioja made in the United States that they will start doing soon and that I don't know what it will look like to you; I don't know if it will worry you more than oysters or less, or if the combination of both of you understand that you are winning or losing. My framework labour legislation is the Workers' Statute, none of its labour reforms, which have been an infringement of workers' rights. And, if my connection with Putin, China, Donald Trump and I don't know who, also with Bernie Sanders, and also with Corbyn, who are referents, in any case, of the socialist lords present here, if my connection with all that was true, if my power to summon allies was as true and as broad as what you have described, the best thing they could do is to disarm and deliver the weapons in this position.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Myst. Mr. Maneiro... He mustn't speak. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Matute, I don't know if we live in parallel worlds or some live in Yupi's, but, incidentally, they always coincide with the extreme right and the extreme left. It's just that, casually, they always coincide. Look, they coincide so much that in Greece they govern together, they coincide so much that in France, father and daughter, father and daughter, the National Front coincides with the extreme left on this issue. And they match so much that even in the United States, do you know who they match? Well, Sanders and Donald Trump. That's why I'm telling you that you agree with very important people and that we probably never get to vote for this treaty, this treaty that could be a good opportunity, or not. Or not. Which is a little weird, and I don't know if it's about the parallel worlds... look, I don't know anyone who feels like negotiating with someone else voluntarily to get worse. I don't know if in his experience in Bildu that has happened to him, and so, as it comes from this parallel world, he takes it and moves it here, but I don't know anyone who does that. What's more, when someone starts negotiating with someone and sees that it's going to go wrong, he says, "Well, no business, I don't sign and the story's over." But you obviously don't have a different, different parallel experience, and that's why you ask us that it's best not to sit down and negotiate. That is what is asking us here, that Europe does not negotiate; listen, and why can't we negotiate if we might be doing well? Maybe we're doing very well, maybe jobs are created. Of course, then we have a non-law proposal on youth employment. Well, maybe this was an opportunity for our companies to create more jobs for those young people. And you, why are you so afraid to negotiate? Do they negotiate so badly all the time, and then sign and lose? Is that your political, personal, and so on? I have to tell you, really, that is, I can't understand anyone refusing to negotiate when they offer you an opportunity, which I also tell you is going to end Mr Obama's mandate, that's clear, and when, precisely, the most opposed in Europe are the countries that most multinationals have, the most multinational ones have: Germany, Austria..., well, we're not going to talk about Britain, because anyway, they're there with Brexit, right? They still do it apart. They still do it apart. I don't know why, being able to improve, you don't want to do it, except that your policy is "Everything, the worse, the better, you don't have to try to do anything, you don't have to try to improve", because, if things go wrong, then, the better for you, I guess. Well, I've forgotten, here they do have another partner, who are Podemos's, who are also in the same story, but, well, the extreme lefts, obviously, coincide there. They're missing here, in Spain, finding a match... no, no, you see it doesn't match me. They still need to find their same name in Spain, right?, so that they can feel fully identified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u80	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Madame Corcuera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u81	Thank you, President. I believe that the debate is exhausted; it was exhausted from that moment when you read the motion, because, Mr Matute, you were not even predisposed to us convincing you of anything, not even to be presented with any transacted amendment, with which to reject the negotiations and reject the agreement itself was your demand. The rest, a little more "birds and flowers." And I understand that what we have come to explain to you – at least, I – is that, understanding that there may be threats or that this agreement may raise the question of whether it is a threat or an opportunity for Europe, there really is evidence that the European Parliament is not going to be allowed to sneak through the back door issues that you, at least here, have pointed out as threats and that you have considered substantial. The amendment we made and adopted in June last year here in this Parliament is in the same line and has the same consistency as the considerations and recommendations and red lines that the European Parliament itself set out in July also last year, on 8 July, and I believe that it is perhaps the most important and can give peace of mind. Security, right? No, but, of course, no one is going to leave this agreement unchecked, unattended, unexpected for what interests him, for what has an economic impact on the economies; above all, on the European one. And, therefore, we will continue to be expectant, believing that it would be best to reach a good agreement, but, as I said before, not any agreement. Yes to a good agreement, with respect for the European rights and standards that we have achieved in social matters, in labour matters and in the field of services. You commented that, man, you had doubts about the position of socialists or social democrats in Europe, because it seems that the TISA is going another way, and what I would say to you is what you were also told a week ago in this House: the TISA can become the gateway to many of the serious problems that we intend to avoid in the TTIP, and therefore you will have to have proper treatment. The logical thing is to get it to the bodies where those lines and considerations are really marked in the negotiations, and therefore, if it has not happened with CETA, it is because no one was concerned or very few were concerned about giving importance to CETA, when it has been given to TTIP and strategies have already been marked, which to me is what I think is important. To consummated facts, as is usually said, "Past water does not move mill." Maybe that went well for this one, for the TTIP, and we'll have to be vigilant with the TISA. If you feel like it and give it time, we can also get into it in another upcoming pre-election campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Corcuera. Finally, Eucariats. Mr. Uribe Househouse, your word is yours. URIBE-ETCHEBAR. APALAGED: Thank you, Mr. President. Well, to follow a little in that certain tone of distension, look, I also bring you a story: 1994 is the year in which the Eurotunnel was inaugurated. On that occasion, because it is also not a novelty, there were also surveys and there were certain mechanisms for citizen participation around multiple issues. Then, there were some surveys that were conducted in the south of the UK, in the south of England, which you know is a territory of great prosperity, and there was not one person but more than one person who was absolutely against the eurotunnel, and when asked why they were against it they said, "Well, because through the eurotunnel we are going to invade here, in the UK, all the rats on the continent." That is to say, at the level of myths, fears, and so on, the truth is that, I do not know, the fan is very broad, and I do ask for a vote of confidence in the negotiations, in the controls that these negotiations have to have and in Europe itself. Well, I'm not going to extend between the extreme left, extreme right..., I have some names left; for, there's also some other Pole... I don't tell you in a demagogic way, because you know..., I've known him for a long time and we can agree on some things, disagree on others, but I appreciate his reflective ability and I think that, well, he doesn't show certain arguments to Tuntun. That is why, and in the same tone, it is true that, if it serves as a reflection, well, it is true what Mr Damborenea commented, that there are political parties and political leaders from the extreme left and the extreme right who are all in favour of a process of deglobalisation. But I'm going to wink at something that also leads me to reflect, and it is that about two years ago in Paris the Manifesto for a Global Democracy was presented – perhaps you know it – for a global democracy. They were Pascal Lamy, who was head of Jacques Delors' office at the European Commission, etc. And they came to propose the impetus of global democracy, promoting the existence of democratic institutions at the continental, international and global levels. They started from the idea that politics was lagging behind in relation to the economy and that the economy has become globalized, but political institutions and democracy did not. In short, what they were defending – and I think that is a reason for reflection – is a democratization of globalization, or a globalization of democracy. Because the current order obviously causes imbalances, and some of them serious, because a global economy – perhaps all of us will have to recognise it – requires global institutions, not mere intergovernmental agreements that are often fragile, fragmented, and those institutions should probably be concerned with non-proliferation of arms, equity and sustainability, and be effective and democratic. And if they are democratic, there too without any kind of complex, Euskadi would have to take its place. I have been singing to you to try to give another approach to these negotiations for Europe, a Europe that we know perfectly well is in crisis, but it can be an opportunity. And it can be an opportunity because, what I told you before, nominally Europe is stronger, it's bigger nominally than the United States. But, look, among the top 10 companies in the world there are no Europeans. Does the fact that in those 10 companies, which are all Americans, the first three are Apple, Google and Microsoft, and the sixth and seventh are Facebook and Amazon tell us anything? Twenty years ago, 7 of the top 10 companies were Japanese, today there are none. And of the 131 newly created companies thanks to innovation-oriented venture capital that have exceeded $1 billion worth, 85 – of the 131, 85 – are in the United States, 31 in China and only 13 in Europe. With this, what I want to say is that this trade agreement can strengthen Europe because there is a great revolution going on, which is the digital revolution, and Europe is lagging behind. The magnitude of this digital revolution is perfectly comparable to what the industrial revolution was, but with an element that I think is quite disturbing, and it is the meteoric speed with which it is evolving. Para Terminar, le iba a hacer algún guy de referencia a las emassas vascas, lo hecho en primera intervención. We're in favor of negotiation, not of any agreement. We believe that the European and Eucharistic models will serve to strengthen our enduring development, and that we will continue to do all these negotiations which are now taking place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u83	Thank you, Mr. Uribe. Since the discussion has ended, we will vote for the original text of Mr. Matute García de Jalón's motion. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 20; the opponents are 54; white; 0; abstentions are 0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u84	So he didn't accept it. I interrupt the entire meeting until 1:30 p.m. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-four. At three o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at thirty.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u85	Good afternoon. Number of points in theme list: "The Moment, introduced by Arri Zulaika Portillo EH Collector, concerning the necessity of taking the young men of the Basque Autonomy to prevent them from going outside. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Zulaika, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u86	While we're following this subject, good afternoons to all of us. 15 days ago, President Urkullu sent to the young men during an assignment arranged by EGI: that they ought to see him as an opportunity to go abroad in search of a job, but that is, with a challenge to come to the Basques. If the situation in which young men suffer were not so wretched, or rather, if the future of euscal society were not in danger, it would be only a phrase in its context. Thus, on the 6th of May, we entered into an interpollate by what has been said, and in this interpelation, instead of a certificate, Mr. Urkullu was confirmed in his words, which seems to us even more serious. We can all go wrong when we talk, but if that's the case, it's the most responsible thing that Mr. President didn't do. To indicate that this is a serious situation, I'm going to re-enter some data. I gave them then, but today I think it's important to remember. Since the crisis began, almost 10,000 young people have been looking for a foreign job. It shows that only the 10th of those who go abroad return four. I shall not often enter into the conditions of these young men who are found when they are turned to the left. But the situation of the young people here is not much better. Of the contracts made to the young, 95% are temporary. Looking at Solon, the young men compare him to the rest of the workmen, they charge almost eight thousand dollars a year, and 22% of their work cannot end the month. 60% of the young don't have any income. And last date: Of the ten people who live in poverty are less than six hundred years old. This is the serious situation of youth. Such expressions are, therefore, painful in this dreadful context. Comrades said that young people here are not hungry enough to start a great emigration. "Urkullu's come near Guibel." Hence the first point of our motion is, where we demand the members of the legislature to reject the words spoken by President Urcullu, the words of Arba, Bizkai, and Gipus to go out. The rate of unemployment is almost 35 percent away, and when the budget is so widely diffused, it is serious and unacceptable that the President should be allowed to go abroad. But beyond the President's words, it's obvious that the funk of young people has had a poor answer as far as they can be faced. We want young men to help us to carry their life project forward for the distraction. But besides that, many young men have no income at all, they have no chance of asking for rent to ensure their incomes. As far as I'm concerned, I'm young enough to cook and make it, but I don't think it's any good. In the 2013-2016 Employment Plan, various programmes started, but it has been shown that they have not been able to solve the problem. In the past few weeks, both Ulkullus, and Mr. Toña, announced that various programmes addressed to the young will be announced to start. On the one hand, Mr. Toñaa will make a new 1,900 contract and contract with the relebo contract for 916 contracts, total 3.000. On the other hand, two weeks later, and after our interference, Mr. Urcullu announces that he is going to direct 24 million in order to improve the efficiency of 20,000 young men, just like what he had announced at the election campaign in 2012, and then he said, "All young people in charge." The young men, when they had finished their studies, declared that they would work in order not to go abroad. In order to help 20,000 young people get their jobs, "We'll set up the necessary resources for creating jobs." On the other hand, it has been fact that he has passed by asking me to see him as an opportunity of going abroad. In this kind of legislation the measures of those who endure the preparation of young men are not put to an end. The situation is very serious, and it is essential to start the measures. That's why the second point of our motion. We're asking him to give us an engagement to conduct young politics which is not enough for us to develop integrations in young politics. But, of course, that must be connected to the commitment to increase the budget. The budget to pass from words to activities has to increase with bravery. You've got to start early politics so you don't have to stay young. Even the day before, the representatives of the EGK gave the date, and from 2001 the number of young people came down almost half-way. A serious matter, not only to the young, but to the future of the people. We do not say only that, for instance, Vidart too, reflecting on the project of Guggenheim, saw thousands of young men who were threatening the project. In short, with our proposal, we would like to reject some words which, regardless of the context in which they are said, show little empathy and a certain frivolity in a particularly sensitive subject such as the working conditions and living conditions of the young people of our country. Words, by the way, that contradict others that Councilman Toña said last year, inviting young women and women to resist and endure, and not to go abroad. Words that are the reflection and the epilogue, sad epilogue, to a legislature in which youth policies have been disappeared, both discursive and budgetary. It is urgent to turn the situation around and really start building genuine comprehensive youth policies. The data, the reality, the demography, the present and the future so demand. Given the corrections, EAJ's correction demands to follow as we follow it, and to do what we do not make fun of the rest of the organizations. And, well, it was the only chance we saw PSE's agree, the legal frame that can guarantee all young people's rights. We have, therefore, obtained a middle course with PSE, which is as follows: in the first place he receives our point, the words spoken by President Urkullu, concerning the chances of going out of the EAE, we ask him to reject what we have said. And in the second place, we ask MUDY to establish a legal frame in which the public administrations will arrange the rights and duties which are to promote the political influence of young men, to protect and facilitate the rights and liberties of young men. The euphoria of the young man will collect the autonomys of the young, the giving, and the necessary measures to enable the society of the young, in the planning, and examining, the indirect politics of the young. These policies will also include the plans for the young to return home, and also those which will guarantee the maintenance of office and quality. In this respect we have added some changes to the point of socializing, not only to set up plans for reversing young men with talent, but in general to restore all the young men who want to return. And also to set up plans that will guarantee social employment. Finally, I'd like to take advantage of saying that to vote for this medium, it's true that in the circumstances we're in, we need to start the policy that will be effective. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u88	Thank you very much, Madam President. It seems to me that I am going to be politically incorrect in this intervention, because I am not young, nor am I young, although I know that I live in a society where there are a few who are perpetual young, even if they are full of years. We are talking about a subject that is very important. We as a party, as a group, have proposed it... at the beginning of this legislature, of the previous one, of the previous one, of the previous one, of the previous one; by the way, quite alone. This is not the first time that young Basques have gone out to find work. I, since I'm not young, have memory, and I know what was going on with my generation. In my group there were two who studied Engineering: one went to Madrid, another to Barcelona and lived in the United States about 25 years ago. Another studied Architecture and left, another studied Medicine and went to Madrid. Everyone wanted to come back and none came back. Not because they didn't want to go back: because there were no conditions to go back. Because when someone goes out and works, then, in the end, boy meets girl, people make their lives, yes, of course, people make their lives, people want to move forward, people want to form their family, people want to live better, and when they say "We want to come back", then, you never give that chance that at that time could still be easier, but that today is impossible, because today both work, because, if they don't work, they have it harder. The difference is that before they went to Madrid or Barcelona, and today I know, from the generation of my children, I know people in Berlin, in Paris, in Madrid, in Dublin, in Jakarta, in Emirates, in the United States, and, obviously, it will be even more complicated that they can come back. And that's why I'm saying that the subject, anyway, is quite serious. I don't know any of the people who came out, who all wanted to go back, who could go back, because they never found anything in similar conditions to be able to go back. In this country we have been exporting people, over the past 30 years, more than 250,000 people; that is why our population has not grown in these years, we are still the same as 30 years ago, older all, right? And the problem is not the more or less fortunate statements of the lehendakari or the counselor, who also made some last year on this matter, at least curious. Because I understand that the statements of the lehendakari... Is it good for young people to go out and train and have more capacity? By all means! There are even people who pay, those who can pay for their children to master in the United States or wherever. The problem of our young people today isn't that, it's not that they go out because they're going to improve their experience and then they're going to come here to get better contracts, no; they go out because they're going to work outside, because here these skilled young people have no chance of working, and the worst of all, of all, of those I know, is that they don't even think about..., because those of my generation were all thinking about who wanted to come back, but I, what I see to the young people of today is that they don't even think about coming back, of course they won't be able to come back. And the point is not whether it's good for them to go out or not. Of course it's good to get out and then be able to come back! The issue here is: do we really, for a long time, make economic policies to create jobs – eye, good people – for those engineers, for those graduates, for those people who are prepared? Are companies coming, creating new jobs, or are we waiting for us to retire from the 60's and then there is going to be a pile of vacancies – which we still have a few years left, right? – and then youth unemployment is going to end? Because, of course, when people retire there will be new jobs, which will not even be the ones that exist today, Mr Lehendakari, they will not even be the ones that exist today. A year ago, the Basque Government launched a program called Repatriating Young Talents. And what's the success? What's the success? And what's a young talent? Is a young talent a young man who has gone to work outside because they offer him conditions that are not offered here? Well, I don't know if he's young talent or not young talent; the talent thing, each one, should look at him as he pleases. What I want to say to Mr Lehendakari – which we told him at the beginning of this parliamentary term – is that the main problem we have as a country's viability... I am the one who is not a nationalist, because all those young people who are working outside, those who are contributing well in those countries and to the social security of those countries, and they pay taxes in those countries. There. Not here, this isn't happening. And when it comes to us that this is solved with a law of youth, then, a hallucinator already in colors because, of course, if the job we are going to create with laws now, listen, then, we are going to create tomorrow urgently, single article – it is now fashionable – we are going to create 2 million jobs for young people. We all approve it unanimously tomorrow and we have already solved the problem. And this isn't a youth issue, because when you're 25 you can work, or when you're 24 or 23 you can work, you're not talking about a young person anymore, you're talking about an older person with a life plan that wants to live their independent life, and that must be made easier for them here, and people go away because they're not here. The bad thing is not that it is not there, it is not expected, and that is why we asked this government four years ago and three years ago, and two years ago, that we had to put in place policies to take a look at the economic strategy that we have been doing for a while. A few years ago, the Basque Nationalist Party itself was responsible for making policies that attracted companies. Recently, it is responsible for making policies that seem not only not to attract companies, but that some companies are moving out. Yeah, yeah, don't put that face on me, Mr. Lehendakari, you know the cases just like me. If here we're going to keep raising taxes and we're going to raise the IBI and we're going to raise everything because, of course, as in the end fewer and fewer people... You are going to get something that you are curious about, which is that we are going to turn this step into one of the fantastic asylums in Europe, with a small problem: we do not know who is going to pay the caregivers with the taxes to be collected with well-paid jobs. And, Mr Lehendakari, you can look at me as you wish, but if this government were to be blamed for something, it is for failing to meet its own budgets, the failure to implement the items intended, precisely, for entrepreneurs. Those statements also referred to the lehendakari of entrepreneurs. We have the pioneering Entrepreneurship Act in Spain, which failed to comply with article 1 at the end. In all the economic proposals covered by their budgets, implementation has been zero. Yeah, yeah, yeah, zero, zero potato, inexecution. Real investments, non-implementation. What in the budget creates employment, inexecution. Man, if it were because of Lanbide's intermediation rate we would have twice as much unemployment as at the beginning of the legislature, which gives the feeling – and not so much sensation – that the economy goes beyond what the government proposes.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u89	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists represent the group. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u90	Thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Indeed, what the Socialist Group is clear is that this government does not develop youth policies. He makes great headlines, talks about programs, talks about plans, talks about... It depends on what moment and depends on what policies of entrepreneurs, on these things that Mr Damborenea has told us, but that in the moment of truth everything is disguised as that word that so much likes the Directorate of Youth of the PNV, which is transversality. Youth policy is a cross-cutting policy that we can find in all departments, but that really does not end up in anything. And, really, the Socialist Group does not say so, because it is true that no one has yet said so, but in this Parliament we have been working for a few months on a youth paper which, in fact, we do not know very well what it is going to end up with because it has had more amendments than almost a law, but which have been used by many groups to talk about each of the areas in which it is developing, always related to youth. And, indeed, there were only complaints there, there were only findings that, indeed, there are no concrete policies that attempt to solve the problem of youth, and today we are faced with a motion that presents EH Bildu trying, well, I don't know if to solve anything, because the thing about the fulfillments with you is not going, but at least put white on black to see a little what is going on. Indeed, there is no one in that paper who has appeared, except, of course, the Director of Youth, as it cannot be otherwise, who has said good things about what is going on with this Government. And why? Because, in the end, youth is that collective that, of course, affects employment, affects health, affects social policies, affects equality policies, affects everything. And, therefore, it is the perfect excuse to talk about that transversality, but we have not finished concretely on anything. The diagnosis, we all share it, we are all surrounded by young people, although I, Mr Damborenea, would define myself as a young person, but, well, we are surrounded by younger people than I still am, and we know the problems of labour access, which from there all the others come out, the problems to have a life project, the problems of emancipation, problems to create a family and everything that this entails. And, then, you, Mr Lehendakari, in a statement that I believe to be unfortunate in a political act, that it is true that many more things were said than was highlighted in that headline about youth, first you say that the Basque Government is not about creating jobs, that for that there are companies, that you, what you do is creating a public offer – which little, everything has to be said – and then you invite young people to this "Well, it's okay to go out because you internationalize your formation". So, when all that happens, which is true, Mr Damborenea, that this is not from the generation of those born in the 80s or 90s, that this comes from many years, it must be recognized that there is now much more. Since the economic crisis began more than 5,000 young people have left Euskadi, and as Mrs Zulaika said, in 2001 there was a recognition of 448,000 young people and in 2014 there are 290,000. That is a problem, but not a problem only for those young people who are leaving and who are probably not going to come back because or do not find a similar economic situation that solves their life approaches or simply because they start a vital project elsewhere and prefer to stay where they are. The problem is for the future of the country, because when we are always telling young people who are part of the future and who need to be trained and given opportunities and who need to be loaded with those better trained and licensed formations who know languages as no one knows, it turns out that the Basque Government does not finish proposing anything. So, what am I getting at with all this? I want to get to the point that it seems to me that the law of youth, that legal tool that the PNV does not know why it has so badly and does not want there to be a law of youth, when all the autonomous communities, or almost all (Aragon, Andalusia, Canary Islands, Balearic Islands, Castile and León, Navarre, Valencia, Catalonia, La Rioja) already have a law of youth, even La Rioja, which is a smaller autonomous community, developed a law of youth because it was demanded by the youth groups, by its Youth Council, and the government understood that it should have it; for the PNV is committed to that everything that goes by framing something within the law of youth is not. And it is true that, in the legislature in which Patxi López was lehendakari, he brought a bill that for a more political problem related to youth ended up not coming out; for we have always believed that the law is a necessary tool. We will not deceive anyone or cheat on the lonely: a Basque youth law is not the panacea and it will not solve each and every one of the problems that youth has, that is, we are aware, as we believe that the Housing Law does not solve all the housing problems of the Autonomous Community, but we understand that it is a fundamental tool. Why? Because it provides legal coverage and, therefore, many of the problems and situations experienced by young people could be framed within that legal instrument; because governments would be required to make concrete policies, fleeing from that transversality that ultimately does not materialize in anything, requires commitment, requires compliance and orders policy to provide solutions. As I say, indeed, everything is not solved by a law of youth, but it is true that today there is a direction that tries to develop together with the municipalities and the parliaments through plans that develop within the administration, that the municipalities, I recognize that they do what they can with the money they have, but it ends up fading a little bit what is really to be done with this collective that today should be more concerned, in my opinion, with what it does. And why am I saying this? Because in the end it has been almost four years in which we have wandered, we have continued to talk about this group, we have continued to say no to a youth law, we have continued to listen to the Youth Council making reports on specific issues, it has also done on the subject of employment and those young people who are forced to leave, and yet once that report is presented – which to me seems to be a hard report in the diagnosis made by the EGK – it has not been received by the government either "Before this, let's raise this". There was nothing. It was presented in Parliament, I don't know if it was presented in any other forum, but it was not left at all. We have the Youth Observatory, which reports on each of the situations experienced by this group, the Youth Directorate explains to us each and every one of the programmes, but at the time of truth, if we have to analyse what is done, what is done by this Government so that young people do not have to leave – let them leave what they want, because there are always groups of young people who want to leave, and, of course, if they have the opportunity and the desire to do so, let them do it – nothing has been done but headlines. And you, the other day, in Mrs Zulaika's motion you were talking to her about employment plans that the Government has presented, about everything you consider..., you have put so much money into entrepreneurs, you have put so much money into employment plans, but if the Basque Government had to put on one line a script, another, one after another to explain, in these four years, what has been done to improve the situation of young people, I think you would have more than one problem. Because, if you don't, you don't know how to explain or the young people don't know anything. Because to this presentation people from the university have come, of course, collectives of young entrepreneurs, some who have gone better than others, logically, people from the euskera field have come to the university, feminist organizations have come..., less the political organizations, who already know what they think because each one speaks more with ours and already know what they think–, the EGK came, who was invited once and we were willing to come again. And in the end no one, no one who has come there is able to recognize anything that has been done to make this better. And, then, it's very worrying when the lehendakari of one country goes and first says "Get out," which is very good, although Mr. Toña had told them otherwise, and then some say "Get out" and the other says "No, stay and hold on"; and then they say "No, we're not here to create work, because that's what companies are for." Man, of course, the work of companies and government, logically, have to go hand in hand, is bidirectional work, and one without another makes no sense in giving opportunities to new ones, and more in the situation we are in. But the truth is that young people used to go to other countries fleeing from mileurism and now some leave because there is not even that of mileurism, neither here nor anywhere. Therefore, before 5,000 young people who have gone into the economic crisis, before half of the young population we have, before an EGK who is an entity of the Government, who lives in the Government and is able to report that, in fact, everything is in pain and each of the organizations, each of the universities says that there is something missing here, in our opinion, the law is probably not the panacea. But what I believe is that the Basque Country cannot spend more years without that legislative tool that demands obligations from them too, but demands the government, to which it corresponds – at this time, the PNV government – to comply with this collective. Therefore, the amendment signed with the EH Bildu Group, on the one hand, echoes Mr Lehendakari's words because we are absolutely against it, above all, because we find it unfortunate, and on the second point he talks about the need for that legislative tool. Indeed, and with the political reality that we have today in this House, I do believe, Mrs Zulaika, that we will lose, that we will fall for the transaction, because the subject of the law is something that you will at some point explain to us why you are fleeing from everything, and, with this haste that you entered at the end of the legislature, because you could have already rushed into making this law, that you, like us, know that you are too much obliged and that is probably why you do not like it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u91	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u92	Thank you, Chief. President, chief physician, good afternoon to all. Mrs. Zulaika, there's only one thing I can agree with you: that the creating of employment opportunities for young men ought to be a preference to the administration, to political parties, and to society. And it's always been a priority for you and the Jestric Party, not now because you say so. Commpartimos cond que la creacion de portentunidades de emperunodes para la lastes debe serdad para todas las aliicenes públicas. "Pero a partir de Ahi, poco más." We think today's initiative is neither head nor foot. You weren't at the meeting you mention, you didn't know the words, you didn't know the context. Worse still, you clearly said today that you don't care what the context was. But the other day, when you read the interpretation of some newspaper and made an interpenetration about something the president thought was being told, the President Urkullu answered you frankly and distinctly, telling you what the whims of fun were. He explained to you what one of the main goals of fun is: to revive and promote the economy, and to enable the production of social opportunities. From this he spoke of the measures which were to be set in motion. But you didn't give up, and you introduced this motion to say the same things that you said before you heard the explanation. Then today, for the same time. Nay, besides repeating what has been said before, there is no particular proposal made in the initiative of the EH Collector. The priority is to enable the creation of quality jobs, and for that it is essential to maintain and adopt measures to increase economic growth. My engagement to young winnings is strong and constant. In 2014, I got a job excited and a plan for reforming the economy. Among the first acts of fun, the programmes to promote new employment options started: local economy development, assistance, job, job, job training, work programs. Eginkizun horiek martxan jartzeko, 775 million euroko inbertsioa aurreikusi zuen orduan. And three years later, however much it weighs, this plan has begun to bear fruit. Month after month we are growing, job opportunities are being created. In the budgets of 2016, 24.5 million euros have been directed to improvement of the young to different actions: the program Hezibi, the mobiles, the internationalizations, the application to access the commercials, the relebo contracts, the agreements signed with Escal University and Educational Schools to include young men in the work world. All these teams want to give 20,000 kids a job chance this year. I'm sure you're in a very good mood for young people and young people to give them a chance to work. And the data for the month of April has been good, but under no circumstances do we settle. At least 9,143 quality jobs must be created for so many other young people. For the Basque Nationalist Party, we are going to promote the creation of that job, and it is a priority. But we have a long way to go. There are some enterprises already in progress, but other enterprises are also being introduced into action by different institutions. The re-establishment of economics and the possibility of making jobs is a priority, but there's one thing we can't forget: euscal economy is internationalized, every day more and more, which brings new chances to society in general. There's new picks in the new markets, and they need a push too. There they are in the Globe competition and the Globe Training program. I think it's good to make euscal companies in the country. It's good not only to be in Basque enterprises, but to be young eupscals working outside. The President has insisted upon the euphorans to consider the young Basques as the important element of our future as a people. He showed up here the other day. You and we don't understand the same thing when we're talking about the economy and the training internationalization. The object of every Basque administration is to offer opportunities for young Basques. You just said, "Muponk wants to put his responsibility to other institutions." That's not true. I'm sure you're responsible for it, but the rest of the organizations are responsible for it. This is not a challenge from an organization, this is our challenge as a country. At least I think that we may agree in this, and that therefore every administration is to act in the same or the like manner. In the Euskal company, wherever they are, there must be opportunities for young Basques, either here or abroad. And I think things can't be mixed up: and another is quite different from young men, if you like, to go abroad and live in a country, to experience experience, to understand things, or to return to the house if you like. To associate with euppresses or other corporations abroad, to acquire professional powers to plunge into a nation, is, in itself, good for the eupscal society. This second chance is good for our country, it's good for all the Basque companies that want to be in it or in the nation. I repeat: to be obliged is a drama, but to go if you like is a good chance. PPk bere zuzenketan politica ekonomiko eta industrial erakargarria eskatzen du puntako empresak erakartzeko, enplegua sortzeko. Mr Damborenea is committed to creating stable and quality jobs. We totally agree on that. But just answer one question: do you mean by attractive industrial economic policy that the autonomous communities governed by the People's Party are carrying out? Because, if so, we can't disagree anymore. A competitive economy is indispensable, but a competitive society cannot be maintained in an unjust society. Our purpose is clear: To develop economic policy for building a competitive and just-to-one society. We believe in economic and industrial policies, the competitive economy of the future and the economic economy of society is indispensable to create opportunities in society and to continue social justice. El Partado Nacinanist Vasco lo tiene croro: nustra pollítica economica se orienta substir una sociedda competitiva y justa. Mrs. Zulaika, I'm surprised that you and PSE have made an agreement about a young law. Mrs Red, Mrs Zulaika has just made it clear to you, she has just confessed that the only option she had was to go through the ring of her law so as not to lose this afternoon. Baina PSEren zuzenketa eta erdibidekoa ikusteak atzera begiratzeko stop ere eman digu. I have recalled again what the PSE brought to this House and what it means by the Youth Act: a bill that did not guarantee its objective, a bill that did not collect measures to guarantee the autonomy of young people and much less emancipation. A project that did not guarantee financial sufficiency, a project full of contradictions, a project that violated the competences of the Basque institutions, full of objections and objections in their administrative file, to which several amendments were submitted to the whole (that of the PNV, of course, but that of Aralar also). A bill that received the rejection of the entire House, also from the group that supported it at that time, which was the People's Party. Therefore, Mrs Red, make no mistake, that was not a political problem; that, what was a conceptual disaster and a legal disaster. The whole amendment tabled by our group is the only one that addresses the youth problem as a whole, the only one that has its eyes on the work to be developed from the various administrations in order to facilitate the emancipation of young people. At the first point of the amendment, we urge the Basque Government to continue working together with the other institutions – our group does believe in interinstitutional collaboration, unlike what we have heard in other groups – to promote economic recovery and to continue working with Basque companies and educational institutions to facilitate the integration of young people into employment. In addition, in the second point, we call on the various public administrations to promote comprehensive youth policies. We want youth policies that are based on a clear conviction that young people are the real protagonists of their own life and future, as well as of the Euskadi and their social and economic development. We also call on the institutions to develop policies and strategies that promote the emancipation of young people, particularly in two areas: employment and housing, the main barriers we understand young people encounter when they are able to emancipate themselves and develop an independent life project. That's why we're not going to protect middle-class correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u93	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing to a group that hasn't issued any corrections, Mistto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u94	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, everyone. We can indeed recall some of the data that appear in the justification of the initiative or in the text of the inquiry presented at the time by EH Bildu to actually realize the very serious problems that young people have in Euskadi. It is enough to remember that the employment rate exceeds by more than 30%; that 60% of young people have no income; that in Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa 6 out of 10 people living in poverty are under 35 years of age; that 22% of young people with work do not arrive at the end of the month; that 95% of contracts for young people are temporary and 42% are under one year; or that the wage gap is about €8,000 per year between young people and the rest of working people. I believe that with this data we can conclude that the current Basque Government has failed in the fight against youth unemployment. It has not achieved the objectives set out, there is much work to be done and it is therefore worth recognizing. And in that sense it is also desirable that the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist group does not throw the bells at the flight, do not make that free propaganda from the Government or perhaps not attack other opposition groups, which, supposedly, would not be the reason for the compromise amendment, would it not? But in any case, everyone makes the speech they consider. I will try to position myself in relation to what has finally been agreed, what was originally proposed and what has finally been proposed to us through a transactional. What was proposed to us at the beginning? That we repudiate the statements made by the lehendakari. And I cannot reprimand the statements made by the lehendakari because I basically agree with what he said. And, on the other hand, what EH Bildu is asking us, what he was asking us initially is to adopt a youth policy that can be considered as an integral policy, and we are pointing out the desirability of renewing the youth policy, but, finally, without any concrete measures. This has been supplemented by the compromise he has signed with the Socialist Group to tell us, on the one hand, that we must reject the statements made by the Lehendakari, although we do not finally know whether the proposing groups agree with what he said or whether, really, what they do not share is the policy actually carried out, but, in any case, they propose that we repeat the words of the Lehendakari and, on the other hand, that we adopt a youth law. I think, let's say, a transactional with very little content so that it can be supported, at least by UPyD. What did the lehendakari say? Well, he raised the need to think of going abroad as an opportunity, although the challenge must be to return to Euskadi. And, as an old lehendakari would say, what's wrong with it? Who can't agree with these statements? I do not see any problem with a political leader actually making these statements. Because on many occasions going abroad is a very good experience, vital and not just work, and I think the lehendakari meant that. Therefore, I understand that the lehendakari did not intend to expel the Basque youth or encourage them to go abroad and not return, but rather to show that going abroad can be a good opportunity to learn, acquire knowledge, gain experience and then return, if there are indeed decent job guarantees here and the young people who went that way; and, moreover, because many do not even want to come back. I believe that, therefore, the lehendakari was referring to this, with which, I believe, it makes no sense for us to support the reprobation of statements which, in substance, you have all understood and I believe we share. We all have friends, family or acquaintances who have chosen to go out. The drama is not going abroad, but there is no job here. And that is another debate, one can talk about employment policies, one can talk about what measures we articulate to fight unemployment, one can talk about that, and there would be many measures to put on the table, but I say that we are not going to reprimand the words of the lehendakari because, moreover, in 2012, the previous lehendakari López said something similar. By reviewing similar news I read here, in a media outlet, how the lehendakari on 28 March 2012 transferred to the members of the Advisory Council for Socio-economic Affairs the development of a possible initiative to promote opportunities for the qualification of young professionals abroad, and I understand that the lehendakari López did not want the young people to leave Euskadi, with which, in the end, I say that I do not share what is proposed. On the other hand, the counselor, during the debate on the inquiry, pointed out that the drama is that someone is forced to leave for not having opportunities here. What is exciting is that they have the choice, the opportunity to have an international experience, an experience in Basque companies abroad or in companies that bring value to them, an experience that will help them to expand their professional skills, which will allow them to develop internationally, and we also share these statements of the Councillor. I therefore believe that the compromise, in addition to the political theses advising opposition groups to join together to harm the government or to reprimand certain statements, does not contribute anything. We do not share, I do not think that the Lehendakari should be blamed for his statements, because we share these statements, nor do we think that youth unemployment can be resolved by a youth law. These are very strict measures that should be promoted, economic reactivation measures, plans to encourage the creation of young jobs, probably also a youth law, but of course as an accessory measure. To invest more in productive investments, to support industry or also measures that can be decided in the youth presentation that has been going on in this Parliament for several years. That, that is what we can discuss, that is what we can or should agree on, but we do not share the Lehendakari's statements at all. We share, in fact, the statements of the lehendakari. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u95	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing on the answer shift, Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u96	Thanks again, ma'am. As far as Mr Damborenea is concerned, well, we said and in fact included in the compromise amendment that... that is, I disagree with you that not only do young people have to come back with talent, but we want all people who have left and obviously want to come back; some, as you have already said, certainly do not want to come back. And for EH Bildu it's important because we know..., we've looked at all the employment programs, we know all the programs, we know they've become different..., I have it here and almost, almost as a night book. We constantly review the employment programmes, and we do not say that nothing has been done, we say that in the face of the data and the situation..., that we do not say it ourselves, that the diagnosis is there, that it is insufficient. Well, he said he disagreed with Mr. Damborenea that we want everyone to come back; the mechanics who have gone, too, because not all people, as you said, out are quoted much better. There are some people who have gone, who are out on top, are not listed and can't come back on top. We want resources to be put in place for these people as well. A law, a legal framework, ensures that the rights of young people are respected or that all these rights are guaranteed, that they are included within that legal framework. As far as Mrs Berriozabal is concerned, we are not against internationalisation, as long as, of course, the decision-making centres and so on are maintained here in the internationalisation of companies. I want to make that clear, because it is true that in Mr Lehendakari's answer to the question we made to him he also said that. We are not against, we are not against Global Training, for example. What we are against is that in the face of the situation of gravity that we have, that it will share with me and with the rest that the situation is serious – that, at least, they share it, right?, so far, to that point of agreement, we arrive – in the face of the situation in which we are, therefore, that is, that it is said or seen as an opportunity. Well, for some of us it's probably an opportunity, but it seems serious to us, it's that we believe that the measures have to be much more courageous, that we have to do much more; that what has been done so far, we already know what has been done, but that it is insufficient. It's just that we don't say it, it's that the data is there, it's insufficient what has been done, it's necessary to do more. And that seems to us to be serious, to let go of those kind of pearls. That, obviously, for some who leave is an opportunity and come back with very good experiences, I will not deny it, so, of course, yes, but much more needs to be done. And that, for those who want, and those who want to access the scholarships, then, very well. But the youth policies of a government in the face of the situation that we are living and that we are going to live – because this, the drama does not end here –... It's not that there are 10,000 young people who have left, it's that this is going to get worse, it's that there are people..., and I've given the data before, 60% of young people have no income, and thanks to the fact that there are families that are supporting these people, but they have no income. And, for example, there are many more things beyond the employment plans that can be done, that could be done; for example, that these people are entitled to GIR, that they are not having. And when the family fails, or if the family fails, what about those people? The other day, to give an example, in a talk, some technical days organized by the Eragintza Foundation on mental illness and job inclusion, the director of Labor Activation of Lanbide, Mrs. Gotzone Sagardui, among the programs she explained to people with functional diversity, said that GIR was an essential element also for these people, because people who do not have resources need to have resources and some autonomy in the active search for employment. Why not for young people? I don't know, I think there are many things that can still be addressed. They say we stopped trying to ask for something inconcrete... Well, we've been... Two months ago my partner Belen Arrondo, I think he also presented an initiative on an increase of a fund of 500 million euros, especially for young people and women, to promote employment among young people... And here, too, we were pushed back. Sometimes it's because we're out of line in the budget, sometimes it's because we're short; we don't know how to get it right, but we understand that something needs to be done, that something needs to be done urgently. And, well, given what there is, then, the same law is the way to guarantee these rights. EH Bildu has never been against making a youth law; moreover, in his election program he carried the youth law. Indeed, as you have said, because we..., and I too, from the outside – although I was not here – from the outside saw myself and reviewed very well the law of youth, and not only Aralar, Eusko Alkartasuna also believe that he tabled the corresponding amendments and voted against the law of youth. I'm also confusing myself, but I think he voted against that youth law. We are against the law that brought the PSE then, not against the making of a youth law, much less. And that's why we also made a proposal here to make a presentation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u97	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u98	... because we understood that the outcome of that presentation would have to be to make a youth law and to lay the groundwork for the Government to take that youth law as a reference together with the rest of the socio-economic actors. Well, I'm trying to use it to ask again for the vote on this amendment, because, well, we think it's urgent to do something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Euscal Group Popula representative. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u100	Thank you very much, Madam President. Of course it's urgent to do something! What is happening is that Mrs Berriozabal is very comfortable in the debate on this of the nothing we are having, this of politics, of youth and so on. You said that you were against our amendment, which says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to re-establish – because it was done before – an attractive industrial economic policy to attract technologically leading companies, which create stable and quality jobs by encouraging the recruitment of young Basques." And his big argument is to say, "If these are the same policies that the People's Party does in other autonomous communities, no, thank you." Look, I know more young women 25 years old today working in Madrid than here. Me, me. Today, yes, today, today. Well, maybe we have to copy the industrial policies that are made in Madrid. I do not know if you attended those talks that Mr Pedro Luis Uriarte gave about how the Community of Madrid has been growing, it has been growing, it has been growing, it has been growing, as we go down, we go down and we are less and less. I don't know if you've heard anything. Maybe we had to copy something, I don't know. Look, if I know we're in the politics of doing what's done and still doing nothing. And our second point – which you are also going to vote against – says: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to comply with its youth employment budgets and plans, especially the funds earmarked for entrepreneurship". Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, We have come to ask the PNV to comply with its plans and budgets in this area. How are you going to vote for us, please? That is our amendment, that is our amendment. That is why I told you that we were not going to be politically correct in this debate. This is not a youth debate. A person of 24 years of age, 25 years of age, is not a young person of 16, 17, 18. No, he is an elderly person, an adult, to whom, of course, this Autonomous Community had to put the means to be able to take up employment here. And we already know that that's not done with a law. Laws don't create jobs. They can get a lot of jobs. Create, little; numb, much. And here we are attending the debate on doing what is done, and this government has been an expert throughout this legislature in doing what is done. I don't know how many plans for industrialization, for reindustrialization, for promoting the economy... I don't know how many between PNV and the Socialist Party. They were all going to be financed with the highest tax revenues we were going to have with the tax reform, because, well, tax fraud was going to end, we were going to raise billions of euros in this legislature... Zero. Zero. But, of course, Bildu also lends himself to the game of making it done. In other words, we are going to do a lot for the use of the "young people" – in quotes – and we reject the words of the lehendakari, that the words are not reprehensible, as Mr Maneiro has said. They are wrong in the following assumption: if it is true that you want them to come back, for that you have to give them the means to return, it is not enough to want. Look, we all want you to come back, but we'll have to put the means in, and that's what we don't see in this government. And in the end we are in the debate to do what is done. And it is clear that a law is not going to be the panacea of all the evils of young people. Hey, not everyone, not half or none. And less so when we're talking about employment. And let's see if we stop treating young people like I don't know what small things, because a person already 22, 23, 24, 25 years old would have to be treated with another consideration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u101	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u102	Thank you, President. I'm gonna start with Mr. Maneiro, because it's gonna be 10 seconds. I am clear what my group has signed: against Mr Urkullu's statements and fully in agreement that Euskadi needs a law. I know perfectly well what I signed with Mrs Zulaika and I have no doubt. And now I will tell you, Mrs Berriozabal: in fact, the past legislature the government of Patxi López brought a law, but it was not the first government that brought a law. The problem was that it brought a law that was not born of the PNV, unlike the law that you brought to the end of the previous legislature, that was born with the government of Ibarretxe about to end and that you know perfectly well how that law was made and what the development of that law was. And since you only support laws that are born of you, obviously not Patxi López's, Mr. Ibarretxe's, yes. I have read the debates that Mrs Corrales and yourself have had in the past parliamentary term. It just has nothing to do with one project with another. And you say: "It is that the law of the last legislature did not solve the problem of emancipation." What I didn't do was the project you proposed two legislatures ago. They were just talking about leisure and free time. This is the only thing the PNV proposed for young Basques. And recognized not only by the PES, but by groups working with young people, they recognized that Patxi López's law proposed something else and that it was the first time that there was talk of formative development, work development, experience and possibilities for real emancipation. But, as we are not going to become ourselves at this age we have "grandmothers onions", so, almost better from now on. That's why we're here, not to be flogging ourselves with what it could have been and it wasn't or what we would have liked to be and it wasn't. Well, then, with the Socialist Group in this legislature outside of the government, which is what you wanted and why you got hives, you come to the government and we see the legislative timetable. For us, the law of youth, a priority; for you, totally salvable, and we bring to Parliament a debate to bring the law of youth, which is a reality. Understanding, wanting to believe that the reason for the NVP's not was the content of the law I want to believe it. We asked them to do it. We didn't tell them what had to contain the project, if I had to talk about one thing or the other... No, no, no. We said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to draw up a youth law". Point. And they also said no. And you tell the story a little as you want. Because, indeed, the law of Patxi López had some resources, interposed, of course, by the PNV, as always. And, incidentally, the Arbitral Commission told them that they were not right and saved the resources put to the Arbitral Commission for invasion of jurisdiction to other autonomous communities. And that, you know as well as I do. And you know as well as I do that this bill worked with the deputies, with the municipalities and with the administrations that were involved and with the EGK. But you, as not protagonists of the situation, said no. The excuse was that the Basque Youth Institute was created when you really knew it was a reformulation of what there is; because, man, if anyone is a friend of creating chiringuitos, precisely the PNV here, finally, can tell us very well how the subject is done. And then I have to say that, in fact, the drama of young people is not going to form... Of course not! It's an opportunity, those of us who have had the chance to get out we've come out; the drama is to feel compelled to leave because where you want to stay you don't have the opportunity. So let's not demagogue. We're not saying it's wrong for someone to go to Madrid, to the United States or to New Zealand, to go anywhere. And if you want to stay, stay, but let's be able from the administrations to offer to that collective, Mr.Damborenea, that you know they are older, of course they are older, but you know that the need of one of 18, of 25, is not the need of you. We are all citizens of the Basque Autonomous Community, but the needs of life projects and of what each one poses are not equal. And in the current economic situation, much less. We are privileged people who have a job, and they are people who live in a situation of forced departure abroad who are unable to collect 1,000 euros. That's what we're talking about. So let us not pretend that those of us who have signed this amendment are critical of the internationalisation of formations, which we feel is wrong for them to come out. That is not, which we think is very good, but it is the Government's duty to come up with solutions and proposals so that anyone who wants to stay has a chance. And that, Mr Lehendakari, is not to say to companies "Open the doors of companies in the Basque Country to young people". No way! And, then, as we are all surrounded by young people and as we are not going to cheat on the lonely because we all know the reality, the only thing we say is that we believe that the law is the fundamental tool, that, as you are not going to pass a law that is born of the PSE or born of the opposition, that you do it, and from the text that you present to us let us work all the political forces in common, through parliamentary amendments, in order to be able to reach an agreement, so that this demand that has been coming for so long can be solved. Because I don't know whether to look at the autonomous communities that govern the PP, the PSOE, or who rules. What is clear is that those of us who presume to be pioneers in everything are an autonomous community that has no youth law. And then, youth will have to be given an answer. And of all the explanation, Mrs Berriozabal, who has given me, I remain – and I finish, Madam President – with one thing: common places. Just like the lehendakari: common places, newspaper headlines, plans and plans, strategies of entrepreneurs. And for that collective, what? Nothing. Transversality. Nothing. Specific policies. Nothing. This government does not create jobs, it creates OPEs, few, that the company does. That's what we're offering Basque youth. I absolutely agree that whoever wants to go out, goes out. But I also agree that whoever wants to stay, that the Government be able to raise the possibilities of doing so. And today you're not doing it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u103	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u104	Thank you, Chief. Well, Mrs. Zulaika. From today's initiative I carry something positive: On the one hand, you've confessed internationalization isn't bad. There's something. You've confessed that there's someone out there who wants to go abroad. That, too, is something. Again, to those who are obliged to go, it is a drama for those who see themselves obliged to go; Today, at least, you've confessed...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u105	Translation system is not working.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u106	Good. You've admitted, at least, that fun has some kind of initiative going on. You say it's a poor answer. You said the other day that he didn't do anything, that he was a poor answer today. But what I missed, I really believe in your initiative, and even in your midway correction, I miss some particular initiative, some definite proposition. There's nothing. We say again that M.M. has a number of initiatives in progress. Some other things can be put in, no problem, they'll be different, but they'll always come from an indirect point of view. Mrs Rojo, let me say that employment is created by companies, that the government does not create employment, beyond the public offers of employment, for, man, that, I think we all know, but once again you come here to say that the Basque Government does not create employment. The Basque Government creates employment through public offers of employment, much or little, which the People's Party allows it. But beyond that, the government does not create employment. Employment is created by people. Public institutions have the responsibility to take measures to reactivate the economy and enable the generation of employment opportunities. And, Mr Maneiro, I do not think it was I who launched the bells on the flight, because I remind you that I have said that the data from the last few months, well, have improved, but that at least we must encourage the creation of more than 9,100 jobs for so many other young people who have stopped. Mrs Red, the Socialist Party has a terrible obsession with the youth law. They had a very bad digestion of this Parliament's decision to return the bill to the government, but we understand that the laws are instruments, they are not ends in themselves, and for you it has become an end, a final goal. You've talked about many issues since then. I didn't want to be "Grandma onion," but I think it finally fell into that. I will only bring you an anecdote of those debates, of those moments: you wanted to make an institute of the youth of Euskadi, and for that you were not only willing, but you picked up a bill in which you were going to jump to the toaster all the rules that you yourself had given yourself regarding the creation of new agencies and entities. You created the norm, and you yourselves jumped it into a bill. I believe that the most positive thing you, the Socialist Party, have done in recent years in this area, in relation to the creation of employment opportunities for young people, has been to acquire, together with the Basque Nationalist Party, a commitment to economic reactivation and the generation of employment, will and commitment that has a clear reflection in the Employment and Economic Reactivation Plan and in each of the budget exercises. Of course, what they presented as the panacea of emancipation was of no use. And, Mrs. Zulaika, I repeat, that which PSE understands as a young law, instead of an instrument, is useless, and you make no definite proposal. We really believe in indirectity, and that's how we keep working. And, Mr Damborenea, well, I have already told you that, of course, we do not share what the communities governed by the People's Party do, but the economic policy of the People's Party is, for example, the insurmountable energy policy that hinders the competitiveness of our businesses. A country that believes in industry cannot accept the current tariff policy, and urgent reform is needed; and, as I have seen you so concerned, so you could put yourselves to it. The economic policy of the People's Party is, for example, a Spanish Government that does not have a minister of industry in office, that does not defend its position in Europe, that does not work for the productive economy and sacrifices its industry; that is the economic policy of the People's Party, that is the economic policy you presume. And, of course, you say we're here in a debate about "it looks like it's done," and yours is about "let's make it seem like it's not done." We are voting against its amendment, of course, firstly because we do not share its model of industrial economic policy, and secondly because Parliament, the parliamentary groups approve the budgets, the government manages them and already fulfils them; it is therefore impossible for us to vote in favour of their amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u107	Thank you, Mrs. News. In conclusion, Miss Misto-UPyD... Mr. Maniro must not speak a word. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the Middle Amendment signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters 35; counters, 37; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u108	So it's not accepted. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 9; contraries, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u109	So he didn't accept it. And finally, we'll vote for the full rights of the U.S. patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 27; contrarys, 45; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u110	So he didn't accept it. The seventh point on the theme list: "A proposition as well as the Papal Committee of the U.S.A. Acting on the International Year of 2016 Lekale. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Euscal Group Popula representative. Madame Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u111	Thank you, Madam President. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. I present this non-law proposal on behalf of the People's Group, referring to the International Year of Vegetables 2016. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, this is the International Year of Vegetables because it was declared by the UN in 2013, with a clear objective: to raise the world's awareness of the nutritional benefits of vegetable consumption and to promote its production as sustainable food. Vegetables are a source of amino acids of plant origin and proteins...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u112	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u113	... they are part of a healthy diet to reduce obesity and help control diseases such as diabetes or coronary diseases. It's a sustainable crop. Legumes are the great allies against climate change. Sustainable in production: they use little water for their production, they fix nitrogen, so they help reduce the use of nitrogen fertilizers, which causes a decrease in emissions of gases to the atmosphere. They are sustainable in conservation: they are stored for long periods without the need for refrigeration or other treatments. They do not need any transformation: processing work is minimal, as it is reduced to packaging. They have a small footprint of food surpluses, when in other products we talk about a waste and waste problem, as we haven't dealt with in this House in a long time. And despite all the kindnesses they bring, their consumption is shrinking and hence the volume of production. Therefore, among the challenges of this International Year of Vegetables 2016 is increasing the consumption of vegetables. Today's vegetable consumption data are 3 kilos per person per year; in 2000 they were 4 kilos per person per year. It is the new generations that have not incorporated vegetables into their diet. This food is discriminated against within the Mediterranean diet, just like cereals and bread. According to nutritionists, it is ideal to take two rations a week, since it is not fulfilled in any autonomous community and not in the Basque Country. Another challenge for this International Year of Vegetables 2016 is to improve production volume, quantity and also quality. In terms of quantity, to give a data of production evolution, in Álava, for example, about a hundred years ago Álava had a population of 32,000 inhabitants; the production of beans at that time was around 500,000 kilos. Today, speaking of the year 2015, the population of Álava is around 325,000 inhabitants; the production of beans in 2015 was 100,000 kilos. Make numbers and you will see how the volume of consumption and production has been reduced. We are deficient in production and consume fewer vegetables. As for quality, we are at a high level and we have expert producers, we have quality badges: Kalitatea since the year 99 for the beehive of Toulouse, the beehive of Gernika, the beehive paints Alavesa. In addition, we have the brand of quality Euskal Baserri, which, as you know, is characterized by being products of quality of origin, produced on small family farms, close to the rural cores. And within this brand we can find the lentil, the red beehive, the pea, the chickpea, the rice beehive. It is much that can be done, what we can do in our field, in the Basque Country. Many actions are being promoted since the Association of Legumbrists. From the People's Group we have been in contact with producers, cooperatives, and they have several initiatives in mind: recognizing the work of producers, showing this work and bringing it closer to citizens, especially to new generations, informing and disseminating about our productions, production methods, varieties, the quality of our products. In addition, it is an alternative product or one that can rotate with other types of crops, thus generating an interesting dynamic in the agricultural sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this initiative has had an amendment by the Basque Socialist Group, with which we have reached a compromise amendment that you all have. I hope that the groups that have not amended will also participate in this initiative and vote in favour of it. And the most interesting thing is that this year especially declared so let us do intensive work from the administrations with the producers, with the cooperatives, to disseminate their consumption, the benefits it brings, and, moreover, what it brings to the environment and to agricultural economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u114	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Fresno, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u115	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. The Socialist Group joins the UN statement declaring the International Year of Vegetables under the slogan "Nutritive Seeds for a Sustainable Future". We must raise awareness of its many benefits and promote a product and trade by promoting re-use in the food chain. The role of legumes has a great contribution for its contribution to food and nutrition security, to care for health, being an icon of the fight against malnutrition. If we talk about environmental care, vegetables have a big role that sometimes out of ignorance we don't value enough. They help maintain the environment with its characteristics, which include a low carbon footprint. They help improve soil fertility, act as nitrogen fixers in soil protection, increase agricultural land productivity and intercrop cultivation, promote sustainable agriculture, increase biodiversity. Vegetables are a good ally in the face of climate change. Wide genetic diversity makes it possible to select varieties adapted to the changes we are seeing, have a lower carbon footprint and indirectly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. We must make an important commitment to local products, promote sustainable agriculture, provide a long-term food supply...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u116	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u117	The markets and fairs must be of great support and promotion, so that everything can be used to help and recognize local products, such as the Alavesa pint beehive, the Tolosa beehive, the Gernika beehive, under the Kalitatea quality label, and without forgetting the Euskal Baserri quality badge. Farmers' interest in growing vegetables has gone and must go up. The incorporation of this activity into the farms implies investing in a new machinery, and in this way we must start with the expansion of commercial activity, which we believe is very positive. The local agri-food industry must be strengthened and developed in all its diversity, promoting growth, job creation and the basis for better access to consumption by producers in its environment. The production and distribution of vegetables provide a number of economic advantages, as they represent an important and necessary part of the primary sector, recommending their incorporation into a healthy and healthy diet, especially in schools and their dining rooms. It would be good to continue working together with the hospitality industry to promote and make known our products, to give value to our vegetables through the rich and varied recipe and gastronomy with which we count, which enjoys a high prestige and recognition. It would also be of great help if the Government worked together with the producer sector to develop sustainable strategies, based on the implementation of an agri-food model that would ensure fair prices for both producers and consumers, ensuring the traceability of vegetables produced in our Community, with support for the promotion of connections throughout the food chain, increased production and helping to meet the challenges in trade. We will vote in favour of the amendment that we have had with the People's Party, an amendment that reflects the contributions that the Socialist Group has made in support of and recognition of the International Year of Vegetables 2016. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Fresno. Passing over to the district that has no corrections, the representative of the EH Collectors. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u119	Hello. I'll do it from here. I think there is a certain tendency in this legislature to classify the subjects of agriculture, fishing, and nutritious food as matters of little importance; and then, even outside, we see something similar in communications, that is to say, few or almost none of them follow. It seems to us that with this action of ours, as today, it serves for jesting and acting in the legislature, and that it becomes an excuse to do so, but that they contribute little to give importance to agriculture matters. I must say, if the medium is given to vote on points, at least we will assent to point 1 and we will appeal to the rest. Well, Mrs. Lopez de Ocarariz, that's how it is today. In any case, tomorrow I'll continue with attention the interaction you've presented around the meat.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u120	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u121	Mme. President, Congressmen, good evening to all of you. Agriculture is always the last item on the agenda, it catches the staff already a little tired... But today, it's neither your birthday nor I want these gentlemen to go out before, with which, today, I'm going to expose myself with the theme, because the theme is worth it. It's not his best phrase, but Solomon said that it's worth a vegetable meal with love that was tender with hatred. And today there is love, a lot of love, Mrs López de Ocariz. As there must have been love in the UN General Assembly of 20 December 2013; those diplomats decided to declare the International Year of Legumes, and they did so with the following argument – I read it because I have not learned it from memory –: "Noting that legumes are annual legume crops that produce between 1 and 12 grains or seeds of varying size, shape and colour within a pod, that are used for food and fodder and that the term 'legume' is limited to crops harvested exclusively for dry grain, so green crops for food are excluded, those that are classified as vegetables". Well, they agreed on something that botanists won't agree with, because calling green pea vegetables seems a little strong to me, but, well, they ruled it out. And it has something to do with what comes next, because then they argue, "Legums are an essential vegetable protein in humanity's food basket." Right. Next: "... and, in addition, all world health organizations, national and regional, recommend it because it avoids obesity, prevents cancer...", etc., etc. Perfect. And then they add something else, which is the fundamental one this year. They say: "Celebrating a year of legumes will be an opportunity to encourage the formation of links in the food chain that will allow better use of legume-derived proteins, promote their global production and address the trade problems of legumes." From there they solve it with a budget that they say there is no, but that they accept voluntary contributions, even from the private sector. A lot of year, a lot of legume and little pasta, but to throw forward. That said and done, we are already in the International Year of Vegetables. And how do we celebrate it? It could be with a game – I think first of all – but in a place as circumspect and serious as this, it seems not. We could make a chickpea sorority meal... Neither. You come with a GNP to celebrate it, and the GNP, what you say to the government is..., do a series of duties, but also come tell us already, in a month, here, running. Of course, think that the UN statement is global, the management of FAO is global, it is global, we are very important, even, Bilbao has a world map, but let's see the real context of legumes in which we move. You, more or less, have said it. I saw the statistics of 2014; production of legumes: 154,000 kilos of bees label, 42,000 of bees Euskal Baserri, 47,000 of pedrosillane chickpea, 14,500 of beans, 12,000 of lentils and 4,000 of peas; in total, 235 tons. Gutxi gorabehera, two three-axle trucks, all the Euskadi vegetable production in 20 seconds we see them pass, paf!, and it's over. First mission: we can produce more. Then, too, one will see the statistics – I'm not going to 1920 or 1930 –: from 2010 to 2014 we have doubled production, that is, without international year, without GNP, without advisor to come we have twice as much production and surface. The sector, the parliaments, the government, the reality... they've got to work and they're doing it, and that's fine. Now, how much do we have to start producing? If we go to the area of food sovereignty, as we produce I think that 118 grams per citizen per year and we consume a little more than 3 kilos citizen per year, we would have to reach 6,600 tons per year, which is 6,400 hectares, which are already there. Thinking that we have the agricultural surface of Euskadi more or less occupied, we are promoting, but we have to move other products, such as beet, which is already happening a little bit in Álava. How do we fix it? The international year of beet, and the next year the year of rabanito and the next year the year of leek, and so we will agree in subsequent international years. Good. As we go into that growth we will continue to increase consumption, if we can, with the declaration of the international year. And that increase in consumption, although we also have all quality, all quality vegetables (or in Euskal Baserri or in Eusko Label) minus beans, which, as they are animal feed, still calves have not ordered label, but everything will happen. Then, from there we will increase consumption and buy from other sites. And that's where I wanted to get there. What really is the goal of the International Year of Vegetables declared by the UN? It is a major global development cooperation programme in which with the producing countries, which are in Africa, Asia and Latin America, consumption is expected to increase somewhat in the rich countries and we will make a transfer, they from agricultural products and us from money to them. Sounds like a great show to me. Let us support it from that perspective: it is not a GNP, nor is it a coming from the Basque Government's Economic Development Adviser here, it is a programme of development cooperation. That would have earned an institutional statement. If you don't think so, we'll attach some legume recipes, which there are a lot of them, but I think that's what it would be worth. In the meantime, you bring a GNP in which, by the way, I am prepared – if I am allowed to vote for points – to vote for the first, although I do not entirely agree, because your initial proposal was the right one, that this Parliament should join the International Year. Not that we ask the government to adhere, if you have to ask it to adhere. And what is Parliament doing with the International Year? We should have joined, and I bet on that. However, I will vote for the first point, if you leave me, and I will say that the Basque Nationalist group adheres enthusiastically – and I have also worn a tie to be elegant today – adheres enthusiastically to the International Year of Vegetables. From there, the UN declaration itself, the institutional declarations itself, the reports that are coming out, all that is already moving to the consumption of vegetables, is a great worldwide publicity, is what is really meant, not that a counselor comes here to explain her plans for the year, is something else, and here, surely, in Euskadi, there will be a slight increase in the consumption of vegetables. From there we also have an inveterated custom, which is to marry the legumes with pork products. Already the health aspect that was given to him, perhaps he is losing his effects. Other than that it has other unwanted effects that participate... let's say methane goes against the greenhouse effect, but that's something else, isn't it? From there, meanwhile, in Euskadi, opportunities, growth, the sector are increasing..., the government is funding research, development, aid from the PDRS, that is, this is working without PNL, no one needs to come to explain the plans, we all know that label and Euskal Baserri are being promoted at fairs, in ads, etc., etc. The sector is going well, the sector is growing. Farmers are finding new markets and diversifying production, which was what was needed. Let the International Year of Legumes do the work it has to do with the goal it intends to do and let us no longer bind ourselves, and let us not take advantage of the journey for other things. Because, set to celebrate, why don't we celebrate March 13th, which is World Kiss Day? Or on April 20, that the UN itself at another glorious general assembly decided that every year is World Happiness Day, and no one has ever thought of telling the government with a GNP to come and explain to us what their plans are for us all to be happy, and the thing happens normally. By the way, 2013 was the International Year of Quinoa, and here we don't even know, we didn't make a PNL, nor did the counselor come, or anything, and from 2013 to 2015 the consumption of quinoa has almost doubled in the world. It's much better that things happen as they have to and we don't try to advertise and advertise by taking advantage of other trips. Look, William Bernbach has already said that just because your ad looks good, there's no guarantee that it's a good look. In any case, let the vegetables live. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u122	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Passing on the answer shift, somebody... ? Yes, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Soon. Firstly, to thank the Socialist Party for the amendment it has tabled and for the agreement we have reached, which we think is very important. We are not opposed to voting on points. And, Mr. Telleria, yourself. 2008 was the International Year of Potato, we did nothing. The potato has disappeared in Álava, practically. Therefore, you stay with your fat bitch and we will continue with our initiatives. I don't think it does any harm that we bring this GNP here. Instead, we have spoken to the producers, the cooperatives, and they gave us their approval to bring in an initiative, and I have told you what aspects they think are necessary. But I respect your judgment and your opinion very much. We are not opposed to voting on points, and I therefore believe that it is as interesting or more than many initiatives that we have dealt with in this House, and I have not seen any such harsh criteria in the intervention. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u124	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Anybody else want to take the word? Mr. Tellegio, do you want to take the word?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u125	Just from here. Eskerrik asko. Mrs López de Ocariz, let's see if the potato has disappeared because here we don't approve any GNP with the International Year of Potato! I mean, let's see if the statements we make here in the international years of the various vegetable and vegetable products in the world are going to save the situation in that sector! Please, Mrs López de Ocariz, we are talking about a still small sector that has doubled in four years without anyone approving anything. That's not what this is about. And I don't know where he found my hosqueness, I didn't mean to be hosque in this. Another thing is that he does not like what I have been able to say, but I believe that the context of an international year of something declared by the UN is a much broader and much more complex context than what this House is calling the Councilwoman to tell us what publicity she is going to make of chickpeas in the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u126	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Now that the discussion is over, we'll go to the vote. We'll vote for the popular Euscals and the Basque Socialists, the 1st point of the semi-correction that the team signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u127	So he's unanimous. After that, we'll vote for two, three, four points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; the pros, 25; the contrary, 27; the whites, 0; abstainments, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-19.u128	So they didn't accept it. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was five o'clock in the afternoon and thirteen.
