ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Gatherate the bill made by the legislatures to support the worthy pensions of retirement in Aran, Biscay, and in Gipuzia. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You're in the papers where you're parted from, so we're going to argue without having to read it. This is our turn and the counter shift. Which side of the line is to be shared besides the EH Union? Side shift? Anything else? Okay. Then, Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u1	Thank you, ma'am. The Chief Department, the President, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good morning. First, we want to welcome those who are outside this proposal, and, because they cannot follow this discussion from this room, the people who are left in the street. Today, in Aran, in Biscaia, and in the gym, we present a legal proposition to guarantee worthy pensions. In order to understand our proposal, it must be explained what is the state of pensions in the State at this time. In the opinion of EHG, the diagnosis is clear: the system will fail in a short time. And why are we sure that the system will fail with the current management model? Because the policies that PP and PSOE set up are planned from a neoliberary point of view, and this view increases differences. PP, when he took the state government in 2013, and took advantage of their absolute majority, he set up a new reform of the pensions, which, together with the changes made by PSOE in 2011, has brought in a new cut in his pensions. The initial pension has been lowered because the number of years used to calculate it has increased. The retirement age is delayed; therefore, everyone is going to receive two years less pension. And the value of pensions is reduced (only a scandalous 0.25% rise, when the average inflation of the last fifteen years has been 2.5). In short, between the two reforms, the pension has been reduced by just over 35%. It is a matter of mismanagement, it is a question of modeling, of absolutely different ways of doing politics. A mismanagement that contains a number of problems due to a simple question of approach. The first problem we face is that of contributions. The vast majority of jobs created are unworthy, temporary, partial, and very low wages. A few days ago the media published that in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa people who have entered the labour market in the past year have had to sign an average of 3.6 contracts per year. Not to mention the contribution bases: there are many people who can only pay the minimum. Therefore, the first issue to be addressed would be to create jobs, but above all quality jobs. And that is precisely what is not being done. And if the employment which is creating is generally shameful, it is still more in the case of the younger or the female. The rate of unemployment between the young is 36%, and in many cases they don't entwine or enroll it very little, thanks to the practice restrictions. Hence the only chance they have of going abroad is that they are forced to go abroad, forced, Mr. Urkullu, not voluntarily, by any chance possible. Especially worrisome is the case of employed women, who often have to reduce their working hours in order to work as carers: carers of their descendants or dependents who are in their care, women who care and also have part-time employment. Double work and lower contribution, less income and in the future less pension, and even more so for female domestic workers, who have a special contribution scheme. In addition, 85 per cent of all part-time paid work is done by women. Once again we have to remember that in this case we also lose. EHG is supposed to be a serious photograph of the situation of the pensions we now have. The pensions they receive are miserable, and as management and example do not vary, we must look for the solution ourselves. It is therefore time, therefore, to give this example to the end, and to support our own example, because the only expedient is to establish a system of pensions worthy of our people. We know, according to the state of Guernica, that the management of the economic Social Security regime belongs to the Euscal Autonomy Estribe. But at the present day the essential elements of the pension system are in the hands of the state; the rate of quotes, the foundation, or the amount of preparation. The State, therefore, manages a competition that should have been transferred to a large extent, but is also doing so in a harmful way. It should be remembered that it is not the first time in the legislature that Euskal Herria Bildu has put this issue on the table, and it is also fair to remember that just over half a year ago a popular legislative initiative came to this Parliament, backed by thousands of signatures, asking what Euskal Herria Bildu is asking for today in this plenary. An initiative to which all the groups of this House except Euskal Herria Bildu gave doorway with night and lightness, at the gates of the Christmas season. It is also fair to recall that only a couple of months ago the PNV and EH Bildu signed an agreement where we denounced the non-materialization of the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, and in that agreement that we and you signed three months ago we bet on a system of public social protection, which would guarantee decent living conditions, including pensions. And we said that in order to achieve this, it was essential that social security should be developed legislatively, implemented and managed from Basque public institutions as soon as possible. We signed that three months ago, Mrs. Gorospe. And today, on the other hand, you will be contradicted. What happened? When you signed that deal, did you make a real bet? Or was it just a picture? "EHG" is clear that what we signed was a long-term initiative, so we decided to make a temporary proposal in order to get it started in a legislation, and that's why it's the right of fun doing the social support. A formula for building small pensions, our formula: The retirement here at least guarantees that 60% of the fair EAE salary will be guaranteed to be supported by each retired judge for $180 per month. As we point out in our proposal, we would form in four years' time, in a legislation, progressively. For in the first year, 45% will be guaranteed; in the second, 50%; in the third, 55%, and in the fourth, 60%; that is, 1080 euros a month. By that formula, the first year, the funk would raise the pensions up to 810 euros, and, in that measure, 118,000 retired parties would profit. After four years, the supplementary benefits would be almost 160 grand. To apply additional pensions progressively to the funding of that ingredient would facilitate it, and its cost would be acceptable for public chests. We've got some funding sources to make our proposal. In other words, tax policy would give a great deal of game to increase incomes, we should review the limits of settlements, or, for instance, use the opportunity given us by deficit limits. We are therefore talking about a transitional proposal, which guarantees decent living conditions, that is, decent retirement pensions, until we manage our own public pension system in a complete way. Four years to create our own system. Therefore, our proposal is based and based on what both the PNV and EH Bildu signed in this Parliament three months ago, although now the same people who supported it then seem to be going to reject it today. Surely the PNV and the rest of the groups will be shielded from the unfavorable criterion that the Government has issued on our bill, although it would not be the first time that the group supporting the Government has cast a vote different from the Government's criterion. There may be other reasons; we will already have an opportunity to hear them. So, what's the buzz Tell me what's a-happenin' We think the answer is poor and grey, with the air of an excuse. "Morn means that what we suggest is, in a great measure, guaranteed by DBE's complementation. We must remember that this present prop is founded on a minimum pay, so that the amount of money received from that side is lower than we plan it. The Government, in its view, also tells us that our proposal lacks legal certainty, because it would violate compatibility rules in the perception of social security. What we're planning today, in a small measure, is already being done. At this point, I'm just saying, "You know, it's just like, like, "You know, it's just like, like, "You know, it's just like," like, "You know, it's just, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, So we don't see the incompatibility. And finally, the government at a fourth point falls back into that same mantra, self-congratulation: our social protection system has no match. EH Bildu does not believe that this is the best time to boast of the social protection system, because right now this system is questioning itself for many aspects. The decree on social emergency aid should be amended at the proposal of this Parliament, to provide greater assistance, greater coverage; management of the GIR; of Lanbide itself, labour mediation, and the objectives set out in the Income Guarantee Act, are being questioned. Therefore, we do not believe that we can now state so clearly that our social protection system is unmatched, and it seems that we already have enough with that. In some ways, the Government's approach at that fourth point comes to say that in Hego Euskal Herria we have a good system, others are worse, do not come to us with occurrences, which we are already doing enough. The proposal we are debating today is an open, basic, simple but clear proposal. And we have presented it precisely in this way to facilitate consensus, to enable an agreement and to leave the door open to the proposals of the rest of the parties, precisely for the purpose of achieving our goal. A goal we hoped would have been shared, but they won't even give us the option to discuss it. We and we have no doubt that the proposal is viable, it is possible, and looking for the right funding routes, because there are, there should be no problem in implementing this transitional measure, which would help to improve the living conditions of many people. We therefore believe that this is more of a question of wills, even of courage. In short, this is our present situation and our proposal. We look upon the model surrounding the pensions as finished, and in front of it we wish to build our own system: a system founded on a more just model, public, which is intended to secure for the present and future worthy pensions. Collecting wants worthy conditions of life for all the citizens, and for that purpose the development of social rights is indispensable. That's our choice, our political choice. The question is, whether legislative parties think the same thing. Three months ago, during this gathering of pensions, Mrs. Gorospe said: "We repeat, it is a matter of political will. This subject, like the rest of the political area, requires dialogue and negotiation, and not slam." Ladies and gentlemen EAJ: we do not see today in those seats the political will Mrs. Gorospe spoke of, and unfortunately, this time, you've been shot. But we have clearly shown that the shock was not given in the nostrils of the EH Collectors; in this case you have given it to the people, to the euscal society, to the nostrils. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. After that, in the opposite round, Maniro is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u3	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari. Fortunately, as EH Bildu points out in the explanatory statement of his initiative, in the Spanish State (i.e. in Spain) the basic legislation and the economic regime relating to social security are the exclusive competence of the State, so the fundamental elements characterising the pension system are in the hands of the State. As a result, the pensioners of Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa are included in the general system of the State, and as a result suffer their shortcomings, but also their virtues. Just as, by way of example, the Albanians suffer or enjoy the political decisions of the Basque Government that affect them. And when there are decisions that harm them, they will not ask for independence from Euskadi or for certain decisions that could break equality between Basque citizens. At least we wouldn't. What we would want to do would be to correct those decisions of the Basque Government or to change government, but we would not promote the political independence of Alava, nor would we promote the submission to the decisions made by the Basque Government. Nor would we promote political decisions that could break equality between Basque citizens. The fact that the pension system is unique is a hugely positive thing for citizens, as we have explained and argued on countless occasions in this Parliament. Another thing is that we have suffered from Spain's governments who have been insensitive to the needs of our pensioners, or who have been unable to advance the reforms that the system needs and needs to dignify or improve it rather than to cut it down, or who have squandered on unimportant matters as miserable pensions were consolidated. But being unique is positive. The public pension system is an elementary, fundamental and basic matter of state in a democratic and legal state. It is the fundamental social basis that the welfare state supports. It is respect for that very important part of society that deserves not only respect for what it has contributed, but also demands dignity, justice and tranquillity. The one-size-fits-all cash system has countless kindnesses. Centralized single-box management is absolutely recommended. These types of systems are safer the larger they are and the more diversified their income-generating systems have. Pension systems work best the more universal they are; it is the most sensible way to manage resources of various origins and destinations. It is the best way to ensure an institution built on solidarity between generations, between territories, between regimes and between different incomes. Nationalism argues that Euskadi is self-sufficient in maintaining its own social security system, not communicated with Spanish, and that pensions in Euskadi would be better than current pensions if the management were actually its own and independent from the rest of the country. They are free claims, demagogic and lacking the slightest rigor, as we have explained on countless occasions. The future is to move towards European social security, i.e. to expand the number of participants in the system, rather than to share it in towns, autonomous communities or provinces. The nationalist imaginary always introduces an issue in this debate: the ridiculous myth that they would better manage pensions, and that better management would mean greater income that would improve Basque pensions. The fact is that the management of Social Security is of a highly specialized technical content, carried out at the moment by a staff made up of personnel specifically qualified for such management, experienced in it and with levels of efficiency and effectiveness unequaled by no other Spanish public administration, including Basque. Therefore, we believe in a public, solidarity and unitary system for the whole country, which includes and allows, yes, decent pensions for all Spanish pensioners, obviously without breaking the equality that guarantees the single box, because it is the best way to guarantee greater equality, greater viability and greater solidarity, and without traps or subterfuges like the one that EH Bildu poses to us today. EH Bildu points out that as long as the Basque pension system is set up, which would ruin us, the Basque Government assumes the responsibility of supplementing low retirement pensions by means of a supplementary benefit. As the Basque Government, indeed, we have shown our unfavorable view, and we will therefore vote against this initiative. Because the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion is in force, which, beyond being perfected, has yielded good results, and because the proposal for a law lacks the necessary legal certainty, because it would violate the rules of compatibility in the collection of social security benefits, and because the proposal would further deepen the growing civil inequality that prevails throughout Spain. For all these reasons we shall vote against. Finally, let us improve pensions for all, rather than patching up here or there and promoting inequality within the State of which we are citizens, let us improve pensions for all and for all, let us end social cuts, let us improve the productive model, let us create decent and stable employment. This is what we propose, that is the way to improve the well-being of Spanish pensioners, and also the way to improve the well-being of Basque pensioners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Next, representing the Basque Group, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. The President, the chief physician, the congressman, all good days. We've come to express our position on the counter proposal set by the EH Collectors. The final object of the proposition of EHGR is to create a system of its own in Araban, Gipuzia, and Biscaia, in order to secure a few pensions according to them. According to the proposal made by the EH Bildu group, until the implementation of a pension system of its own in Euskadi, all retired persons in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa will be ensured that they cover at least 60% of the average net salary of the CAPV. And we are told in this proposal that this percentage will be progressively reached in four years, as Mrs Blanco has explained to us. In other words, it proposes a transitional proposal, in order to reach the end of this objective, which is the creation of a pension system of its own. We're going to vote against us, and we've got to say that we're going to vote for shape and content. As far as form is concerned, we have to say from the People's Group that this initiative leaves much to be desired in relation to a normative text which is supposed to be the content of a proposed law, that is to say a law with a law rank, which, as we all know in this Parliament, is not anything, or should not be anything. As far as the substance is concerned, I will refer to three issues, apart, of course, from the unconstitutionality of the proposal. It must be made clear to the nationalists that recently, as Mrs Blanco said, they signed a joint initiative to move towards or be able to move towards a Basque pension system of their own, that the guarantee of pensions for the Alaves, Vizcay and Gipuzcoans is precisely the solidarity of all Spaniards, that is, the single cash principle governing the social security system. This is why we must say that the guarantee of Araba, Gipulia, and Biscay pensions is made by the solidity of all the Spaniards, thanks to the principle of the only chest of social security. How will it be guaranteed the solidarity of our pensions, those of the Basques, a system of our own, when we are deficient? How will the solidarity of Basque pensions be guaranteed by a system that is deficient? How are we going to guarantee pensions for Basques in the future with social security contributions for workers who are not used to cover the pension costs we generate in Euskadi? Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you here of the figure, the expenditure and the revenue. We are in deficit at the end of 2015 in the amount of 2,450,560 euros, and that is the reality, ladies and gentlemen. But it must be said here that we have always been deficient. Also ten years ago we were deficient, when we were in full employment. And the forecast is that next year we will be in deficit by 300 or 400 million euros more. I would also like to recall here the characteristics of Basque society. In 2015 we are a population of 2,194,900 people. This population will gradually decline in the future: 2,115,000 in 2021, 2,077,000 in 2026. I mean, the forecast for the future is that we're going to be less. The adult population between twenty-sixty-four years of age has decreased by 33,000 people in the period 2000-2015. We are the oldest society: the population over the age of sixty-five reaches almost 22%. And we also have the highest pensions: compared to the state average of 899.29 euros, here the pensioners – of which we are very happy in the People's Party – we charge 1,114.79 euros. And to put reality on the table, Mr. lehendakari, with all this data, is not to appeal to the language of fear, as you recently said... (Don't put that face on me, because these are your words that are in the transcripts of a plenary just now, when you referred to this question by answering Mr Damborenea.) That's not the language of fear, Mr. Lehendakari. That is to be responsible and grab the bull by the horns, to which we are not very accustomed this government that you have the honor to manage. Pentsio egokiak edukitzeko ezinbestekoa from systemren egonkortasuna bermatzea. And to have decent pensions, ladies and gentlemen, it is first and foremost necessary to guarantee the sustainability of the system, through reforms that make it viable to guarantee pensions in the future. That is why the reforms launched by the People's Party have been aimed at guaranteeing, preserving and consolidating the public pension system and its status as a distribution system. And that is the first message of tranquillity that must be given to pensioners, and also to Basque pensioners. First, the sustainability of the system depends on income. All of these reforms aimed at creating jobs represent higher incomes, more social security contributors, as in the last month of April: 158,000 new members of social security; in Euskadi, 2,764 new members compared to the previous month (the best data since April 2003). Man, I would like to remind you that when things are not going well here – and that is what the Socialist Party's governments are getting used to – social security contributors are also being lost. Or remember, when 3 million social security contributors were lost, 80% of that loss was due to the management of the Socialist Party governments headed by Mr Zapatero. The Socialist Party will tell me that I always turn to Mr Zapatero, but it is true that the management of Mr Zapatero left a very bad legacy for this country, which the People's Party had to arrange precisely with the effort and thanks to the efforts of the reforms put in place, and thanks to the efforts of all the Spaniards. And remember that social security deficit that the Socialist Party left us for the second time. It is that every time the Socialist Party governs Spain it leaves Social Security in bankruptcy. He doesn't seem to know how to do anything else, and that his deficit forecasts wouldn't appear until 2018. On the other hand, in order to guarantee pensions, it is also necessary to respond to the demographic forecast and to the specific economic situation, and that is precisely what the reforms of the People's Party have done. In a situation of economic normality the pensioners will be increased their pension, or the CPI, or more than the amount of the CPI, or above the CPI. But in a situation of economic difficulty it is ensured that, despite a negative inflation, pensioners will not be frozen their pension – as it happened, as I said before, for the first time in our history with a government of the Socialist Party – and there will always be an increase of 0.25 %. No one, with the Reformations driven by the Populous Party, will plan to freeze the pensions again in the future, as I say in the popular party, thanks to the reforms urged by the bracken. No one, therefore, and thanks to the reforms of the People's Party, will be tempted in our country to freeze pensions again. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the purchasing power of pensioners has been restored, and the rise of pensions has been reinforced by law, in order to prevent them from freezing again. Collectives have also been recognized for their efforts. Mrs. Blanco made an appeal to working mothers. For that is the reality that the People's Party has attended to with the supplement of pensions to mothers. Yes, Mrs Blanco, it is that women who retire from January, who are already withdrawing from January, are receiving between 5% and 15% more pension depending on the number of children. And precisely the aim of this measure is to compensate the loss of time, membership and contribution bases for the dedication to the care of the children of working mothers. These are real measures, and not cheap demagogy to which we are accustomed certain parties with certain proposals. On the other hand – and I am going to finish, Madam President – in Euskadi it complements those who do not reach a minimum income set out in the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion. And precisely that formula that we arbitrated in the concrete amendment that gave a solution to that provision provided for in the Law for the Guarantee of Income and for Social Inclusion – and I remember very well, because I carried that law – was given by the People's Party, precisely so that the possibility of supplementing those lower pensions in Euskadi would be viable and would not be resorted to by the Government of Spain. Yes, Mrs Blanco, you were not in this House at the time, but go over the hemerotheque, because you will see the speeches and that was so. Yes, I will give you the reason on one point: Lanbide's management leaves much to be desired, undoubtedly, with 128 million euros of undue charges, a brokerage rate of 3.13%, a member of the government who already recognizes that this is a failure and that even his children would recommend going to Lanbide...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u6	Finish, please, Mrs Garrido...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u7	And I'm finishing up, Madam President. There, I'll give you the reason. Even more so for more issues to be managed, apart from the fact that, as I said to you – and I am finishing now, Madam President – we are facing an over-competence and, as the Government's approach says, this initiative lacks the minimum legal certainty, which would violate the rules of compatibility in the collection of social security benefits.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u8	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. The time of the others. Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u9	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief officers. Good morning, everyone. The vote of our legislative team will be contrary to the legal proposition presented by the EH Collectors. And I'll use some of your words to argue against us. You said, Mrs. Blanco, the little retirement... Or we should need a real formula, and you plan it. We've already started our own formula for years in Euskadin. And more than 20,000 people get an extra money to deal with and add it to widowhood tests. More than 20,000 people, Mrs. Blanco, have been in Basque for many years, with a social protection system that really is a reference for other communities, for other countries... It was paying a supplementary pension to more than 20,000 persons receiving widow's pensions. Eta zuk hori on which bath Hobeto dakizu. Our own formula is already in progress. Basque social protection system is already running. We have no wish to appear in photographs at all. The J. J.A. Party J.A. does not blind the desire to appear in photographs. But the proposal presented by EH Bilt has been made of lightness. She's got a clever case of Sharpness. He's out of financial analysis. He has no legal security. That is not writing and putting forward a text in a clear and simple way, so that we can all support that initiative. Not at all. That is to put forward a text in a sluggish way, without any rigour, which it does is to prevent anyone from supporting this initiative. Because it is not the same as a legislative chamber, it is not the same as a parliament like this, giving way to an initiative like this, which is merely a propaganda idea and with a clear electoral intention. Pure propaganda, written in a sloppy way, and not in a clear and simple way. This prevents other political parties from being able to support, channel and allow the debate to be established. Danbatekoa? Ez. Honelako gaiak serioussunez landu behar dira. They don't need a door. The Basque pension system and pensions are fundamental to Basque society. Fundamental, vitally important. And that demands that neither be given a doorway, as is being done in Madrid to the Basque Government, when the transfer of the economic management of Social Security is being demanded over and over again, as the Statute of Autonomy says, nor the roll to pass laws that are curtailing the possibilities of our pensioners and our pensioners, nor the discourse of the demagogy and populism that you are putting us on the table. Neither portaz nor demagogic; none of the speeches are valid for serious and rigorous progress in a work that would require much effort, much discretion, much joint work, much consensus, and not this. Arintasunez egindako ekimen bat. You said what we signed. And what we signed, and what you present today, or what we have today on the table, is certainly nothing to do with it. We said, "From our parliaments, so just that we said this: We are in a concrete legal regime in the legislature, where we must move, if we wish to act with severity. That's what we said, and that's not what we're saying in the proposition that EH Collect proposes. Not at all, Mrs. Blanco. This is what we said then, and on other points we had no opportunity to make one, and it was no doubt not proposed; so a little seriousness, a little severity, because this subject we are really engaged in is really important to this society, and it requires seriousness. The solidarity of all Spaniards, Garrido andrea, aipatu duzu. And the solidarity of all Basques and all Basques, who for fifty-six years, or for many years, more than fifty years, have been net contributors to the pension fund, what? Have we forgotten that solidarity? Who has been bringing you out of that fund for decades and decades and decades? He's been telling us about the deficit over the last few years. What's that deficit paying for? With what? With the fund that was formed thanks, to an important extent, to the fact that Basques and Basques for decades, I insist, we have been net contributors of that fund. The speech of fear said you, Mrs. Garrido. Eta, bai, egia da, hori da zuk egiten duzuen diskurtsoa, beldurrarena. Hori da behin eta berriro ebiltzen duzuena, éta lehen Blanco andreari esan diodana: gai honek ez du eskatzen beldurraren eztabaida Egypta, ezta demagogiarena. Neither fear nor demagogy, neither aspect should be on the table when we are talking about a subject as important as this. Ez beldurrik, ez demagogiarik; ez beat, ez beast. Eta esan duzu, aipatu dituzu, PPren ereformak eta PPren ereformari esker egindakoa. Mrs Garrido, what you have forgotten is that as a consequence (not to say "thank you"), as a sad consequence of the reform of the People's Party, pensions will be reduced by 5% per decade, and will reach 2050 with a system protection of 20% lower than the current one. That is the consequence of the reform that you have carried out. Moreover, its reforms are in contradiction with the recommendations contained in the European Union's 2012 White Paper on Social Security for Europe. They are against what the 2012 aging report says. They are against, against, the European strategy of 2020, the forecasts of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Lisbon Summit and the essential content of Articles 41 and 50 of that Constitution to which you so often refer. We say again from our group: Let us seriously discuss this. Me miedo, I swear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Passing on the day's answers, Mrs. Blanco, representing EH Collector, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u11	Eskerrik asko berriro, president andrea. Mrs Garrido, I am not going to use two or three minutes to argue with you, because to discuss some data you have given I am not going to waste my time. I believe that the arguments you have put forward here do not believe them or their own potential voters. Mr Maneiro, Mr Urkullu, be careful and tell Mr Erkoreka that he wants to remove his post, because he has acted as a government spokesman. He has acted as a spokesman for the Government, he has been shielded in the Government's view, and point. And Mrs. Mendia. At least you've discussed it! We have discussed, we have spoken, with our differences... What surprises us is what the Socialist Group is going to do in this case. How many times do you accuse us that we don't devote ourselves to eating things, that we don't make proposals that really interest citizens! We're debating, and you're going to give him a doorway, through the back door, in five minutes. The first question I want to ask you all is whether you share the diagnosis we made in the first intervention. If they consider the management of pensions to be harmful, if they consider that the pensions that today receive the majority of retired Basques are mostly miserable. We'd like to know if you're sharing that reflection with us. We would like to know whether they also consider that the majority of pensioners and pensioners in the Netherlands are finding it increasingly difficult to survive with their remaining retirement pension. Because yes, the shopping basket is expensive and pensions rise by 0.25 %, and because with their pension they not only have to survive them and them, we are seeing many cases in which they also care for other living units (children, daughters, grandchildren, grandchildren) because they cannot pay a mortgage, because they cannot pay the rent, because they have remained unemployed. Do you share all that? Do they share it? Because, if you share the vision that EH Bildu has on this issue, we do not understand why your answer is a no-fly to our proposal. We don't understand why they say no today, and three months ago they did. Yes, Mrs. Gorospe, we signed what we signed. It's no different. Our proposal is a transitional one because we know that what we signed on that day is going on, I told you in the first intervention, and we have sought a transitional solution, at four years, based precisely on that third point of that compromise amendment. And any questions you might have, or any doubts you might have, would have had your chance. They could have been translated into amendments to our bill, we could have discussed it, had the opportunity to listen to experts in appearances, to talk about it in a paper... Because we have already told you that this bill is not ridiculous, Mrs Gorospe, it was basic and open to negotiation. Very basic, yes, but open to negotiation, because precisely what we wanted was to reach an agreement. The Basque Nationalist Party says no to an ILP backed by thousands of signatures that sought to guarantee a decent pension, and does so in an disrespectful way with the people who pushed it. His style is getting more and more amazing. The PNV says a non-controversial to the ILP of ELA on social clauses, a proposal conceived again on the street, a proposal that sought to improve the working conditions of 555,000 people. It seems that you are allergic to the proposals of the citizenry, because you do not like any. Allergy, rashes and tremors in the legs every time a broad, consensual and pregnant proposal has come to this Parliament on the street. That is true, you are devoting yourselves to responding with a non-routine, but on the other hand we do not see any proposal, Mrs Gorospe. We don't see a proposal. It seems that you have some text on pensions, and we say "seems" because we know it through the media, we know it thanks to Teleberri and thanks to a connection from Sabin Etxea. But here zero, nothing at all. In a few days we'll start the election campaign again, and I'm sure you'll knock on those people's door. He accuses us of campaigning: you will knock on the door of those people to whom you have again said no today. First they give them a door, but then they ring the bell. They're ringing their bells. I guess it'll be to give them candy, balloons for grandchildren and the vote, because no proposals, no proposals. EH Bildu has socialized the bill that we are presenting today. We've talked to hundreds of people who already know her, and those same people have moved us that they don't want to resign, that they want to mobilize, that they're going to keep fighting and demonstrating, like those who are out there today on the street, and that they're still collecting signatures. We have been moved that they are going to bring that proposal back to Parliament, and so are we. So, Mrs Gorospe, you are looking for new excuses, because it seems that you are again going to encounter a problem. Or take antihistamines, because your allergy is going to get worse. And as people on the street continue to mobilize, EH Bildu will continue to propose solutions from institutions. It must be admitted, however, that we will have to ingenuate them in order to achieve a proposal that is in the interest of your ladies and gentlemen. Don't forget that today we all portray each other. Today they're not worth postures. Today we will vote, we will decide. Everyone will know how they want to get out in that picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u12	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Maniro, on the other hand...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u13	Yes, thank you very much, President. I would like to postulate yours, Mrs Blanco, who is dramatizing your alleged arguments here, and yet withdraws to the seat in laughter, as if we were not talking about a matter serious enough to give you a solution that is indeed serious, effective and possible. And you haven't raised any of this. He's done basically demagogy. He has pointed out an unfair situation, which is suffering thousands of Basque pensioners, but the solution he proposes is not viable, and we do not share it. I have not acted as a spokesman for the Basque Government. It is possible that we will certainly coincide in this case with the vote of the Basque Nationalist Party, but some of the arguments are very different. I have spoken for UPyD, and I have put forward the same arguments I have put forward on this issue in recent years. I have come to say the same things, many of which, in the end, do not share either the Basque Government or the Basque Nationalist Party at all. I have pointed out, for example, that fortunately the basic legislation and the economic regime relating to social security are the exclusive competence of the State, and I have pointed out that this is good, that this is good for the whole population. I do not think this is shared by the Basque Government, but it is a political position maintained in time by UPyD. I have also pointed out that the public pension system is an elementary, fundamental and basic matter of state in a democratic and legal state, it is the fundamental social basis that the welfare state maintains. This is also an argument sustained over time by UPyD. And I have pointed out some of the unique cash system's goodness. I have pointed out that, in fact, one thing is that the system is positive and that it has to be unitary, and another is the political decisions of the different governments that we have suffered in recent years, and that they have indeed been betting on certain social cuts and also cuts in the pension system. Therefore, what needs to be done is to change the government or change the measures taken by the Spanish Government, because, of course, they affect us all. But the solution is not to patch up the situation, the solution is not to promote inequality among fellow citizens. The solution has to be to improve the system, to improve the lives of all Spanish citizens and also the lives of Spanish pensioners, and, of course, also the well-being of Basque pensioners. We can therefore agree that many of the pensions that many Basque citizens receive are miserable, clearly unfair and should be improved, but we do not share what you propose. I have also talked about cuts by the People's Party and the Socialist Party in recent years in the pension system: instead of pushing reforms to improve the pensions of all and that all of them can be worthy, they have done just the opposite. But that is exactly what needs to be changed, the political decisions emanating from the Spanish Government, whether from the Socialist Party or from the People's Party. We want to increase everyone's pensions, we want Spanish pensioners and Basque pensioners to have better pensions, to have decent pensions, and indeed to increase all of them and especially the lowest ones. I have therefore explained that the proposal that you put forward would further deepen the growing civil inequality that prevails throughout Spain, and that is why we will vote against it. And what we propose is to improve pensions for all, instead of patching up here or there and promoting inequality within the State of which we are citizens. These are our arguments, defended for years in this Parliament and in the Congress of Deputies. I do not know whether these are the arguments of the Basque Government; they are ours, although in this case it is clear that we will agree on the vote. A majority in this Parliament will vote against your demagogic proposal. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u14	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscalal Group Representative, Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u15	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Mr Maneiro, in the face of a serious issue, serious and rigorous proposals such as those made by the People's Party through the reforms undertaken over these four years, which are precisely going to make pensions never freeze again in the future and be able to go up at a minimum of 0.25 %. If that reform had been done before, pensions in 2010 and 2011 would have risen by at least 0.25 % and would not have been frozen, as a socialist government, Mr Zapatero specifically, did for the first time in our history. And thanks to these reforms, ladies and gentlemen, the overall combined expenditure on pensions in March has reached a record figure. And check the data. And thanks to these reforms, ladies and gentlemen, the average pension has increased by 1.87% annually. Review the data, ladies and gentlemen. Much remains to be done, no doubt, but that is the way to ensure that our pensioners, including the Basques, have decent pensions. Therefore, the guarantee of the Basque pensioners and the rest of the Spaniards is the solidarity of our system, the one-size-fits-all principle. Yes, Mrs Gorospe, that reserve fund which was arbitrated by the People's Party and which has left the Socialist Party two consecutively empty, leaving Social Security bankrupt. And I have to remind you of the data, that you, as it is quite thorough, I imagine you will have reviewed them, the deficit of 7,750 million euros between 2010 and 2011. That is the reality that the Socialist Party left us also in the pension deficit in those two years. And if we had had that 0.25 % formula of the People's Party, pensions would not have been frozen, because a People's Party government has never done that, freezing pensions, neither the Spanish, the rest of the Spanish, nor the Basques. And it is not just the one-size-fits-all principle, but the policies that have been put in place for job creation. Those policies which, as here nothing is done and the lehendakari is a little impassable and to see them come, therefore, the Basque Government also takes advantage of, because it has its own tools which, as we see, function as they do. Yeah. And there are the 2,764 new Social Security affiliates in Euskadi, 158,000 new Social Security affiliates in Spain. That is the guarantee, the best guarantee of pensions: more employment, more contributors and more income in Social Security. And, Mrs Gorospe, for a moment I had lost track of myself and thought I was going to vote in favour of EH Bildu's initiative. We've seen that recently... Because the goal they share, the ultimate goal of reaching a Basque pension system. Not in vain a few weeks ago they signed an agreement in that regard. But, look, those who voted against, with the lehendakari obviously at the head, to take over the management of the economic regime of Social Security according to the Statute were you, surely because you give up the Statute. We have not yet been given the formula, the new formula on the table, the one that liquidated the Statute. But you are the ones who liquidate the Statute and do not want to respect the Statute in the fulfilment of your forecasts, also in the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security. Therefore, it is clear which way is the way. The way is that of seriousness, rigour, the way to ensure the sustainability of the system and to guarantee not only today's pensions, to which our elders are entitled, but also tomorrow's pensions, to which we will be entitled, as did our grandparents.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u16	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Eubertarians, Mrs. Gorospe, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u17	Thank you again, Mrs. President. What we don't want is broken goods, the lehendakari told you. What we don't want is broken goods, which is what you intend to give us. What we want is for us to be transferred to the economic management of Social Security as laid down in the Statute. That's what we want. And you, broken merchandise is what you're giving us. That's the point. And that's why we're fighting, why we're being given what's on us and what's set out in an organic law endorsed by this people thirty-six years ago, and they're not doing it. Without legal rigour, without economic rigour none, without any financial analysis, without any analysis of the impact that the proposed law can have on budgets. Nothing, Huts. Zuek posetu izan duzuena ez da hobetzeko zen proposemen bat, izango zen egiteko egongo litzatekeen proposemen bat. The election campaign... Mrs. Blanco, you did have an election campaign. It has been a pure and hard campaign act, hard propaganda, and it's already sad. It is already sad that they use such an initiative to make the election campaign, to put all the initiatives here... By the way, he's forgotten about shared custody! What did you do with that? Because you only realize participation when it's right for you. It's your responsibility, the photograph, what you've just said over and over again: "Cada uno verá cómo va a salir en la photo." We don't care how we take pictures. I told you on the first round: The picture won't blind us. No, no, ma'am, but as we're going to leave, a serious party. The photos... You can make photoshops, you can make tricks, but the real photo puts everyone as it is, and everyone as it is. And the PNV is going to appear in that photo as a serious game that analyses things seriously. You are going to appear in that photo as a demagogic party, which no longer, apparently, bets on government space by making serious proposals, but is in strong struggle for populism space. That's your space, and that's how you're gonna get out in the picture. And others will come out of profile, unpositioned. That will be the photo that's gonna come out of here and we're not afraid of that. Lehen esan said 20,000 people dagoeneko, aspaldidinik Euskadin, beasts inon kobratzen ez duten kobratzen. 20,000 people are already receiving a supplement to their widow's pension in Euskadi, and nowhere else. Those are actions, that's action, that's moving from words to deeds. Eta hori da Euzko Alderdi Jeltzalea-PNVren lan Egypt modua: egin éza ez esan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. Now that the discussion is over, the vote is whether we consider the legal proposition or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters 21; the contrary, 38; white, 0; Abstations, 15.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u19	Consequently, it is not regarded as a legal proposition. Next, vote. The Social Party representative, Mr. Pastor, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u20	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists have abstained from this consideration because we understand the need for a debate on the dignity of pensions, but, of course, we do not share either voluntarism, adanism or the lack of rigour of the proposal presented today. We cannot give a yes to a proposal that sounds very good but that circumvents the fundamental debate that the progressives defend: decent pensions must be guaranteed because there are decent salaries that allow generating sufficient contributions. So welcome to the debate, but poorly presented diagnosis and solution. This country has been able to build a social protection system that guarantees resources to those who, under different circumstances, cannot have them, a model that began to rise twenty-five years ago. I understand that the abertzale left now wants to mark a little social, because it has been absent from all the great achievements of Basque self-government in these years. And we know something about the pension socialists: in the economic and social convulsion of the 1980s, when it seemed that the numbers were not going to give to maintain the pension system, it was a socialist government in Spain that made use of what it puts in the Constitution, that when reaching retirement everyone must have some income. And it was done for those who had contributed and for those who could not do so enough. A model of solidarity that has, by the way, been a success and whose sustainability is possible no matter how many people want to end it. The best way to guarantee decent pensions for today's and tomorrow's pensioners is for those who are now employed to have sufficient salaries to cover all their needs and for their contributions and taxes to help improve pensions. And the main problem we have at the moment with GIR is, of course, not immigrants, as some people bleat, nor retirees; what happens is that there are more and more people who, even if they work, need social assistance. By the way, this is what we have been bringing the Socialists to debate and what we are going to talk about again in a while. Something I've also heard from LAB's secretary general, with which we share a diagnosis. We are also surprised by this initiative, and it is that the PNV has opposed its consideration on the basis of the Government's view, which is certainly more political than legal. Because, this very Government, which is now showing a contrary view, had no means of allowing Bildu's proposal for a law to be dealt with, despite its great legal shortcomings and its flagrant unconstitutionality. Because, despite that contrary vote, the approach of this initiative, Mrs Gorospe, comes to endorse the PNV project on pensions, which is that of pure and harsh privatisation. It comes to accept that we are condemned to be pre-charged, because we are condemned to job insecurity; so that some pensioners will live on the aid and others, those who can pay it, on a private pension. And they have substantive coincidences on that issue. The pension system is bad, according to Bildu too, because it is Spanish. That's what you come to say in the explanatory statement when you say that there are people who are paying – I read textually – miserable pensions "because the Spanish State has decided to limit the capacity of the autonomous community in this matter". Anyway, it's bad and it doesn't work because it's Spanish. And the Spanish state, as they call it, is the one that makes it possible for the highest average pensions in the whole of Spain to be paid in Euskadi, simply because the salaries in Euskadi are higher. And if there is no such common Spanish social security, which some want to break, we would have to devote a quarter of our resources (i.e. the whole education budget, for example, about 2.5 billion) to support the contributions that are collected in Euskadi and the pensions that are paid here. Its magic solution is a separate Basque system, which for the PNV consists of privatization disguised as a supplementary pension system, and for Bildu in permanent aid. For we Socialists do not agree with either one or the other. If you want to talk about how to improve our protection system we will say yes, but with decent pensions and a public system to ensure it. And that goal is achieved, ladies and gentlemen of Bildu, with labour rights and fiscal policy, not with care measures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u21	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Second point on the subject list: "To discuss these causes at once, and to take up the resolution once and for all: "Mutation, introduced by Natalia Rojo Sozana Sozia Sozialistes, in the process of ripping off the non-commissional hydro-commissions, and the "fracing of the fracring," as a law approved by the laws of the Basque parliaments, the Minister's Council against the President of the Government on the declaration of the demand that he had made against this law. "Motion, Daniel Maezu Perez, introduced by the parliamentary members of the DDR, about the appeal of the Government of the Spanish Common-wealth against the Law of Facking." The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Rojo, is your word to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u22	Thank you, President, and good morning to you all. Indeed, the issue of fracking is something that we have already talked about in countless occasions, the last time in the last full session of control of two interpellations raised by the two parliamentary groups that we are presenting these motions today. I will say that the agreements themselves are always good, because they unite wills and pretend that the objective of this agreement in this case signed leads to a goal to be achieved by the political parties in this case. The agreements are always good when the signatures are not poisoned, and I want to think that the signature of the Nationalist Party to the compromise amendment is serious; as Mrs Gorospe has said, that it comes from a serious party, and that it does indeed intend to take the will of the Basque Government on the subject that we are dealing with today, which is fracking. And why do I say this? Because we opened this debate with a record of bad news, which is true that some of us predicted, that of the precautionary suspension of the law, which prevents fracking in Euskadi; a social victory that the Basque Parliament managed to win. And what's going on? That, with this interim suspension, this law will remain out of the legal system for five months. The lifting or not of this suspension will therefore fully coincide with the electoral campaign of the autonomous elections. Another bad news, in addition to this, is what Mrs Tapia reported yesterday in a forum in which she participated, that this government has hidden from this Parliament and from the Basque citizens since the adoption of this law almost a year ago. He has blatantly deceived the Basque citizens, and this despite the fact that two weeks ago Mr Maeztu and I were asking the Lehendakari himself and answering to us Mr Erkoreka. And from that plenary much could be said, because yesterday the councilwoman told us that, with the law that prevents fracking in force, with that law that the Basque Government said it was going to defend in force, her department has continued with the work for this technique. For what? Why were the studies being done, if in Euskadi we had decided that we would not allow it? For what? Why did they want to continue to invest money from the Basques, when the budgetary agreement with the Socialists already told them that there was no need to spend a hard one? Are you going to confirm today the complaint made here by Mrs López de Ocariz, that complaint never denied by the Basque Government's unusual interest in the Ministry of Industry in favour of what we denounce today? You will understand, gentlemen of the PNV, that one thing is speeches, another thing is electoral programs, another thing is facts, and, of course, today it is clear that another thing is votes. Today we have to say that the Government of the People's Party, in that re-centralizing effort, that which demonizes the Basque Nationalist Party one day yes and another too, has thrown a hood at Mr Urkullu. But we remind the government – that government of the commitment to the people, the defender of the Basques, that of the Basque agenda which they say is not being dealt with in Madrid – that there are other political parties in this House that do respect the social and majority will, and also the political will, and that we come to ask it to use all its competence not only to continue defending the law, but not to use only one of its powers, not a single public euro, in any fracking project, not in Euskadi or outside of Euskadi. And when I say out of Euskadi I mean the Angosto project. This government has deceived, once again. This government, which rode the last autonomous campaign under the cry of "fracking ez", came to the government to put all the machinery in favor of this technique. And they can't say no. They can't say no. Or they could have said it, if Mrs Tapia's statements yesterday had been others. But she herself recognized..., and I can teach you the cut of voice, in which she says that studies have continued and that it has continued to be investigated, giving just as the fracking law said in Euskadi. At the same time he said that it was that law that he was going to defend, because it was the law that the Basque Parliament had passed. Therefore, surely, after the favourable vote today – which, as I say, the vote itself is good, because it gives rise to a more majority agreement – it points out that, in view of the forthcoming autonomous elections, we will see Mr Urkullu again with the flag of the "fracking ez". The councilwoman, Mrs Tapia, who has always defended to the limit – that is to be acknowledged – the exploration of fracking in Euskadi, was shielded, before the appeal, in the classic PNV: "absolute interference with self-government". The spokesman, Mr Erkoreka, said textually, "This is the final stalemate of recentralisation." And he finished this Tuesday saying they're going to defend the revocation of the suspension. That's what he said this Tuesday, although last Friday he told us that, well, we'd see what's going on, if it's finally suspended, that it wasn't very clear to the Basque Government whether they were actually going to do what they said at first, or what Mrs Tapia said yesterday. This is not to pretend to look for accusations to the PNV where there are none; this is to put white on black: one thing Mr Urkullu says, another thing Mr Erkoreka says, and another thing Mrs Tapia says, who is ultimately responsible for doing or not doing in what has to do with fracking. And the government in general has a legislature carrying the backpack of reproaches and victimism on the one hand, and debates about self-government, which we still don't know where they want to take us, because I don't think you have it clear yourself. With all these advantages, it seems easy for the Government simply to comply with what we are proposing to adopt today and that, as I say, the PNV will vote in favour, to use all its legal resources to defend our powers before the Constitutional Court and that, once the Constitutional has suspended the law in a precautionary manner until the substance is resolved, the Government does not allow a single form of exploration or exploitation of fracking in Euskadi, nor does it participate with Basque money in any project, nor environmental. Why these reports, if we are never going to exploit this hydraulic fracture, if they actually listen to Parliament? The councilwoman yesterday gave the Basques the last hope of trust in her word, which she asked for her vote under the banner of the ban to end, as I say, by doing the opposite. A suspicion more than well founded, because both directly to different questions from the groups, and through their parliamentary group, all we have known to date have been objections to putting limits on fracking. Even when it came to voting in Madrid to amend the Hydrocarbons Act, the PNV voted with the People's Party. Neither the Government nor the PNV have ever believed that we would have the competence to do so, except in the last electoral campaign of the autonomous ones, so it is difficult for them to show conviction to defend those powers. Our last halo of confidence could, as I say, come from the electoral proximity. In the campaign this matter will be on the table and will be in the debates (in this one, in that of the generals, which will be on 26 June, and in that of the autonomous ones), and only the public reproach or fear of the ballots have made you change the vote today, or the possibility of being left alone according to what the People's Party could do today. Because self-government is something more than doing what you think favors you. It is using our capabilities to put them at the service of citizens' interests. And it seems quite clear that Basque citizens do not want fracking in Euskadi, nor that their money is devoted to this issue. But it is no longer just that the citizens want it, but that you have signed a budget agreement with the Socialist Party in which there is not a single budget item supporting fracking. And yet Mrs Tapia claims that she has continued and intends to continue to do so. The journey of this hydrocarbon extraction technique in Euskadi we all know, and this trajectory explains why in this 2016 for the first time there is not a euro, however much the government tried to do it through the back door. And that is why we are surprised at what is going to happen in this House today. That, as I say, I repeat, the agreement is good in itself, but you will understand that we are already a little suspicious of it, because, indeed, the parliamentary mandates you are not very much to fulfill. Therefore, this may be a day's title, but never compliance. And to the facts we refer. It took a lot to make this law, as you know. It was very costly for those who proposed the direct prohibition to understand that this route was the direct route for the future cancellation. We, the socialists, also had a hard time explaining it, not without social cost, but we were already coming with the lesson learned, because it was the socialists who a couple of legislatures ago we tried to prohibit the exploitation of the quarry in protected areas, with the PNV also against, with a concrete quarry, which you wanted to continue to exploit without permission, and the Constitutional Court already told us that generic prohibitions are illegal because they contravene organic law, which already in Madrid marked what could be prohibited and what was not. That ruling of the Constitution left us another door open, that of using our environmental powers to effectively prevent such farms. And we did it with a reform of the Nature Conservation Act, that modification that no one has questioned we could make, and that modification that got Zalloventa's quarry to end its exploitation. Therefore, when we considered the possibility of passing the law that would prohibit fracking in Euskadi, we understood that we cannot act as if nothing happened here, and we used our powers to ensure that it was not a generic prohibition, but always taking into account those powers that are recognized by the Statute of Autonomy itself. With this lesson we look around us, and we look at Catalan law, but not only on the alternative path it used, but also on what had been resorted to by the Government of Spain and, as we know last week, the Constitutional has ended up depending on it. Hence the introduction of competition in soil, of competition in the environment and of competition in water, which was totally different from what was proposed by Catalan law. But, as I say, we look at those powers, the Catalan law and the recourse to try to solve the problems. That is why we hope that, in the last five months, the Constitutional will lift the suspension and that the law will remain as this Parliament has approved, by a large majority. But once suspended (which has not been annulled, the Constitutional will study it for a longer time), it will be necessary to defend these own competences, and, above all, the Basque Government will have to remain committed to the people and not make any decisions that will encourage fracking. So, in the absence of a concrete statement from the spokesman two weeks ago and with the clarity of intentions shown yesterday by Councilwoman Tapia, we again ask this Government to stop vilifying victimism and, in response to the complaint of permanent re-centralisation, to combat that attitude with legal weapons, which we certainly know it has. And that the public presence in the licences that he may have alive is used precisely to prevent private promoters from taking advantage of this precautionary suspension to take giant steps according to their interests and against the interests of the Basques, who are the only ones for whom this Government must ensure. Having said all this, we are certainly in a surprising situation. Because if the will of this Basque Parliament and of the political parties that we are in this House today were reflected in that agreement that we have signed would have left all the debates that we have had about fracking in the past year, would have left the need for the Socialist Party to introduce the amendment in the Basque Government's Budget Act, would have left the initiatives that we have put forward last week, Mr Erkoreka. But you will understand, gentlemen of the PNV, that we do not understand very well what happens to this issue in the Basque Nationalist Party and why you do not finish defining yourselves and saying clearly what you think. Because we came from a debate before an ILP to which you put all the sticks on the possible wheels so that it did not come out what came out, but that finally, before an electoral juncture (at that time municipal and outlaws), you saw yourself in the obligation to modify the vote, and it was that that was. We came from a previous autonomous campaign in which Mr. lehendakari was the adalid of no to fracking, but then we see what happens. We come from a Mr Erkoreka who tells us that he is not very clear what will happen if he is finally suspended, has been suspended, and if the prohibition of the law is prolonged, if they will respect the will of this Parliament or will take advantage of that resource of the People's Party in Spain in order to be able to do what they really want to do. And, even worse, we come from a situation in which the adviser responsible for the branch tells us that she has given him exactly what this Basque Parliament has said, that she has continued to do what she wanted, which is what she said yesterday in Forum Europe. He will therefore understand that, although we have concluded the agreement, we are concerned about the agreement. We are concerned that you will use this House to make sure that we are all palms of your electoral campaign, not only on this issue, but also. We are concerned that in the end this issue will be dealt with to avoid problems, but that they will actually do something else later in the offices. Therefore, Mr Carro, I know that you are the spokesman on this subject, I suppose you will explain to us what the position of the Basque Nationalist Party is, but what we would like to see from the Socialist Party of Euskadi is to explain to us what its position is indeed. Is it the one who votes to amend the Hydrocarbons Act in Madrid? Is she voting today with EH Bildu and the Basque Socialist Party? Is she the one who defends Mrs. Tapia? Or is it Mr. Erkoreka's "we don't know what's going to happen"? What do you think about this? Because I am surprised that you..., the first point I understand is that you sign it, because it is the defense of competences, and it was just missing, but that you say that you do not want to put a hard public into fracking, when Mrs Tapia tells us yesterday that it is what you have been doing since the approval of the budget, and that you tell us that you are going to avoid, with the licenses in which you participate, that this is being carried out, because you have to understand that..., no longer distrust, but I want to think that it is the lack of knowledge of the PNV strategy on this issue. We will therefore wait for the explanations you say, and we will hope that, in fact, what Mrs Gorospe says, of a serious party, will be real and will not be a hairpin any more to target a headline in the future election campaign.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u23	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Next, Mr. Mazetu, it's your turn.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u24	Thank you, Mrs. Legs, and good morning to all of you. As Miss Rojo said, again, in this Chamber of Fracing a dispute, we think it necessary to explain why we are here again and again discussing the failure. For us, we are discussing the failure for two principal reasons today. First of all, because we made a law to prevent the environment and the practice that is injurious to our health, because we accepted it because it was suspended from the Chamber and now from Madrid. This is the first reason, and we think we ought to discuss it here. But there's a second reason to bring it here today. And it is a real threat to failure in this country, unfortunately, because there are, for the moment, two rights that threaten our country: one has right permissions to swallow, and another indirectly, Angostos permissions. And because both of them are still strong, and both of them are on the run. So there are two reasons: Because our law is suspended and the threat of failure is genuine and whether it's in the hands of the Basque Mia or not. And these two reasons are connected. How are they tied up or why are they tied up? Well, I'll make a little story, or I'll make a story to find out how we got to this moment. We had to make a law here, not because some of the American companies wanted to make a fracing-no, that's not why. Not because we were forced from Madrid to make cocktails, not at all. Well, we had to make a law here because you wanted me to make a fracling. And we had to make a law to protect it. We don't need to look too far away to see the threat and see where the problem is, unfortunately because the problem was here. And there's the key in this matter for us. Because it's urgent for us in the Constitutional Court... or the Constitutional decision of the Court-it is serious. It's a problem again because they remind us of Spain that our most energetic resources are not in our power. And this is a subject capable of reflection, because there is no possibility of making an independent project without natural or innate means, or without the control of my own use; it is not possible, and this is one thing to reflect on. But the gravest thing is not in this case, for that is serious. It's the most important thing, in this case, that, in the fracing case, the threat comes from here, that the threat is not out, that we don't have to look at Madrid because he's financed with the public money. It was therefore necessary to make a law, but not to defend it from an external attack; to protect it from an attack within. And because our country was threatened, because it was financed with the public money, but we also exported that threat, not only in this country, but because it's permitted to Ena, but because Anggostos is in Burdria or because he wants to make the franchise at Burdria, and we've always said it very clearly, we don't want it here, but we don't want it here, nowhere, and we don't want it here, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it, we don't want it. In this state of affairs the citizens were obliged to arrange themselves, and to oppose the failure of the people. In other enterprises, they proposed a law, and having obtained more than 103,000 signatures, they sent us a clear message: "I didn't say anything. I don't think anyone would doubt that was the public's message. Then we may agree or contradict, but I think there is no doubt about what the people were saying: "I didn't say anything. That's why they asked us to forbid the franchise. So the people's message is very clear what it was. But the people said, "Not just when they said, "You know, you know, like, "You know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you Therefore, just as I said before, we had to accept a law in this Chamber. And here we are, law approved but suspended. But I repeat, we must not look at Madrid in this matter again, because we have the right to decide in our hands here, in this matter, for the right to decide is in our hands. Because the owners are in the family's hands. Today, a fracking can be completed in Araguai, Bukka, and Gipuzia, and we don't have to wait for a sentence, we don't have to wait for a decision from Madrid. That's why we need a political decision. A political decision to make here. With the president's decision, that would be enough. And our question is: What's the decision? Franking, yes or no? I've tried many times to find an answer from this tribe to that question, and I haven't succeeded. I hope I have a chance today. Franking, yes or no? It is time, now, to speak openly to the people, because we can be independent in this matter, because no one obliges us to make a failure. It's in our hands in this case. And, apparently, it's like, "You know, it's like, "You know, it's like, "You know, it's like, like, "You know, it's like, "You know, it's like, you know, it's like, "You know, you know, it's all right." And I'm saying it, apparently. Why do I say that? Well, I'll give you an example. Unfortunately, "in connection with the "Facing" that the Constitutional Court has not only made decisions about our law; He even made a decision about the Catalan Act last week, and abandoned this law. And in front of this sentence the spokesman of the government of Catalonia said: "El Govern catagonán acoró est este martesantizar que en Catalña no se ulicia la tenicura de la fracturica o fractalicica en el provechamento de los hydroros, pesea a la sentencia Tribunal deculo que deconsciola la inconstinala la calana que tumá tumá mpala." At the post-Consell Executive press conference, Catalan executive spokesman Neus Munté explained that this decision is the response to the Constitutional Court's decision to declare null and void the Catalan rule prohibiting this hydrocarbon prospecting and exploitation technique. To make this decision, the Government is covered by the mandate of the Parliament. The spokesman for the Government of Catalonia therefore assured that the fracking technique would not be used in Catalonia, despite what the Constitutional Court said. There will be no fracking in Catalonia. And what does the government say here, in the Basque Autonomous Community, after the decision of the Constitutional Court? For yesterday we had Mrs. Arantza Tapia in a forum, and she said specifically: "The Basque Government's Counsellor for Economic Development and Competitiveness, Arantza Tapia, said yesterday that her team will conduct a legal analysis to see if it can resume the fracking projects it promotes in Euskadi". Catalonia: will ensure that no fracking will take place. Euskadi: They will analyse legally whether they can resume fracking permissions. And that's the reality, unfortunately. That is the reality with which we find ourselves. And today we find another reality. Yesterday Arantza Tapia saying that they will analyze legally if you can do fracking, and today the PNV signing together with Euskal Herria Bildu and the Socialist Party a non-law proposal that says that the Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to use, in the permits in which the Basque Executive participates through the public company SHESA, that public presence to prevent any research, exploration and/or exploitation of unconventional hydrocarbons through the technique of hydraulic fracture or fracking, both inside and outside of Basquedi. So, what are we left with? Are they going to study legally whether they can reactivate fracking permits, or are they going to use public participation in SHESA to prevent fracking? Because it's contradictory, totally contradictory. Therefore, I do not know what the explanation is, unless we are faced with the electoral schizophrenia of the PNV, the double game that with the theme of fracking · you have carried continuously. The same thing that they vote in Madrid for the ban on fracking, they vote in favour of the Hydrocarbons Sector Act, which gives legal protection to fracking. Schizophrenia. The same thing they are going to vote for today in favour of not using fracking, says the counselor yesterday that they will analyse legally whether they can reactivate fracking. Enough of double message with fracking. No more ambiguities and a very good measure of falsehood. Fracking, yes or no? Will the Basque government continue to drive fracking, yes or no? Because at the previous point we were able to listen to the spokesman of the Basque Nationalist Party, on the subject of pensions, accuse Euskal Herria Bildu exactly of electoralism and demagogy, and they asked us for a bit of seriousness because it is a very important issue for citizens. So, mutatis mutandis, on this issue stop electoralism, stop demagogy. This is a very serious issue for this country, for many peoples and for many citizens of this country, and for the health of the people of this country, and stop ambiguities, and tell us: fracking yes, or no. We have been very clear, and have always made the same message, or have used it in this matter: "I didn't say anything. Our message is deeper in the energy area, we are not at present in favour of any extraordinary hydrocarbic or exploitation. We believe that public policies and public funds must be placed in another direction, in the order of renewed energy. But that's another discussion. Around that technique, around the fracking, we always said very clearly: "I didn't say anything. And today, if you'd like to hear from me, you'd have to be a land without a piece of wine, and today you'd be a land without a guitar. Are you going to say, for once, what's your position on the franchise? That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u25	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, Mistto-UPyD, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u26	Thank you, President. For there is the very interesting issue, waiting for us to actually see what the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party are doing on this issue, and waiting for the arguments of the Jeltzale spokesman as well. But there is certainly a debate in which the absolute protagonist is the Basque Nationalist Party. I believe that the Socialist Party of Euskadi and EH Bildu, very skilfully, have managed to bring this matter to Parliament at a crucial moment, when the Constitutional Court has decided what it has decided and when we are at the door of autonomous elections, and therefore all the political parties, but especially the Basque Nationalist Party, have to speak clearly and have to explain their political position. And certainly the Socialist Party of Basque and EH Bildu have managed, although I do not know whether it was what they originally intended, to sign a transaction at the hands of the Basque Nationalist Party, but it is true, as Mrs Red said, that the signature of this transaction by the Basque Nationalist Party is at least surprising. But it is true that the Basque Nationalist Party has signed it, and therefore explicitly commits itself to what is reflected in this whole amendment. Therefore, let us say in principle that we must believe the Basque Nationalist Party. Beyond that in recent times, therefore, it has acted as it has acted and has not been consistent, today they sign that transactional and commit to what they commit to in that transactional. Two issues are intertwined in this matter. On the one hand all that has to do with the fracking technique, which is a matter that has already been discussed on several occasions in this Parliament. It is a technical but also a political debate. And then everything that has to do with the political and legal position of the Basque Nationalist Party in particular, and of the Basque Government and the Basque Parliament itself, in relation to the precautionary suspension of the fracking law by the Constitutional Court, and the political position that is taken from that moment on and how it is answered. Because it has already been said, although not in this literal way, but it is true that one thing is that fracking cannot be prohibited, and something else that its use is mandatory, and therefore there is much to say by the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government. In relation to the first question, in relation to fracking, we have explained our position in relation to this technique. We have consistently pointed out that all energy sources have drawbacks, and obviously also fracking as a technique for extracting non-conventional hydrocarbons. We have said that it is not a matter of banning this technique altogether, but that, as proposed by the European Parliament, fracking is prohibited where its use carries a high risk. We have also explained for many years that it is a matter of demanding legal regulation to reduce risk as much as possible. We already know that no source of energy or extraction technique is at zero risk; it is therefore a matter of minimizing it. With these arguments, we put forward a non-law proposal at the time in the Congress of Deputies, three years ago, with some ideas. We said that the cost of energy is one of the key factors in economic competitiveness. We said that our energy dependence makes it essential to explore, research and realistically assess our hydrocarbon resources and the technical, economic and environmental feasibility of their exploitation, both of conventional and non-conventional resources, such as fracking gas or coal-layer methane extraction. We said, and we pointed out in that parliamentary initiative, that independent international bodies warn that massive hydraulic fracturing techniques can cause severe environmental damage if they are not carried out with sufficient preventive guarantees, and added that, in our view, the solution is not to prohibit fracking, nor to prevent the investigation of its possibilities and consequences, but to establish rigorous legal criteria for using exploration and exploitation with minimal and reparable environmental damage. We also said, and we have said this in this House, that there are no sources of energy that do not have any kind of negative environmental impact, so the mission of political leaders, public representatives and energy policy itself is to choose the most suitable available sources in terms of efficiency, cost, environmental impact and sustainability. Finally, it is all these things that we have defended over time, and on the basis of all these ideas we have put forward the full amendment that we have put forward to these motions defended by EH Bildu and the Socialist Group. Having said that, we have the other matter, which is the appeal of the Government of Spain to the Constitutional Court of the Basque law on fracking, and the decision of the Constitutional Court to suspend this law. We respect the decision of the Government of Spain to appeal the law on the basis of its arguments. He's saying in his right. It has submitted a number of arguments, and therefore exercises its right to appeal against a law which, it considers, violates the Spanish Constitution. We also respect the decision of the Basque Government to defend the law politically and legally, and we respect, as it could not otherwise be, the political position of this Parliament on this issue. In any case, we do say the same as when we discussed the Housing Act and its suspension by the Constitutional Court: the decisions of the Constitutional Court must be respected. Having said that, certainly, as I said at the beginning, the compromise amendment that the three groups have signed, I believe it is meridianly clear, and in any case it is much clearer than the intervention made by the government spokesman a few days ago in this House when he was asked about the issue. This compromise amendment clearly reflects the political position of these three groups: they are against fracking, they seek to defend the fracking law before the Constitutional Court, they urge the Basque Government to prevent any project of research, exploration or exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons through the fracking technique, and they urge the Basque Government not to enter any economic item in future budget years. Therefore, I believe the transactional is clear. The Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Government are committed to all this. Therefore, the Socialist Party of Euskadi and EH Bildu – to be acknowledged – have taken a clear commitment from the Basque Nationalist Party against fracking. This, I think, is an obvious fact. For whatever reason, the Basque Nationalist Party assumes this transactional, either because it believes it, or because we are in an electoral campaign, but it has signed what it has signed. We will see if in the future it is consistent with what it has signed today. In any case, let us also hear the voice of the nationalist spokesman to explain specifically the political position of the Basque Nationalist Party. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mr Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all of you. Mrs. Rojo, you only wanted to say that in the Kansas photo the President came out from behind his glasses, not Mr. López. That's all you need to say. And listening to his speeches I am more and more reaffirming that this issue is a topic that must be very well bound legally, but very well bound legally, and therefore, when we were debating this law, and we had this debate almost a year ago, we did want even more reinforcement in that law that we presented, and we also proposed that five-year moratorium and the creation of that scientific committee. By the way, the scientific committee that today, these very days, is advising the Catalan government to stop using this fracking technique; the same scientific committee that you refused and refused to bring into this law, as well as the moratorium, because we left a more open field for the Constitutional Court to shake us, as it has been. But the truth is, we need to tie this very well legally. And I am also pleased with Mr Maeztu's words that he believes that this is a very serious issue for this country. And I thank you, so that every time we discuss this subject, so the next time there is a law on this subject and there are already three communities that have been brushed, it allows us to apply for appearances, in the same way that it annulled them at that Bureau. And it is also a pity that in the last six months in the central government we have not had a government, because in the last votes that have been in this line with the issue of fracking the only one that has voted against has been the People's Party, and the only one that has abstained has been Citizens, the one you Socialists were holding hands to try to make government. But let's go to the facts and the reality of what we're into. And it was, nothing else that came out the photo, that was why everyone found out that there was fracking here and what was this fracking thing... It is to be seen a lehendakari, Mr López, a lehendakari, in Kansas, talking about sixty years of gas parabens for this country, and not counting, during the following years of government, that to achieve those sixty years were necessary, according to the two geological formations and the comparative one, between 1,000 and 2,000 wells. And that's what he always denied. And, indeed, in that thesis – and that is why we are – while you, Mrs. Red, after Mr. Patxi López appeared in Texas on October 14, 2011... That, by the way, still last year the no longer president of Congress, and I would not like to say the words that he did not say on the radio, the Secretary of Political Action (this was on 11 March 2015, recently) still said that he does not believe that his Government was wrong about fracking, and insists that, with zero environmental risk, to waste sixty years of gas I do not know who is willing to do so. I therefore restate more that we need to tie this issue very well legally. And, as this same spokesman was in 2011 and is now, on October 14, 2011, when you do the interpellation, which you have in the Sessions Journal on October 28, and the Unda advisor tells you, and is here one of the great problems, apart from that you lean to do the parabion of what this system was... And here's an important figure of why the counselor is now saying what she's saying. "Since the concession, the joint operation agreement was negotiated with the companies Geico and Cambria, an agreement that was finally signed in 2010 and that will govern the relations between partners for the exploitation of the Great Enara", says Councillor Unda. And, as you know, the Great Enara and the Angostus have been unified, so that we depend on this agreement signed by you. That is another fact and another reality, that this country has to move on with this matter. Well, he was telling us about self-government... Well, I would also like to say, and I believe that it is also important, in this matter and in this period, how, thanks also to that attitude of your Government here in Euskadi, social leave was lost. And the social leave was lost because they were telling us about a sixty-year gas parabien here, but there was no talk about the consequences and how to get it. And even this very parliamentarian (which is the least) was deceived, when asked, even in the chemicals, and year after year they were saying a few times that we had to use BTEX, which are the carcinogens, toluene products..., and after a few months it was already said in another appearance that no, that they were going to spend a little more money but that they were no longer going to use these BTEXs. And in obtaining permissions as well. In 2008 this party left a single environmental impact document with sixteen wells; nothing more that the socialists came to the government, when they asked for supplementary documentation what they quickly said was: "No, no, fifteen wells we are not going to do. As we're only going to make one, grant it to me." And they gave it to him. And there's the history of how, in the next three years, as they were getting a permit, they were asking from one to nine, that they finished the legislature with nine applications. Then all these facts is what we have, and that is the reality that we have, with that social license that we have lost with this subject. And it is also clear that here we have a long history in the research of this country, that thanks to that still today there are wells that are poorly closed, even in the City Hall of Fourth, and it is still releasing natural gas. Or that this very company SHESA, which we are putting so badly, is trying to exploit a conventional natural gas field right now. By the way, to get the energy we all need. But one thing is the research obligation that a government has, and another is the price it has to pay for it. Because we have to investigate, yes, we have permits that we want to remain in the public domain and not in private hands, and investigate what our natural resources are, but not at any cost, as I am telling you, and that is why we believe this technique is not appropriate, and that is why we are asking for this five-year moratorium, and that is why we remain consistent. And I also want to tell you that I have not changed my mind and the Basque Nationalist Party has not changed my mind: while you were praising the Parabians, on October 28, 2011, then I asked the Unda Councillor a question, and the only thing I said to him: "At this point of natural gas what we would ask from the Basque Nationalist Party is to be prudent, Mr Councillor." That's what I told you, exactly that, to be prudent. And with this prudence and rigour is what we've been working with all these years, but there are a number of facts that are there, that have to be taken into account when it comes to indemnifying or paying any of these stories, which is what will come to us. But I am also glad about that speech, that this is considered a serious issue, so that we can quietly discuss this matter, with rigor and discipline, and not put the cry in the sky for this appearance to ask seven appearances to analyze this issue, when we had three communities there that had already been lying down, that we needed that extra effort. And that even when we ask a university professor – that we agree on the same character Bildu and we – he tells us that he doesn't want to come. Why? Well, because we already know what trouble there was here. I mean, we didn't even have that legal aid, and that story was denied. And I'm not going to get into what law is most important now, whether this or any of those others, or the number of attendees who have asked one or the other, because I think this is a serious issue, it's important, and we totally agree with this line. I mean, I don't want to lose those research permits, but what I don't want is to use this technique. But I do want to keep digging. There will already be other techniques or other stories, but I do have to leave the possibility. But who tells me there can't be a time when I, with a sad ball or a laser beam, can do that and extract energy from carbon bonds, or any other story? We have to stay open, but, look, that's why we said, not at any price, and not with this technique. And we've said that before, now, and I think... I hope it's always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u29	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potulag, Mrs López de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I use this turn to set the position of the People's Group before the motions tabled by the EH Bildu Group and the Socialist Group, motions preceded by the inquiry, where frankly, and once the plenary minutes were read and reread, there was no reply from the Government to the questions raised; the Government has granted permits, and no mention was made in the reply. It is common, of course, that Mr Erkoreka already uses by custom in this House, as a deputy, modular from the "speak" to the "death" to the "speak" depending on how he is interested or what he wants to deviate, forgetting that he is a member of a government and that a government must come to this House to tell what the government is doing and to tell the truth. And, Mr Carro, look, if at all I'm satisfied and proud (or at least satisfied, I don't know if I'm proud) it's that I voted for a lehendakari who told us the truth. He told us the truth, that you guys have been hiding a long time. Look, if she was being held in hiding, Mr. Erkoreka in the interpellation acknowledged that he heard from the press when he saw Mr. Lopez in Texas. Therefore, I thank a government that tells me the truth. I will agree or not, but it tells me the truth, which you do not do, which is very common in the members of this government, who already have very common features that give away that when they speak they do not conform to the truth. Therefore, I appreciate being told the truth, because we knew absolutely nothing. This House did not know him. As I say, I want a government that tells me the truth, that doesn't modulate. Because Mr Erkoreka comes here with three concepts: legal, competitive and self-government, and politics. And depending on what you want to divert, you focus on one or the other. And in the interpellations he only talked about a legal issue, he got mixed up in the legal issue, and he didn't say anything about the government's choice, what the government intends to do, when it's art and part of it. Therefore, as I say, Mr Erkoreka did not stick to the subject or respond to what was being questioned in this House. From the People's Group we have always rejected the false dilemma, the perverse fracking dilemma yes- fracking no. The People's Group from the very first moment – and I remember that first initiative in this House in February 2012 – we showed concern about how fracking activity was regulated, taking into account many circumstances, and we referred to the orography of the land, the location and location of the permits granted, what happened to the waste generated... And remember that amendment that we approved and all those paragraphs that I had. I think we have been respectful of the activity, but also taking into account the territory and areas where it is going to be done. Because today we have a permit from a well where it would be impossible to make an agricultural warehouse and you can do fracking!, and that doesn't understand common sense, no one understands it. That's a real barbarity. So, something needs to be done. But this Government does not give answers to these questions, and it is to what it must answer, to what is within its competence, and it can and must give it, and it is its obligation. As a People's Group, what we have demanded and understood in all the initiatives that have been discussed in this House is that we first need to see where the location is, what the environment is, what the orography is, and that we need to make environmental reports tailored to the environment where the permit is granted. We have always been committed to exploring and exploiting the energy resources that are within our reach, but not in any way. Not all areas can accommodate this activity, and we understand from the People's Group that it is necessary to protect those most sensitive areas. And then we find that the PNV a month ago in Madrid votes to suspend the permits of all kinds already granted on the extraction of hydrocarbons, to suspend the already planned explorations, that the use of the hydraulic fracture is prohibited. Then come here and do it. But, of course, you, when you go to Madrid go of cools, vote peacocking ("I am more left than anyone"); you pass Pancorbo, you put the txapela to three threads, and you transform. So they come here and no longer tell us the truths, they don't know, or they don't want to tell us, what they're going to do, they hide it; they do the opposite of what they're voting for in this House, which wasn't going to be the first time. So, do you trust what you are going to vote for today? No, none. No, because they have failed to comply with many of the things voted for here. Then why am I going to believe in this, if they carry so many that they have not fulfilled? Well, I don't believe them, I'm sorry. I want to tell you that, look, we are in a debate that is old for me, because fracking has already been a success when it had to be and where it had to be. This debate is a debate that could have taken place ten years ago, indeed, when the Government began to move the threads, but it did not do so because it hid it. And today the fracking is standing. It has made energy, energy products, and especially oil barrels, considerably lower prices, and as long as that price, which seems to be maintained in the medium term, is maintained, fracking is not profitable. Therefore, I think it has been a success where it had to be and at the time it had to be. Today I think that technique is not eager for any company. We are going to vote in favour of the initiative, and, as I was telling you, we want a government that tells us the truth and actually does what this House approves, and that is also supported by the political group that supports the government. It would be appreciated if they would do so at some point. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing on the answering shift, Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u32	Yes, thank you, President. Would you like to explain to me why you signed the amendment? I'm asking. Do you want to explain to me why the Basque Nationalist Party voted as it voted the law? Don't you realize that in his intervention he demonstrates the take of PNV hair to the Basque Country with fracking? I mean, you come here and you tell me that you sign the amendment, and you say – not once, but three, that I have counted them – that you are absolutely in favour of the Government continuing the investigation. Let's go to the amendment, paragraph 2, third row starting with the end: "...do not carry out any research, exploitation and/or exploration projects". What's the signature for, if you don't believe it? Don't you realize you don't believe anything you say? You come here and you have to save the brown from fracking. And I'll tell you more. You and we have very little to see, but there is one thing that makes us very different from the Basque Nationalist Party: we are able to analyze what we do, reflect, and if it is necessary to rectify. Because politics can't be done behind the back of the citizenry. And Mr. Lopez, who was in Texas (not in Kansas, was Texas the place of the United States), that picture that is the wild of the public to which you allude as long as you have nothing more to say, was there, in fact, the photo was taken, indeed..., continuing the work that Mr. Ibarretxe had begun five years earlier, with those records that the PNV did not teach and that were in Lakua. Therefore, Mr López is the one in the photo, and Mr Ibarretxe the one who started it. At least admit it, it's not that the PNV passed by and touched them. Not that fracking came to Euskadi by the hand of the PNV, with Eusko Alkartasuna and Mr Madrazo! So, the little things as they are. And Mr López is going to Texas, as I say to you, he understands that there may be an energy possibility there to apply to Euskadi, understanding the gas rafts that are said to exist; it is said that it must be tried whenever technical, economic and environmental (which or were fulfilled three or not worth), and once the issue is advanced the Socialist Party of Euskadi decides that this technique is not wanted for the Basques. What is the problem?Recognize that we have changed the political position? I wish you would ever say that in something you have to change what you have said! Because then I listen to you, Mr. Car, and what PNV are you talking about? The PNV of Mr Álava's deputy general? Urtaran's PNV? Mrs. Tapia's PNV? Mr. Urkullu's PNV? What PNV? But if you in every place say one thing according to the institution you represent! What are they telling us? It is just that I believe that with this issue at the end – I do not know whether it has been skillful or not, as Mr Maneiro said – they want to withdraw the point, because it is a shame that they have signed the amendment. They don't believe anything they sign. You want to keep betting on fracking research. You want to use the skills to make Euskadi more nationalistic and not to make the Basques live better. You do not believe any of this compromise amendment, but you have to save the brown that has fallen on you, you have to save it. But you want to tell me, Mr Carro, how can you sign this amendment? But if your speech, word for word, line for line, goes against what the amendment says! And you signed the law, or abstained in the law, because there was an election campaign, and now you have another! But do you not realize that what Mrs Tapia said yesterday is not an invention of the Socialist Party or EH Bildu? That there were PNV people sitting there at the hotel listening, and Mrs. Tapia clearly said that, even with the law, she had followed the environmental studies, that will continue, and that they have to see what will happen with the licenses. That's what Mrs. Tapia said yesterday. So, what do you want me to say? In the end, as a matter of parliamentary courtesy, we here who have presented the original initiative raise the immediate compromise, but, man, we understand that he is going to sign someone who has a political commitment to the issue. And you have an electoral commitment. E-lec-to-ral. And I'll tell you more. You tell us here about the ILP debate process. The appearances are not that they did not happen because we did not want to: some did not want to come, and you endeavored to extend and extend and extend. And all we needed was Obama to come to the Basque Parliament to talk about fracking, because we've heard a lot of appearances. I wish you had the same interest in the Energy Paper, by the way, which you preside over. And I'll tell you more. The only thing we are asking is that fracking, which is an issue, as Mrs López de Ocariz says, which should no longer be discussed in this House, because the Basque Country has already said what it thinks of fracking, because it is coming back here because there is an appeal to the Constitutional Court, which is the right of the Spanish Government to understand that its powers are being invaded, the only thing we ask the Basque Government to do is to fulfil what Basque society wants; secondly, not to lie, and, thirdly, to fulfil the commitments that this Parliament acquires. Look, Mr Carro, we do not withdraw the point or the initiative out of courtesy of Parliament, but you deserve to break this amendment, because what you have done is a hair loss. And if not, as you say no, I invite you to read your speech when the transcript is in place, because it goes absolutely against each of the points in the amendment. And in the end the PNV has been cornered on this issue, a-co-ra-la-do, because even the People's Party, which has put the remedy, is against its position. And, as Mrs López de Ocariz rightly said, the truth cannot be missed. Political ideas can be defended even if they don't go with the majority... Because you'll understand that today we thought you were going to vote against...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u33	Miss Rojo...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u34	... by common sense, in the light of the latest developments that have had to do with this subject. But anyway. It's just that I don't know what has to happen about fracking anymore so that you can clearly say what you think. Anyway, I don't think anyone believes this anymore. We have moved from an abstention in the law to a vote in favour of something that goes against what you do in Madrid, to a Mr Erkoreka who says that, well, that "we will see what happens", and to a Mrs Tapia who says she will continue. Therefore, hair takers is already good with the theme.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u35	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Thank you. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u36	Thank you, Mr. President. What a bad body, Mr Carro, what a bad body your intervention leaves me, the signing of this amendment and your intervention. Because you've come out here and you haven't explained what you have to explain. You have come out here thinking that the best defense is a good attack, and instead of explaining why they sign what the amendment says and yet the government does the opposite, it starts attacking everyone. There is one thing that needs to be made clear: fracking did not bring him to this country, Mr López. He was the one who made the mistake of pulling him out of a drawer, but in the drawer you left him. In 2006 it was already signed, under the Gran Enara permit, between the Basque Government, the company SHESA and two American companies: Cambria and Petrichor. And that leaves me very bad body, because you know that, you know it perfectly, and you come here to try to focus on the fact that it was another party that brought the fracking. No, no. The fracking brought him in by the PNV, had him in a drawer, and Mr. Lopez pulled him out. And then you guys kept using it. But what I was saying to you: you here have to explain, today, and I believe that the citizens and people who are following this debate have to know, why yesterday Mrs Tapia, before an appeal that suspends a law passed by this House, says that she will legally analyze the possibility of reactivating those permits – she said literally – and why you are signing today a text that says that in the permits in which the Basque Executive participates, through the SHESA public company, you will use that public presence to prevent any project (and listen well, please) of investigation, exploration or exploitation. Also research. Because you come out here to the rostrum and say we have to keep looking at what resources we have. No way! That says this amendment that you use your intervention in a public enterprise to stop investigating any non-conventional resource with hydraulic fracture, with fracking. Then explain to people why yesterday Mrs Tapia said one thing and you sign something else today. And I don't like anything either, and it leaves me very bad body, the argument they use – and it's not the first time – that this subject had to be tied up very well legally, implying that we haven't tied it up very well legally. Mr Toña also made a similar argument with the Housing Act: that we were in a hurry, and that we have to take legal care of how things are done. What's the matter, that when the education counselor gets the scholarships, she doesn't legally have something well tied up? Or when the Minister of the Interior resorts to OPEs, is it that legally she has something well bound? Or when it may happen that we have recourse to the Municipal Law, have you not bound, or have we not legally bound that law? This is not a legal debate, this is a political debate. And the State is systematically resorting to these laws to tell us very clearly that we cannot decide how we give housing to people in this country, what we do with our natural resources, or how we ensure education or public employment. That's the problem. It's not a legal problem, Mr Carro. Beware of that argument, because we do not resort to the law of fracking, which we have approved and you do not. No, no! We have recourse to scholarships, OPEs and many other issues. And finally, Moratoria is your excuse or your joker. Moratoy is to say, "Yes, but not now," that's Moratoia. What else do you have to look around the fracing? You only have to read newspapers or magazines to find out what a failure is, what a financial hole is left for so many companies, and we're paying public money here, and what a situation he's left in the environment. What more must we examine to know? In five years we'll find out that this technique is highly contagious and not profitable; it's not profitable. Public money and public policies must not be placed in fossil fuels; of course we still have a dependence on fossil fuels, but we must place our public and public policies in another direction, because it is not compatible to or to attempt to exploit the non-conventions of fossil fuel and the struggle against change of climate; it is not compatible at all. So enough; you must speak plainly to the public, and tell them at once whether you will continue to examine the fracing? Will you continue to examine it or not?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mistto-UPyD shouldn't speak a word... Eubertarians, Mr. Carro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I repeat to you again, and it is quite clear, just as it coincides with the statements of Councilwoman Arantza Tapia – who defends research but not the use of fracking, not the use of this technique – we are talking about permits that are granted by geographic spaces to investigate what resources there are. Then investigate these resources yes; with this concrete technique, which is a concrete technique, hydraulic fracture, fracking, with that not. And that's what Councilwoman Arantza tells her and that's what the Basque Nationalist Party tells her, and that's what I tell her and I'll keep telling her. And when reading the compromise amendment continue to read, because what it says is that this research..., that "use this public presence to prevent any project of research, exploration and/or exploitation of non-conventional hydrocarbons through the technique of hydraulic fracture or fracking both inside and outside of Euskadi". And that's what I'm telling you clearly, what happens is that I know I don't express myself well and I'm sure I don't explain it well: research yes; this concrete technique of hydraulic fracture or fracking, no. That's right, I'm sorry, I've mixed Kansas with Texas. Indeed, the picture was in Texas, that wonderful, under a white helmet, and telling us the truth, as Mrs López de Ocariz says. Telling us that here we are going to have sixty years of production, because we had a great resource... Let's see, what gas we've always known there's been under there! The problem we've always had, and that's why since 2006 there's been these research permits, because that's a duty of every government, which is to investigate what energy resources we have, in that 2006... And another thing is to sell the story of the milk, and sell the story of the milk thinking that... Let's see, if the gas has always been there! The problem we had is that we didn't know, with a specific technique, how much gas we were able to take out and at what price. And that's what Mr. Patxi López throws at, he drops the canteen, and there he produces the sixty-year-old and tells us the truth, that I don't know where Mrs. Ocariz would be during those three years, when she told us some things about the chemicals, when she wasn't able to say how many wells she had to do, and the platform was continually telling her that in that comparison of Barnett formation, along with the geological formation here, the Balmasseda, if she wanted to match them, would come out between 1,000 and 2,000 wells, as then they recognized at the end, that they had done the calculation so and that all that amount of wells was necessary. And this parliamentarian, in 2011, the only thing he told Mr Unda, apart from being prudent, told him that we have two energy resources: one gas, and the other drinking freshwater of our aquifers, and that it is prudent. And that's what we've kept all our lives, prudence. And then, with respect to Mr. Maeztu, don't confuse me with the laws used... I think we have a good example of when a law has been worked out, and it is the law of protection of natural spaces. That Nature Conservation Act prohibits fracking there, and that we were able to do because we did that legal work. But you must admit that with fracking there is nothing, there is very little legislation, and you need an extra effort, please! And, Mrs. Red, that I asked for seven appearances for a law that doesn't even exist out there, and that we have to make an effort...! Man, tell me you, that for the Tourism Act you have only asked thirty-four, and that I ask seven for fracking... Please! Then let's make it clear to the citizen: 2006, number of fracking wells, zero; 2016, number of fracking wells, zero. Please, don't fool the citizenry! There's not a single fracking well, thank God, in Euskadi, and let's hope it stays that way. And thanks also to Mrs López de Ocariz, because she has indeed said what we have done. At least he has already denied the two of them, which we are actually enacting there in Madrid that this law will change. And why? Because it all depends on some research permits, and we don't want anyone to have them or anyone to come here... We want to be the ones who know what's in there, that public control with that public enterprise. And then you have to count the whole picture. It seems very good to me that we should be efficient, that we should come on skis four and a half kilometres here to Parliament to take the picture, but, look! that I have come 54 kilometres in a car that consumes diesel. Please! You have to teach the citizen the full picture! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Representatives of the American Basque Team, Łódź de Okariz... he will not speak. Now that the debate is over, we'll vote for the Basque Socialists, the EH Collectors and the Middle Amendments signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 73; the contrary, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u40	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Third point in theme list: "Moro Saraz, a member of the Basque Socialists of the Socialists, presented to us on the question of the eucalyptic strategy of fighting against industry. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mrs. Sarasa, is yours to introduce and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u41	Yes, egun on lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. In its monograph on the comprehensive strategy to tackle unemployment and poverty, held in November 2014, the Basque Socialist Group presented a number of motions for resolutions aimed at encouraging employment and training, encouraging quality employment from institutions, strengthening public and quality employment for our essential services, and responding to the emergencies of many households. A year and a half later, it is appropriate to recall Mrs. Idoia Mendia's words in that plenary: "Having work is not a guarantee enough to live with dignity. We must review all the capabilities we already have, all the instruments in our hands, to decide where we want to take Euskadi. It is appropriate for us in Euskadi to be aware that this reality is among us, that there is a hidden poverty that day by day is coming to light, and it is better that we already start to remedy today, because what is at stake is the very basis of democracy, freedom and dignity of the individual." That is why one of the resolutions put forward by my parliamentary group, and adopted, called on the Basque Government to study real poverty as a result of job insecurity and wage insufficiency, bringing to light situations now hidden about job poverty, such as that of young people without emancipation or self-employed people, so that direct measures can be taken as soon as possible to correct their situation. This was approved in November 2014, and this study proposed a six-month submission period. It was at the end of 2015, and six months late, when the Basque Government forwarded to this House a document that called "study" but did not list the definition of concepts or the methodology used, and did not incorporate conclusions. In fact, it was a report drawn from the 2014 survey of poverty and social inequalities, which identified the group of employed persons as one of the most benefitted by the income guarantee system, and which sought to go to the social protection system precisely because of the increase in temporary recruitment and low pay. In addition, the report states that the existing labour instability, coupled also with the delay in emancipation, is having a very worrying effect on reproduction processes, with a marked deterioration between 2010 and 2014, which was affecting or is seriously affecting the population pyramid and the generational relief. And this question is very important and it is not baladi, ladies and gentlemen. Furthermore, we know from Eurostat that since 2007 there has been a doubling of the number of people living in households where none of its members work; that the rate of long-term unemployment has multiplied by ten; that a new form of poverty is emerging from precarious employment, with temporary, partial contracts and unworthy wages, and that we are at risk of this poverty being permanently established and turned into structural. Mr Toña said recently that the unemployment rate in Euskadi is being reduced by 10 to 10; however, the social perception is very different, because the latest surveys reflect this. The latest surveys reflect that unemployment and inequality are the two major concerns of Basques and Basques. The social impact of the crisis and unemployment is much greater than the figures themselves, and it is the profile of the people affected that should analyse and worry about this Government. Because long-term unemployment and labour poverty mostly affect young people and those over the age of forty-four with their dependent children. That is why we stress once again that it is urgent to implement measures to combat labour poverty that promote decent employment and wages; the generation of stable and high-quality employment, promoting equality between men and women in access to the labour market; and active inclusion from different perspectives, which facilitate access to employment for people at risk of poverty. And that those who work at sufficient income levels should be guaranteed while low-wage employment is a reality. That is why we cannot and should not, as Councillor Toña suggested, wait to know the data from the poverty survey that will be presented at the end of this year, simply to check whether this hypothesis is confirmed or not. In March Euskadi closed with 619 people unemployed less, and in April with 1,375. It is true that the unemployment figure shows a downward trend, and that is a good sign, but an eye, because the unemployment figure has many readings. Today we read in the press several editorials that collected different contributions and opinions; many of them are very positive and others, well, because they did I think an important reflection that this Government should also do, or I understand what it will be doing. Because it is striking that, parallel to the fact that these unemployment data are currently down, the number of persons receiving security income is showing a upward trend, it has been placed in positions similar to those of a year ago, which reached its maximum level. It is also striking that it is the collective of working people who are coming to demand this income guarantee income, the result of these poor wages that they are paying. And it's striking, and this I mean, that, out of 152,560...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u42	Please, quiet...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u43	Thank you, CEO. ... Of the 152,561 persons considered unemployed, only 15,000 have been unemployed for less than three months, 80,000 for more than one year, and more than half for more than two years. It is therefore urgent in the short term to work on reactivation for the employment of all these people, in order to be able to incorporate them into the labour market in the face of the emerging jobs that may arise. And in this it does have to focus the government, and use the instrument, which is Lanbide, and avoid that chronification in unemployment. A month ago in this House Mr Toña, here present, acknowledged the poverty at work and the deterioration of working conditions, and expressed his concern, but he avoided the responsibility of his department and his Government for this form of poverty that is becoming structural. He recognized that they have to try to minimize it, but he didn't say what they're going to do to minimize it. Therefore, we ask the advisor on this issue, because it seems that this government avoids talking about how, under the heading of entrepreneurship, self-employment realities of self-employed and false self-employed without rights, without support and without cover; self-employment that hides that many self-employed are workers who are dismissed from a company and cut as service providers without rights and with less wages... Because we do not know what this Government intends to do and because, having the powers, we do not understand why the workforce of labour inspectors has not been increased, why is that plan not being made that detects false recruitments. Labour poverty is here and has come to Euskadi to stay, and in that I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we all have to assume this reality, unfortunately. The very report submitted by the Government at the end of 2015 reflects this, and I must say that it also hides an even greater poverty, by not considering the young people who live with their aitas and their mistresses and without the possibility of being able to become independent, or those who work a few months a year or with reduced hours, and those who work for others, as I have said before, who are self-employed fakes. And we in Euskadi have a way of acting. We have the labour inspectorate, as I said, to avoid such frauds against workers, competences in active employment policies, a status to be expressed, an economic concert to take advantage of, and I understand that many social actors, many people who are willing to address bolder and bolder strategies. In the interpellation, Mr Toña said that employment has historically ensured social integration and has now ceased to do so. It recognized the need to tackle labour poverty through various work activation programmes and through all employment policy and exclusion policies, and also said that the maintenance and sustainability of the social protection system, especially income-guarantee income, must be ensured, defending it against the obvious attacks of recent times. And we can't say that we don't agree with those demonstrations, but we have to go further. I have to remember the words of the Vice-Employment Adviser, Mr Blasco. He said his children didn't even get through their heads to sign up for Lanbide. I understand that he consciously said that that was so, but, well, if those words have resulted in Lehendakari himself, in his intervention in the economic forum in Álava three days ago, recognizing Lanbide as a tool for guidance and employment mediation, as well as as as a manager of social benefits, and yet affirming that the Basque employment service in recent years has been more focused on resolving income guarantee income files within the required deadlines than in its work of training, counselling and mediation in the strictly labor field, then welcome. If this is going to serve to change policies and to change everything that is being done right now on the whole issue of job activation and training insertion, welcome be. We all want Lanbide to be identified as a job search tool. We want and it is necessary, it must not be otherwise. And we all want this government not to look for blame in other governments. Because this government needs to know that three years and a peak have been running Lanbide, and this government needs to have its own policies, and this government has its agenda, and this government needs to have an analysis, and if something is not being done right, it will have to be renewed. That is why we, the Basque Socialists, have tried to bring to this Parliament, as active and passive, the subject of labour poverty, with written questions, with oral questions, with an inquiry and with a motion. We have done so in a positive way, and I can tell you, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari, Mr Councillor, that we are satisfied, that our insistence has succeeded in achieving a very good consensus in this Parliament today; a majority consensus which, except EH Bildu, which will be on the stand and explain its position, we have signed all the groups. And that's why we can be very satisfied. We have agreed to urge the Basque Government, making use of autonomous competences in active employment policies, to develop, in coordination with social and trade union actors, a Basque strategy to combat labour poverty, taking into account also the motions for resolutions adopted in the 2014 monograph on unemployment and poverty, which have a direct impact on the fight against labour poverty. Secondly, we urge the Basque Government, through Lanbide, to step up the planning and implementation of personalised employment integration and training routes, with a view to increasing and improving the quality of employability. Thirdly, we urge the Basque Government to continue with economic programmes to encourage recruitment in standards of quality and dignity. Finally, we urge the Basque Government to promote, work and expand, through Lanbide, the formalization of collaboration and cooperation agreements with any legal person, public or private, whose objectives and activities are of interest to them in the fields of employment, vocational training, guidance, work mediation and labour integration, enhancing the collaboration and participation of social and economic actors in these areas, as provided for in Law 3/2011 of 13 October on Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service. I end by thanking all the groups for their good predisposition, and hoping that the Basque Government will get to work on the agreement reached today in this House, because it is Basque society that demands it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u44	Thank you, Miss Sarasa. Passing over to the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the EH Collector, Mrs. Zulaika, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u45	Thank you, ma'am, and good morning to all. To begin with, we must say that we believe that poverty must be cultivated in its full universality, in an integral manner, in all the dimensions which poverty brings. It must be disputed how to face poverty in its general, how to assert that it is worthy of life, but we are discussing how to deal with the presidency which is now widely spread in the sphere of work, so that I shall also be centered in it. EH is very worried about the day's preparation, very widely diffused in every area or in many collective workers, and I will give a few facts to place context, not very much, but some very significant, or important data. The youth unemployment rate is around 35%, and if we also take into account the youth unemployment rate of people with functional diversity, it is almost 65%, despite being more and more trained. 85% of temporary work is done by women. In 53,500 Basque homes all people, all members are standing still. 92% of new contracts are temporary contracts, and 7 out of every 10 contracts signed in Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa last less than 30 days. I think it is also important to remember that 100,000 people, 100,000 workers, currently have no collective reference agreement regulating their working conditions, with increasingly precarious conditions, with increasingly low wages, with longer working days, and that 44% of workers, about 400,000 people, have their collective agreements expired. Almost 35% of job seekers are working, and – the last data I'm going to give – about 95,000 workers are looking for another job to get out of job insecurity. The term working poor (working poor women workers) has also come to our country: people with low wages so that, despite having a job, they cannot meet basic life needs, they cannot have a decent life. There are more and more, there are more and more who have to choose between eating or turning on the heating. Today, therefore, we do not need to look only at the unemployment rate, or if it rises a little bit or falls a few tenths. It is also necessary to repair all these data, which indicate that job insecurity is increasingly widespread, as I said at the beginning of this intervention, in all groups and in all activities. And, of course, in every area, even in the private and public area, many of the employees of the public sector are in the presbytery, and I am reminded of the case of the working people of Eustate, who, for instance, had recently been here, many of them, and many of them, had only three months' contracts, and some of them have to demand an income to secure their income. In contrast to this harsh diagnosis, the EH Collect has introduced more than one initiative in the legislature. Another proposal, as we're discussing today, which has something right to do with what Mrs. Ardo has presented to us about a month ago. In that other legal proposal, we requested that the Parliament should ask you to do it in two months' time, and present it to the legislature in order to create a job of quality, and a new plan for attacking the general work-preference. This plan will mainly take notice of the states of women and young men, and it will have 500 million extra budgets. And we were asking for a fund of 500 million, because then we thought it would be because we continue to believe that the measures required to start are effective, not only to produce employment at this time, but to guarantee that the employment to come is really worthy of employment, and that is not valid with the budget now existing, and that economic resources are necessary. We know that there are certain measures that can be set up in various ways, without much increase in the budget, or by moving or adapting them from here to another place. We know this, but it is clear that we must take steps from a state of emergentity to extract from a state of emigence; for which we must commit to a certain sum of money, and therefore propose to create a fund of 500 million, and therefore we made the same proposition in our correction. With three principal ends, especially: In public opposition, however, of course, in order to make the preparation disappear in private in Russia, in order to establish the measures for the precoction of women, and in the Istanbulfunts, the third principal object to face the state of young people.... So, where did you get it? Well, then we explained it. For example, from the elasticity of Deficiency and humiliation. EHG, it seems to me, in this difficult and hard moment, they should have the privilege of resisting hunger and preparation, rather than of paying for the dignity of all persons, or of paying their debts. But even more, as we know in 2015, the non-excusions of the budget have been of 662 million, and, as we have been informed, the limits of the public defense were 0.7%, the executive of Urkullu has been severe and has gone beyond that level of execution. So where does it come from, or at least shouldn't be? In order to appeal to the budget of 100,000 million more than 500 million more labor collectors and worthy jobs, we want to make it clear that no absurdity is to be made clear, or at least not to collect EH and I'm sure it's not for society. We believe that even today the end of the initiative described by PSE is irrelucible, or we wish to understand that it may be very similar, since the bold measures of meeting the Precera are necessary: hired workers who are required to offer social services in public sector, to perform public employments, to complete the ill management of the profession, to review it. On the side of the inspection, what can I say? The inspector must be a refreciative paper to deal with the prevarietate, not only the petty merchants, or the bakers' inspectors, to avoid fraud in the host. What can be said of the measures of industry and security, or of the observance of rules, in the workers who work in business? What should we say of the state of women's workmen in order to improve their condition? And effective measurements for young people, too. And it may be a long list of lists or measurements, but again we say that to deal with the challenge that you have today, to end with the work-prefeet, or at least to prevent it, all these measures must be directed by budgets, or another expression which is only full of pretty words will come out of here today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Egun where you're going. Well, employment, stable and quality employment, and the actions that lead to it, must be on the agenda of all governments, and it is a matter that concerns us all, all political groups. It is not a monopoly of any group in this House, although it may sometimes seem that way. In this legislature, as has been said here, a full monograph on employment was made in November 2014, in which this group also made many proposals. We have also demanded, or demanded in its day, that the introduction of the employment law be advanced, but not only did this law not advance, but it will finally not see the light. And, as has been said in this House by the group supporting the Government, it is perhaps true that this law is not the panacea for achieving employment, but it will certainly be better to have that instrument than to have it, because actions aimed at achieving employment will be much more effective if they are coordinated and planned. And, therefore, our group believes that a comprehensive strategy against labour poverty is also needed. Because, while it is true that having a job is a prerequisite, a necessary condition, it is sometimes not a sufficient condition against poverty and exclusion. Talking about job poverty is a drama in itself, as it affects many families who are having a really bad time, and also in Euskadi we have that job poverty. Thus, studies by the Basque Government point out that the social impact of the crisis is much greater than the figures indicate. That is why it requires all public administrations, including this Government, to do a constant, cross-cutting and planned work to correct these social inequalities. Because the risk of poverty is not something new from now on; it exists not only in Spain, but also in other European countries, and not only now, but also for a long time. If we look at the data of the National Statistical Institute we can see that poverty and exclusion come from behind, and in the case of labour poverty it is a reality that affects all the autonomous communities of our country, as well as all the countries of the European Union. And if the time series are analyzed, it is observed that since 2008, the year of the crisis began, until 2014, the poverty risk rate of autonomous communities has not been undergoing large variations, but has been fluctuating around the five points of difference. This shows, without a doubt, that poverty has remained chronic in recent years, although it is true that the crisis has strengthened it. It is a reality that there are circumstances, as has been said here, that aggravate the social exclusion of people even if they have a job. This is the case, for example, with self-employment, which is a factor that increases vulnerability: the risk of poverty among self-employed people is greater than among wage earners, and we must take account of false self-employment. It must also be recognized that temporaryity and part-time contracts are another of the main factors associated with labour poverty (it must be recognized, and the data say so, that in Euskadi since 2009 the crisis has been eating fixed contracts). Many reports also ensure that the lack of adequate training is another key factor in the likelihood of a worker falling into labour poverty. The existence of dependent persons in the household also conditions this type of poverty: those who live in dependent households have a more difficult economic situation, and their poverty rate doubles that of those in which this circumstance does not exist. The reality of the data assures us that the Spaniards and the Basques are not very different from the rest of the Europeans, and that our rates of risk of poverty by employment status, as I say, are also not far from the European average, although it is true that they are above. And in Euskadi there is also labor poverty, but there is it now and there was it before. It has not emerged in these years or with this government, and it must be recognized this way, nor did it arise in Spain in this legislature, but it was already coming from behind. Because, as we have said, labour poverty exists many years ago, even though it seems that some have discovered it now. The socio-economic memory of the Basque Economic and Social Council of 2015 indicates that real poverty affected some 127,000 people in the year 2014, almost 6% of the population, increasing by 1.7% compared to 2013. And that rate is relatively favourable, it is true, with regard to the Spanish or European average, but partly because of the social protection system that we have in our Autonomous Community, which contributes to reducing that poverty. As has been said, the number of recipients of income guarantee income has increased, especially in busy recipients. Therefore, ensuring access to quality employment is necessary to avoid situations of poverty and to avoid chronification in the receipt of benefits that have been conceived and have always been conceived as temporary. In this sense, the ESC itself warns of this chronisation, and it affects the relevance of active employment policies for access to the labour market and the achievement of social welfare. And above all here we have to focus on certain groups that are more affected than others. We have outlined earlier the factors that influence this index of labour poverty. Reducing or eliminating such risk factors must be the objective, and that is the objective to be pursued by the Basque Government. Mr Toña, when he answered the question that this motion brought here today, asked us to have the magic wand, so let us say it. Obviously, we don't have it. No one has a magic wand. And we also recognize that the situation is complicated, but we have to work on it. One cannot lower one's arms, although it seems that the Basque Government has done so. The Basque Government has in its hand powers and instruments to be able to work towards these objectives. It has the competence of active employment policies, and it has the Lanbide instrument. For a long time active employment policies were demanded; for a long time it seemed that when these active policies were put in place everything would change, which were the panacea to achieve an absolutely different employment situation from that of the rest of Spain. But the question is not one of having the powers; the question is one of managing and exercising those powers. And on labour issues, as on other issues, that myth of good management of the Basque Nationalist Party goes down one day every day. Intermediation rates are really low. Lanbide is not an instrument that achieves job integration, and a test of that – although it has already been said here, I want to repeat it – are the words of the Vice-Advisor of Employment and Labour: "My children are not even able to look for work in Lanbide". And behind those words is an express recognition of the failure of Lanbide's active policies. They are not meeting the goal they should have, which is to achieve active inclusion. And in that it is necessary to work, in that active inclusion, through the creation of synergies; transcending from that simple sum of employment policies plus social policies, abound in the coordination of all levels of government, and achieve the exit of income-guarantee earners to the world of work. But it looks like you're not working on it and Lanbide isn't working. And it is that the data are there: it is not working either in the work intermediation or in the management of income guarantee income. It is worth saying here, from the Group of the European People's Party, that we believe that there must be a social protection system, that there must be a guarantee system that means that citizens who are in economic difficulties, who do not have other resources, can have the resources to live in dignity. But it is also true that, although certain groups are going to be recipients of income guarantee income because they are not going to be able to enter the labour market, yet other groups are going to be able to do so. And for these groups it is precisely for those who sign the insertion agreements, because that group is aimed at leaving the social aid system. And what Lanbide isn't doing is just that, getting that group out of the labour market. If you are guaranteeing that economic benefit, and from here we want you to continue to be guaranteed that economic benefit, but you are not achieving the second objective of that benefit, which is to get them out into the labour market. And it is necessary, therefore, that the collectors be improved their employability, that they be allowed their work activation; that they be allowed, as I say, to return to the world of work. And for this they are fundamental personalized paths to employment or to more stable and better-quality jobs, which reduce or even eliminate the risks of job poverty. Because, as I said at first, labour poverty is an endemic evil in our society. We recognize, Mr Councillor, that the solution to this problem is not simple, and that it affects more areas than Lanbide; that training is essential to alleviate the situation, but that we also have to work with the employment-generating areas. It must be borne in mind that working against labour poverty entails creating the conditions for the labour market to be dynamic, so that stable and high-quality jobs can be created in the labour market. That we must drive a larger and more competitive business fabric; competitive in terms of research and value added. Innovative companies where more trained workers are involved. We need to boost entrepreneurship. We must empower companies to come to Euskadi, and those who are not to leave. Only through the joint work of all the areas of this Government will we be able to create that just economic and labour fabric, and it is an obligation to lay the groundwork for it and that is what we believe the Basque Government must do. And also, of course, collaborate with companies and non-profit and social economy entities. That is what we are trying to capture in our amendment, which I believe has been contained in that compromise amendment. And I too would like to thank the other groups for their willingness to sign it. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u48	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u49	Yes, thank you, President. It seemed very correct to us the initiative put forward by the Socialist Group, we made a contribution through an addendum amendment, it was incorporated into the transactional, and this transactional has finally been signed by practically all the groups in this House except EH Bildu, and we will therefore vote in favour of this transactional. I will not repeat the many things that have already been said. The situation that all groups want to correct has been described. I am not going to repeat the data that have been given, but the situation we are in is clear. There has indeed been talk of labour poverty, the precarious jobs that continue to exist in Euskadi, the increase in inequality, low wages, the situation of vulnerability suffered by thousands of people, and the deterioration of working conditions. We have therefore described the reality as we see it, as it is in substance and in reality, and before that what we propose are a number of solutions put forward in that compromise amendment, and some other solutions that the different groups have put forward from the rostrum. We do not have magic wands, Mr. Counsellor, but we are willing to continue working for Basques and Basques. I think that is the biggest difference between you and some of the Members of this House. It is not enough to blame Madrid, it is not enough to describe reality, it is not enough for you to point out what the Government has been doing over the past few years. It has to take the initiative, it has to put forward new ideas, new proposals. You have to be lively, you have to be able to convey to Basque society that you and your Government are able to turn the situation around. But I find you... I find you, counselor, low morale. I'm worried. Mr Lehendakari, you have a cabizba, sad, pessimistic, depressed and – which is more serious, because it affects us – depressing. And, said that, really, with all due respect, because I think he's a counselor who's a sincere person and who's telling the truth, but that's not enough to devote himself to politics. Being an advisor to a whole Basque Government is a very important thing. We need people who are willing to work, we need people who are lively, optimistic, positive, who make proposals, who say "let's get back to the situation". Not to tell us how bad we are, but to take the initiative. Mr Lehendakari, you have to encourage your adviser; you have to try to make an effort, perhaps a common therapy at the next Governing Council, to tell the adviser that he and all those who accompany him are able to do something more for Basques and Basques. Because you read the transcript of your interpellation and, because you are strong and are already used to adverse situations, but, if not, you would be depressed. And certainly, when you read what you raised in that inquiry, look at what you said: "Whoever has solutions, bring them in. In this world of allocated competitiveness, radical technologicalisation, process automation, employment will fall." And that's what the Employment Advisor tells us. "The data from the last quarter indicate that we have 8,700 more occupied, fortunately, and yet 25,000 fewer unemployed. If anyone has a magic wand, please show it to us," you said. You said: "It is not easy to deal with a situation that particularly affects the younger generation or generations, women with a desire for emancipation." You said that 3.2% of households with employed persons have at some point acceded to some social protection during the twelve months before. "Unfortunate, bad," you said. He described the reality to us, and he also pointed out that you are not able to turn the situation around. He said that in the case of households with an unstable population, access to the protection system is much higher, 15.2 %, in 2014, which clearly exceeds 10.8 % in 2006. And you said, "We're wrong." He also added that poverty has increased as a result of the crisis, saying: "We do what we can. The signs of the times are sometimes the ones they are. We can't change the world. Euskadi is too small for us to be able to change the global behavior that affects us so brutally, especially the most vulnerable sectors." All this was said by you in that interpellation. "The most precarious forms, in terms of temporary and low-paid recruitment, are likely to increase," you said, "by "translating into greater demand for access to the system." You have to be encouraged, counselor. You have to be more optimistic, more capable. You're capable of that and too much. He has to be willing, not to describe the reality. I just want to say that we cannot have a counsellor on matters as sensitive as employment and social policies, Mr Lehendakari, exclusively to describe the reality and point out some decisions made by your Government, or to blame Madrid. Dan shows, as he said, not only of pessimism, but of incapacity and impotence. His lack of grip and ideas, in short, worries us. We're very worried. We do not ask for miracles, although it may be thought that it is a miracle for this Government to fulfil any of the parliamentary mandates. We do not ask you to change the world, but to change your attitude and yourself; to take the initiative, to propose measures, to use the powers that you have, to activate Lanbide, to fulfil parliamentary mandates, to implement this global strategy that is called for through this transactional and that has already been requested a few months ago. Anyway, all this is what we ask of you. Change your attitude, not just to say the things that are very bad, to say that "we do what we can". You are a member of an entire Basque government, you are important in that government, and therefore you have to put forward measures and solutions for the benefit of Basque society. Mr. Lehendakari, you have to get you to encourage this counselor. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg. Your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u51	Yes, thank you, Chief of Parliament. Presidents, chiefs, members of the legislature, good noon to all. Alderdi Sozialistaren lan-pobreziaren aurka borrokatzeko euskal strategicari buruzko mozioa dugu eztabaidagai, éta haren inguruan hitz egingo dugu, éta ez terarerik behar duen salbururen batek edo besteren batek... animatzera. Badakizu, advice I see I don't have for myself. I was thinking that you could be speaking at some UPyD congress rather than addressing any advisor to this Basque government. Therefore, returning to the subject, we must first say that, as we have said elsewhere, we do not like to have an adjective for poverty. That's what we agree with you, Mrs. Zulaika. The serious state of men in a state of poverty is to be considered as a whole, in order to give a general answer. And in our opinion, if we place adjectives to poverty, the steps which must be taken to avoid this difficult situation are diminished. It is true, Miss Sarasa, that the Chief Toñan has often said that in this changing world there is a great paradox happening, and that other representatives have also said that there is no guarantee of employment at present in all cases of inclusive society. Unfortunately, some facts indicate that way. But it is also true that there are multiple reports with data on poverty, including some on labour poverty, and that data must be studied and evaluated in a calm and objective manner, without partial interpretations or interest, or the result of specific circumstances. Situations of real poverty cannot be mixed with situations of risk. To assess and know the reliability of the data it is necessary to report on the measurement method. It is not the same to use one method as another, one assessment as another. It is not the same as being in extreme poverty as being at risk. The evaluation of the data must be done rigorously. We do not share with you, Mrs Sarasua, the conclusions you made on the day of the inquiry and which you have brought back here today. He did not seem to be pleased that the unemployment data had improved, although he had said that it was good for him, because he questioned them, questioned them, claiming that the number of recipients of GIR had also increased, and used that argument as a justification for his motion. Of course, it seems to us at least unscrupulous. I will remind you, as Mrs Llanos also did, that the concept of labour poverty is not new, it has not emerged now. Nor only in Euskadi, nor much less. Because in the state when labor poverty grew the most it was in the period 2007-2012, and was ruling precisely the Socialist Party, with Rodriguez Zapatero at the head. The 2014 survey on demand for social services, which you also mentioned and which, as you know, is carried out every two years, included – and you said so – a specific section on the impact of labour poverty in Euskadi, and I am going to give you some data that emerges from it. A very striking feature of the population in households with occupied persons in Euskadi is that there is no significant increase in the relative impact of forms of real poverty (between households with occupied persons), compared with 2008 and 2014 data. In absolute terms, the volume of people living in real poverty in households with an occupied person's presence fell to 40,138, the lowest since 1996. In relative terms, real poverty fell sharply between 1996 and 2000, reaching a new minimum in 2014, with 2.5%. So far, data on real poverty, which disassembly the claim on which they base their motion: the existence of labour poverty due to the increase in RGI applicants, despite the decrease in the number of unemployed, of unemployed people. With regard to the risk of poverty, which, as you are well aware, differs from the situation of real poverty, it is true, as also pointed out by some other spokesperson, which varies greatly depending on the presence or not in the home of a person with a stable occupation. In relative terms, in the population in households of unsteady employed persons in the company represents an improvement in the most recent evolution, at 12.7%, having improved compared to the indicators of 2008, where the index was 14.7%, and 2012, where it was 17.3% (five points below in 2014 compared to 2012). Data that makes us think that we are going the right way, without entering or falling into any complacency, because obviously among all we will have to improve them. The most striking element is to see that in the different groups of households with an occupied population (I insist, with an occupied population) the lowest proportion of poverty perception in the period 2004-2014 corresponds to 2014. Obviously, post-crisis conditions have a significant impact on the occupied population, but tend to be more linked to the difficulties of maintaining welfare status than to a significant fall in poverty or other forms of absence of real well-being. Most of the people affected are marginalized from situations of poverty and lack of well-being. Most live in conditions in which well-being predominates, mated, however, by significant risks to maintain that well-being situation. Another important feature is the loss of importance of all households with an occupied population among the population benefiting from the GIR system. It is important to highlight the importance of the income guarantee system, which is a major planning tool to address labour poverty. Incentives for employment are a strong support for job insecurity and, therefore, for job poverty. On the other hand, it is surprising that the Basque Government is being asked to draw up a strategy for labour poverty, when almost the entire legislature has passed by criticizing the Government for the profusion of plans it has devised and implemented, claiming that they serve little or nothing. But you've said it's time to go through words again and again, and now, when the law's about to end, I'm sure it's time for you to ask me to make a strategy or a general plan about it. Askotan esan dugu lan-poverzia – edo poverzia, bere osotasunean – ez de la amaitzen Gobernuak plan bat edo strategy orokor bat gehiago edo gutxiago egiteagatik. Horrela izango balitz, dudarik ez izan, aurkeztuta egongo zirela plan horiek. And if it were a question of passing laws, plans or strategies to end poverty, I am sure that all governments would have their own law, their own plan, and there would be no poverty, no jobs, no energy, no kind of anywhere in the world. The Government has devoted itself to establishing the appropriate conditions that will give stability to the country in order to promote economic recovery and to generate employment, quality employment. That is the real fight against poverty: poverty without surnames or adjectives. That's right, as you can see all the teams need a strategy, it's just the Red Beetle's ready to prepare a strategy around the industry, so we're halfway together with the Social Party, the Socialist Party, the Popular and the UPyD. I'm not going to read all the points because Mrs. Sarasu herself has read them, and also because she's even shared them. Just a nuance on the first point, to finish. It is important to make it clear that the Government is working, taking measures to prevent poverty, using all the means at its disposal, such as the active employment policies and the social protection system itself that we have. The data shows that. And have no doubt that the government led by the lehendakari Urkullu, with the help of all the other actors involved and also with yours, will continue to work for no one in this country to be in poverty. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u52	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Passing on the answers, Miss Sarasa, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u53	Thanks again. Before I say some things I want to refer to a writing that I read the other day and that I liked: "Between what I think, what I mean, what I think I say, what I say, what you want to hear, what you think you understand, what you want to understand and what you understand, there are nine possibilities of not understanding us." I understand that our group is of course clear on what we think and feel about this issue, and that is why we have produced a clear message. And with this I would like to reply to Mrs Zulaika that, well, of course, we have many issues on this subject, on the subject of labour poverty, but I do want to make it clear that we Basque Socialists do not talk about subsidising people in the labour market at any time. We are talking precisely about getting these decent and quality jobs, and of course saying in this Parliament that the Basque Government has to give Lanbide another direction, because they are responsible for that, and this is not always about blaming others. We also sometimes have to look inside and reflect on what kind of policies are being implemented, or what kind of measures are being put in place, and make an assessment of whether they are working or not, because that is what every government has to do. That's right. And, well, you've given data, the rest of the groups have given data, and everyone can interpret the data, but here it's clear that everyone talks about labor poverty. And of course we share with you that it is of no use to look at the unemployment rate, whether it rises or falls. It is true that what is happening must be interpreted, and what is happening is what kind of work or employment is being created and, of course, the profile of the people concerned, who are suffering the consequences, indeed, of these precarious new jobs and their effects on their family environment. And this also influences – and I say this to all groups – a terrible problem that we are going to have to talk about, which is the future generation, the replacement rate, the aging rate, the birth rate... because a country is not built without that. We can create many things and many variables, and many items, and talk about many surveys and many studies, but we have (here is the Health Advisor)..., we have an aging, terribly aging population, difficult prospects for the future with the theme of the elderly and the chronification of diseases, we have a terrible problem with birth, which we will have to put on the table already and talk about that topic, because that is a replacement rate and that in the future is the maintenance of the system. And, therefore, labour poverty is also related to all that, because, the better the jobs, the better the families will be and many more incentives to birth will exist. And also in this we have a lot to see women, which I think right now we are generating a lot of responsibility in all of this. And we are putting a lot on our side right now to Basque society, because we are also working and sacrificing our lives, trying to share responsibility with our partners so that we can have our elders at home, in their best conditions. And I take this opportunity to say it because it seemed very important to me. To the People's Party, then, well, obviously thank you for the good predisposition, and of course I have nothing to say to you. And the Basque Nationalist Party, Mrs Arregi, knows perfectly well that we have reached an agreement. We believe that this is a sufficiently important issue, and if you do not like to put adjectives to poverty, then, well, if you want to talk about job dignity, labor rights, job fraud... I believe that adjectives must sometimes be put, because unfortunately there are nouns, there are adjectives, and there is labour poverty. And of course we have not questioned the data; we have done another reading, and I have explained it here. And that reading exists, and I think that has to be a reflection to give a twist to what's going on in Lanbide. And we are not going to see that the problem is only the Spanish state. Of course, labour reform has brought us here, and that is the result of many things, but we are competent in our matters, and if Euskadi is very small, because obviously with the competition we have and those we want to bring we will have to work, we will have to prove that we are great. For our part nothing more, and eskerrik asko to all groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u54	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Mrs. Zulaika, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u55	Thanks again. Well, now on this turn I will take the opportunity to explain a little bit what our position is on the amendment that has been signed, as we see that once again our proposal will come out with another door today. Well, this time you won't even get to vote, I think, because there's an amendment fucked with the rest of the groups. So, I'm going to explain a little bit what our position is. We would, of course, ask from EH Bildu, if possible, to vote on points. On the first point, we are not going to focus so much on terminology, or on whether it has to be "labour poverty" or "labour precariousness", which is how we understand it, and the pursuit of dignity through employment. It seems to us that this strategy is late and that there is no deadline or anything and it can be kept short, although we see positive that it is done together with the different social agents and trade unions, we collect those proposals approved in the full monograph... Therefore, on that point, although it seems to be late and it is declaratory that the legislature is exhausted, we would vote in favour. On the next point, in short, we also agree. We believe that within Lanbide there is much to be done; that the primary objective, which is mediation, orientation, prospecting, is not being carried out as it should be, because it is true that the management of GIR is eating them, and taking steps in that direction also seems to us to be positive. Then, well, on that point we would vote in favour. We are against, however, point 3 and point 4. From point 3 because, as we have discussed quite a lot in this Parliament, we have shown that some of the programmes that have been put in place do not guarantee decent employment, do not guarantee quality employment, many programmes that have been subsidized with public money. Therefore, asking the Government to continue with all these programmes does not seem consistent to us. And with regard to point 4, I would like to make it clear that I think it is a result of a proposal from the Group of the European People's Party, and I think that in the initial proposal..., I don't know, I think it has been a whole set of all, but in the initial proposal at least from the Group of the European People's Party I did emphasize making that collaboration from the Basque Government (well, it is true that you have then added "by Lanbide" and so on) with insertion companies, social economy, non-profit companies... We thought it was better, because, of course, to us from EH Bildu what gives us great fear is that the door will be opened to outsource more services from a Basque public employment service that would have to be a reference service in employment mediation, a public and strong service. And, well, coming to terms with any legal person, public or private, just, it seems... Or at least we're really scared. Then, on that point, we would vote against. And I repeat a little what we said at the beginning. I think that... I wish we were wrong, but I think that, without really having behind us an economic, budgetary, powerful commitment to take action from now on, measures that could be done to deal with the serious situation in which we are, well, we believe that it will remain in a mere declaration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u56	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u57	Thank you again, Madam President. Well, in relation to the amendment tabled by EH Bildu, I really did not refer to it because – you said so yourself, Mrs Zulaika, in your first speech – it is a repetition of an initiative that was brought here, which I believe we have all put forward here at the time. So, to repeat that debate, I don't think it made any sense. And the truth is that I was not going to intervene on this second point, and, without wishing to break the good line that has been achieved by being able to arrive at a compromise amendment, which we hope is not a declaration, but rather something about what the Basque Government is going to work on afterwards... Because this amendment seeks above all to say that the appropriate instruments are in place, that the Basque Government has the instruments, that it has the Lanbide instrument, that it has the competences, that it has the powers of active policies, and that what needs to be done is to use them, and to use them well, to lower those poverty rates. That, as I say, they haven't come up now, and that's true. That is, they have not emerged now, they are neither of this Government, nor of this Basque Government, nor of the Government of the People's Party. Because here, Mrs. Sarasua, you've finally let it slide like... He says, "Let's not blame others," but he's already wanted to slide that it's labor reform. And it's not like that. Here I have an article in which it says: "Poverty increases in Spain among people with work". But it is that the data he gives is from 2007 to 2010, when he ruled the Keynes de Valladolid, Mr Zapatero, who learned economy in two afternoons. And labor poverty, the one that you now want to put on that adjective... It seems good to me to have the adjective, but it is that it does not appear on Mr Zapatero's 2011 electoral programme. But neither now, eh! Neither now. Nor in the program you were running in Spain were you talking about job poverty. And, moreover, at the time of the greatest impact of the crisis, a plan for social inclusion is not activated. The last plan that was made was that of 2008-2010, and it has to be the Government of the People's Party that, when it arrives, following the Europe 2020 strategy, draws up the National Plan of Action for Social Inclusion 2013-2016, on the premise of the need to advance in the defense of the welfare state, to ensure sustainability and, above all, to ensure, it is true, stable and quality jobs. But we must also say where we came from, and we came from an absolute destruction of employment thanks to the brilliant management, as I say, of Mr Zapatero, that president who said that the crisis was not a fallacy, but that it was pure catastrophe (in January 2008); that in 2007 he said that we were in the league champions of the economy, that the 130,000 were not stopped, but people who were aiming at unemployment (that is, in February 2008), and that Spain was completely safe from the financial crisis, or that it was lying like a beaucoque that said that it had made cuts. And I understand that things look very different when you're in the government than when you're in the opposition. When Mr Zapatero ruled, who left the country as he left, the socialists repeated in unison "We are the eighth world power, the envy of Europe, and soon we will overcome France, as we have already done in Italy". And where were we when Zapatero left! On the other hand, when it governs the People's Party, with the figures given by Europe, which we are the first in economic recovery, however, everything is catastrophic, despite, as I say, having taken Spain out of the stumbling block in which it was. Issues of perspective. But, as I say, I believe that we have come to an amendment, and we are asking for it, and we are confident that the Government will receive it, it is not a declaration, but precisely a step further to put in place the instrument and the competences we have to achieve higher quality jobs, more stable jobs, and the reduction of labour poverty rates. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u58	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mistto-UPyD shouldn't speak a word... Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Arreg, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u59	Yes, thank you again, Mr. President. Dignified wages, more employment, more contributions, have now been said and have also been commented on by several spokespersons at the first point of today's plenary debate. And we agree, but let us remember and talk about the data in its entirety also in this case, because Euskadi is the autonomous community where wages are highest and unemployment rates are lowest. Therefore, that apathy, that negative character, of having thrown out the towel, etc., which was stuck to the Sailburu, to the Employment Advisor, I think they are out of place, because the data show exactly the opposite. The Government is working, taking action, and the data reflect this. And these are objective data, which, if interpreted as interpreted, are there. And on the Lanbide issue, we agree that Lanbide management needs to be improved. We do not want to fall into self-congratulations, as I said in my first speech, but we also need to be fair, and we need to say all things as they are. And labour intermediation in Lanbide reaches a three-and-a-half percent, it's one of the highest in Europe, and it's very at the head of the rest of the state's public employment services. And I don't hear this from any of the speakers who talk about Lanbide. They always talk about how bad Lanbide is, that nothing is done and so on. I think we have to be fair, and Lanbide has improved. And it is true that we will have to keep improving, but the rate of intermediation is three and a peak percent. Go, look where they find better brokerage rates. And, to conclude, then, of course, you also have to know where it came from... True, the transfer of active employment policies was achieved, it was linked that the best way to get people out of exclusion was with employment, and that is why it was also decided that Lanbide would manage the GIR and the CVP. At that time, and realizing that it was reasonable what was being proposed, it was said: "But do it at a later stage, because active employment policies are already going to entail many adjustments and it will be difficult to put everything into practice at the same time." But Councilwoman Zabaleta refused, refused and refused, and said that everything had to be done at once. Everything was done at the same time, that way. And those dusts, these muds. But Lanbide's situation is improving, the data backs it up, and it will continue to improve. And for that, of course, we need the help of everyone and everyone. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. We're going to vote for the middle-term correction. No points requested. Someone's got a problem voting at points... ? Okay. Then we vote first and second points first and then second and third. First and second points. Basque Socialists, Mists, Euskal Populars, and Eubertists, will vote for the first and second point of correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u61	The first and second points have been unanimously accepted. Next, we vote for the third and fourth points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters of 53; contraries; 21; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u62	Thus the third and fourth points have been accepted. The fourth point of the theme list. "Motion, introduced by the members of the EHGG of the Belsen Rockores, to interrupt Lomce's app in the plans of the Government of Urkullu. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Arrido has her word to introduce and take off her initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u63	Thank you. Good morning. Lomce's application is the result of the interpenetration made in the whole meeting of April 22, to the Chief of Education. In the interpelation mentioned, besides the modern education system, we asked the chief physician a number of questions, demands, and proposals, to face Lomce and protect our educational system. We have to say that the answer received was truly involuntary and inadequate. And that's why we introduced this motion. In short, what I said to the head physician, Lomce is the greatest attack on education during the past few years, no doubt. Because the other is a law that does not respond to the exigencies of our education and our centralist and our educational system. And thus even this legislature has expressed it. He has also given roundness to Araba, Bizchai, and Gipuzian educational companies, as well as to the builders. And they've insisted on the need to face Lomce and the commitment to...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u64	Please be quiet, please. Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u65	The Board of Education, the New Education, is developing 2020 plans, the curriculum data is also located in that development, but we want to repeat that it's the tools to apply Louzian and Gipuzian Lomce. Most of the educational doctors don't agree with the Board of Education. They don't agree with the resumes of Hecituum, or with the other decisions they're making. Here, as an example, is the description given by 100% of the unions that represent each other and the Board of Education. In like manner E.H.H.I.E.G., the students of creation, are the founders of the Platform Education. Whose support does the bureau have? He often tells us that he has the support of educationmakers, but he never lists them. We'd like to know whose protection he's doing everything he's doing and everything he's leaving behind him. In front of this reality, the chief physician once again repeated the whole meeting, and I had no opportunity to replicate anything which is the easiest thing for her, looking away from it, and meeting EH is confused. That's what the chief physician said during the interpelation day in this plune. Does the chief physician really believe that's true? What is clear is this: That the opinions and dispositions of EH are one, and that our opinions and dispositions agree with the opinion of the professors of education; that is true. But what you said here is a perfect lie. We agree with the opinion and attitude given by the teachers of education. Meanwhile, the chairman of the Board of Education, the Board of Education, says one thing and does another. I will make three instances to confirm it: The first, he says, is in harmony with the operators. And, as I said before, that's not true. Maybe someone, I don't know! But not with teachers or workers' representatives, not with parents, and not with those who actually constitute the unit of education. Second, exams. Evaluation system. From the schools, in a great degree, on a great scale, he proposed that this year the series should do what he called Lomce-Hexer in general, but he leaves it to the care of the schools, because he has produced a great burden, and a great anger, because he has brought in the foolish discussions, and, after all, has brought nothing good. I think it's 144 schools that decided today not to do that test. I think he has something to think about and the chief physician ought to think of something about such an answer. It's not enough to say: It's their decision, Ya esta. No, no. But the Board of Education has entered third-level tests into the letter decree. And so every year, every year, every year... We'll have the same thing on the table, because your object is to make these tests, and if they don't, it's because you get it from the schools. It's an active educational unit. It's like that in our schools and really engaged with our own education system, and it's because of it that I've said in the ECUTATER several times, the attacks, multiple attacks, and it's actually being that way. And thirdly, Lomce taking advantage of it and applying it to me, it's been spent six years in the language of private schools. The Council of the 26th of April without discussion, the treaties which had hitherto been made for four years, are now extended in six years. Even more, still. In this case, it went beyond: Lomc puts six years of duration to the first education, and four years to all others. In six years' time the treaty has been decided to continue in every court, though it was not forced, and the matter was not laid upon the table. And knowing that at the present moment there is a subject capable of discussion, and also that there must be a certain number of conditions, measures, agreement about it... And he's done it, he's applied Lomce in this case too. That's why we're saying one thing and another is doing the Board of Education and the Board of Education. We don't know what's going to happen to Lomce in Madrid. At the moment, the procedure to terminate the application calendar in parts where Lomce is not applied has been opened, and this week news has been reported that in the direction of study there will be changes or may still be, with no accuracy. But we said it the other day and I'll repeat it: for what Lomc says is already contained in so many and so many places in the curriculums of the New Hericulum. If, then, they remain firm in force, what determines in the neighbourhood of Lomrice will not be here, if the curriculums do not change, if they do not cease to exist, and again, with the intervention of them, with transparency, to promote the trade, as has not been so far as it has been done, if the matter has not come to any seriously. Why? Well, it's obvious: Tests are planned on curriculum tests in the First Education. Level 4, in DBH Level 2, 4. Level two of high school. I don't know what kind of test we can put almost every year on. Therefore I say that if it were to change in Madrid at the best, if we do not change the rule here, we have already received it in a decree, and we think we have a serious problem. And we're serious because the evaluation systems, for example, when we're talking about everything I've been talking about... We all know that evaluation systems condition the whole education. And if we keep our exams at the third grade, number two, six, and so on, education and everydayity will sink into our schools to do what we have to do to prepare them. And such evaluation systems affect methodology and all things. So we think it's a matter of deep discussion. We think we ought to put our own evaluation system into action, but we have to do it with consent, not with the chance that Lomce is coming... Now we add what we wish, whether well or ill, and also what Lomc also receives, and we make a system of education incomprehensible and entirely logical from our point of view. That's what we plan on our motion. We plan to make a few decisions about what I picked up here. And we've agreed to a middle course with the Social Party, the one who gets all this from our point of view. He would also like to have other specifications, but we agree with what he agreed to. Why? First, because we're asking Lomce to be actively confronted by the Spanish state, not just by words, but actively. As we ask him, too, to open the way with all the political, social, and particularly education-erasing agents, to obtain a wide educational selection, as the public school has not hitherto done, to give up the editors of the novel curriculum, to abandon them, and to leave them, together, without any meaning of evaluation, which has been laid aside.... And this is entirely connected with what I have said: One or two things in Madrid, if the curriculums are not put back on the table, we can do nothing because they are recorded in a decree. And finally, how unhappily it is that, when the educational quality, equity, and inculction of our whole education system is intended, will take the measures to be taken... And making that path with everyone's share, that's what we're asking you to do in the middle of the day. As I have said, we have agreed with the Socialist Party, and I have never seen any chance of doing so on my side, at least at least, from the corrections of other groups, in order to agree about it. In the correction of PNV, the first point was that which we introduced, so that we had no problem. But the problem was in the second. We believe that it is necessary to open a new process with members, to encourage and in a clear manner, and to do so, and to do so, there will be no longer any longer any chance of the performance of the ceruculums which are now in force, and of the entire system of evaluation, and not of preserving what is maintained in this decree. And that's the reason why there was something else to agree about.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Passing over the teams that are running the corrections, the Basque Socialists, Mrs. Celá, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u67	Egun where you're going. Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor, Counsellor. I would like to begin, on behalf of my group, by expressing my solidarity with the Basque public university, Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea, and by condemning the attacks it is suffering, in the name of ideas, precisely the centre of ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, for four hundred years Protestant pastors were teaching the Finns to read, but we were in other battles. Today, ladies and gentlemen, an average teenager from Finland finishes high school with good grades, has never repeated, speaks English perfectly, and reads a book a week. A Basque student – and the Basque education system have some good indicators – has more than 30% chance of having repeated their courses, their English proficiency does not reach B1 in the European reference framework, and, according to PISA, more than 43% of the Basque 15-year-old student never reads for pleasure. And that which PISA plainly affirms that the relationship of reading that a student makes is much more important for his intellectual development than the relationship that may exist between the student's knowledge and his socio-economic level. We are in other battles, ladies and gentlemen, and we continue to be in other battles, while the world is competing for knowledge, and while learning is the indispensable tool for the development not only of the individual, but of the collective. But we are in other battles, as I say, because, in front of the Lomce, forced by the Lomce, instead of innovating the application for the least possible damage, we screw ourselves, screw it with a tool, the curriculum development Heziberri, which is nothing but the application to the Lomce Community. In addition to a completely unexplored pedagogy, completely uninvestigated, which, being useful for a group such as the group of ikastolas in this community, does not have to be for the entire Basque educational system as a whole. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we have rejected Heziberri from the outset. In Heziberri, in his birth, exactly the same defects that compete in the Lomce: unexpectedly, unexplored, without starting from any diagnostic evaluation, we find ourselves with a curriculum development not requested by anyone, that arises precisely from a bureaucratic, administrative impulse, of the government's own educational system, and that comes to put on the table a pedagogy of the Catholic University of Louvain, which does not even apply in Belgium. I'll stay there for now. Heziberri, ladies and gentlemen, it's no use. Heziberri introduces a system of evaluation that is frankly impractical. It's just impractical! It's already starting to separate and divide the primary into two... third and sixth. On the pretext of not doing what Lomce says, she says, "Let's do what Heziberri says." Hey, what does Heziberri say? No, the same as Lomce! We have to evaluate in third, and we have to evaluate in sixth. Ladies and gentlemen, the three-year stages, except in the Montessori methodology for early childhood education, are not applicable in the rest of the system. They are not generally applicable. But much less applicable are evaluations before the age of ten. There is no educational system, more than the rare, extravagant, that evaluates at the age of nine. But here, look at what some means of communication say: "This is how the nine-year revalidation will be," says on February 16, 2016, a means of communication that only affects the Basque Autonomous Community. He says, "That's how she'll be the nine-year-old," listen. Nine years old! When everyone knows that at the age of nine an evaluation can never be a reference of a child's knowledge, much less in a bilingual educational system that, like the Basque, has a great philological distance between the two languages in which he teaches. And much less so in an educational system which, like Basque, has not only a great philological distance between the two languages, but a different establishment and implementation, a huge diglossy between the two languages in which he teaches, and whose only 24% comes from an entirely Basque-speaking habitat. But this will be the case at the age of nine. Look, ladies and gentlemen, it's not worth saying "gure markoa Heziberri da, guk erabakiko dugu gure ebaluazioa nola éta noiz egin". But, of course, when we're going to meet with the evaluations, it turns out they're all there. As a fourth and a second can't be removed because they were ours and, finally, it was where we had a seven-year sequence, where we had made an intellectual relationship of how it was evolving, because they also put the third, the sixth of Primary, of course, because now they say it's not going to be done, but the educational centers were told that it would be done, the evaluations, such (It says: "What centers will be done? It is proposed for the next course, and it will be done in all the primary centers", it is now said that it is not done in the primary centers), but we also have the evaluation of the secondary room, which is the one that puts the Lomce, and that of the second of the baccalaureate. That is to say, ladies and gentlemen, when the Lomce is being dismantled piece by piece as if it were a mechanic, by the same ones who mounted it, we are still well screwed here with Heziberri. The question is coherent, the question is logical: what will happen when the Lomce is repealed, when the Lomce disappears from the stage?, what will happen to us? What's going to happen to Heziberri? Will Heziberri remain? Is Heziberri leaving? Then why don't we get ahead of ourselves? Why not remove Heziberri? Heziberri has not been agreed, Heziberri has not been agreed. Yesterday we finally knew that it also does not seem that the Confederation of Ikastolas is very much with Heziberri. So, who's holding it? Who's holding it? Who's holding Heziberri? What use does Heziberri have? What's the use of it? Which one? Why? For what? For what, if you don't even develop the skills in which there is consensus today. I mean, digital skills and language knowledge are two skills..., today the media is back to the consensus that they are the skills that must be put in the backpack of all workers. There he leaves himself in a laissez faire and... whoever he wants him to do and whoever he doesn't do... Before we had Eskola 2.0, now it should be 4.0, but it was for everyone, for everyone and for everyone. Now only Sare Hezkuntza, a group, mature ones. Before we had a trilingualism that advanced, with difficulties but ex aequo, for all, public, concerted; with difficulties, with evaluation. With difficulties, with evaluation. Now what do we have? A trilingualism..., mostly trilingualism, plurilingualism, that the concerted one carries it wind in stern (60,000 students), but the public one does not. Not the public! Of course, it's just that the public's problems, ladies and gentlemen... The problems of the public...! And there are still those who are surprised that there are strategic plans or that strategic plans are being demanded for the public. Because yesterday we had a good public session too! Of course, when people lack elementary, they lack classrooms, they lack desks, they lack laboratories, and what about sports equipment, sports spaces... Yeah, yeah, we had that yesterday! Don't look at me, Mrs. Berriozabal, we had that yesterday. The thing is, of course. But that also exists in our public education, so we have to make strategic plans, to be able to move it. Because there will be no quality, there will be no inclusion, there will be no excellence if the educational system does not actually look to those who are a little worse. And in public school there are exceptional professionals and there are leading public centers, but there are others to be helped greatly. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, withdraw what is not worth. Remove Heziberri, who doesn't want it anyone (I don't know if anyone wants it, but tell us), withdraw these impracticable assessments, and let's make a school pact. We will make a new pact, because the school pact of 92 gave results, gave the Law of the Public School as a result, and the Law of Teaching Bodies as a result. If we want to go to a normative development, if we want to go to an education law...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u68	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u69	Yeah. ... We have to make a big deal, and a big deal that comes from a diagnosis, a shared diagnosis. And I have told you, ladies and gentlemen, that it is much more that unites us than separates us. Let's make that diagnosis and make a law that places public school at the center of the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Missta-UPyD, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u71	Yes, thank you, President. The compromise amendment signed by EH Bildu and the Socialist Group basically calls for four things from the Basque Government, or for this Parliament to ask for four things from the Basque Government. On the one hand, to deal actively and with all the resources available to Lomce; to place the school as the reference system; to withdraw the autonomous curricular developments of Lomce, Heziberri, and the immediate suspension of its unheard-of system of assessments, and to move forward with the achievement of quantifiable objectives of improvement in terms of equity, inclusion and quality. We can share some of these objectives. We are, of course, in favour of achieving the objectives of equity, inclusion and quality, and we agree that the public school should be the benchmark of the system. We are also against the Wert Act, which, as Mrs Celaá said, is certainly falling apart, and is going to fall further apart in the coming months, almost certainly. And we are also against the Heziberri 2020 Plan and its evaluation system. But, of course, we do not share many other things that arise, and we do not share many things of the substance that has already been defended and that will then be defended by certain political groups. In any case, we also think that the laws, those that we like and those that we dislike, must be complied with, and also the current Wert Law, beyond that certainly everything seems to indicate that it has little future. Since political representation is therefore changing and the electoral arithmetic will be different in the next Congress of Deputies, and the Wert Law will fall and Heziberri will fall – and, if not, at the same time – we prefer to talk about the future, the decisions that should be made as soon as possible, including the repeal of the Wert Law and the adoption of a new education law. It is not enough to criticize what we have, but it is about making new decisions, and some of these decisions that we humbly think should be taken are reflected in our whole amendment. What we propose is to urge the Government of Spain and the political parties represented in the Congress to promote, by mutual agreement and seeking the greatest possible consensus, a pact for education in Spain for the next decades, for the next twenty years, which includes a constitutional reform to ensure that education is the competence of the State and that educational excellence and equal opportunities are guaranteed, and where teaching is an essential element for the educational improvement of pupils. The Spanish educational system does not succeed in making talent flourish (there are many fewer excellent students in our country than in others), school failure is very high, and, although we are not far from the average in the overall results, we are below the position that would correspond to the size of our economy. And that's how we've been for a decade. The problems seem to be quite well located: the quality of teachers must be improved, the number of subjects reduced, the autonomy of the centres strengthened, and evaluation and control processes instituted. These objectives, of course, apply to any political community, and also to the Basque Autonomous Community. Unfortunately, the Wert Law faced these challenges insufficiently and completely renounced to solve the main problem that has, in our opinion, education in Spain, territorial inequality, as well as introducing elements that we also criticize at the time in the Congress of Deputies. In Spain money may not be a problem to get good educational results, but, of course, it is the place of residence. The differences are the same that existed in the 19th century. Spain is scandalously failing to reduce this source of inequality, and the culprit, at least in the past thirty-five years, is the territorial model of the State derived from the 1978 Constitution. Education, the main weapon against social inequality, is a competition completely transferred to the autonomous communities; the result is that we have seventeen educational systems, with the known consequences. And, therefore, in our view, the autonomous state has increased and increased inequality in all that has to do with education. Some autonomous communities are better and others are worse, and this is not corrected, and what it is about is to equal the level above, obviously. We therefore call for the return of the competence of education to the State, more training for teachers, more autonomy for schools, monitoring and evaluation, more attention to primary education, greater recognition for the figure of teachers, and more attractive and early vocational training. This for the whole of Spain, to equalize the educational level from above in each of the autonomous communities. I know that there are differences between the different autonomous communities, I know that some of these things are already being done in Euskadi, but I think we need a global view of the country, and we need to try to implement these measures for all Spanish citizens. This is therefore our political position: that education be the competence of the State, to improve quality for all citizens. What difference would the citizen perceive if education were the competence of the State? The main difference with the current situation would be the curricular content, which would basically be the same throughout Spain regardless of the language of the vehicle. A unified curriculum has a second important advantage: facilitating the mobility of students and teachers throughout the Spanish territory. Currently, the existence of seventeen educational systems and eleven different laws makes a family transfer difficult when there are children of school age. In the Basque Country or Galicia it is already very difficult to choose Spanish as a vehicle language in a public centre for, for example, children coming from other parts of Spain, and in Catalonia it is simply impossible. Even between autonomous communities without official language there are curricular differences that mean barriers to access for children from other autonomous communities. On the other hand, the current lifestyle and the demands of the economy make it very common today for young families with children to change residence for work reasons. Such mobility must be facilitated, and the unification of the school system is certainly one way of doing so. Promoting teacher mobility is also important. It allows to optimize human resources, share experiences and open the mind to the social and cultural reality of other autonomous communities. The only limit for access to a teaching post should be qualification. Of course, for subjects in Basque you must hire teacher who perfectly dominates that language, but there is no reason, there should be no reason to prevent teacher access from other autonomous communities as well as from other countries. We believe that this can be achieved with a single education law for the whole of Spain, which provides for a sufficient percentage of autonomous content and guarantees the choice of the language to be used, with the learning of the co-official language being ignored. It is absurd and unjustifiable, in our view, to work on the one hand in the European Higher Education Area, in order to ensure that any university student can essentially pursue the same career in any country of the European Union, and in Spain the common educational area has been destroyed by the pressure of nationalism and localism. With regard to management, it is better that it remains the competence of the autonomous communities, because it is certain that the autonomous communities, and the municipalities where appropriate, will know much better the educational needs and problems of each community. They must decide where a school opens, how to equip it, how to strengthen their means to deal with local problems, decide whether to invest in certain programmes of their own, etc. But, in our view, the school curriculum is much better than a common law. The same law, therefore, and decentralised management, is what we advocate. A single common education law for a decentralized education system in management, open and quality. Finally, this is our model and this is what we meant to say, beyond criticizing Lomce, beyond criticizing Heziberri. I believe that this should be addressed by the main political parties in the coming months. This is what we ask to be done. We think this is the important thing. This is the task we think we must push forward in the coming times the main political forces: a national pact for education, agreed, for the next two decades, that leaves aside the partisan and sectarian struggles among the main political parties. That education is the competence of the State, and hence special support for public education, secular education, more inclusion, more quality and more equity for all. Critics of Lomce and Heziberri are fine and we share them, but we think it is insufficient, especially in this new political time, where both the Wert Law and the Heziberri 2020 itself are most likely to fall apart gradually in the coming months and times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u73	Thank you, Chief. Congressmen, chief physician, good noon to all. Several subjects have been laid upon the table, not only in initiative and in corrections, but also in this first round. On the one hand, Lomce, or the law, which was intended to improve the quality of education, was one-sided law, and in this sense it is known that the Jelt Party has an opinion of Lomce; We've repeated it in Madrid, here and everywhere it comes to. We have, therefore, a complete and complete disagreement with that law which PPk set up. The Basque Nationalist Party has been and is against Lomce for a number of reasons, but it would mainly highlight three: on the one hand, that it is a law without any consensus and imposed; that it is a law that invades the competences of Euskadi in the field of education, and that it is a law that does not constitute any improvement for the Basque educational system nor is it appropriate to our reality. We said it before the law was passed, and we keep saying it now. The Basque Parliament has already shown its broad willingness to tackle the Lomce a few months ago. In fact, he asked, he urged the Basque Government to put all the necessary resources in order to confront Lomce in an active way, just as the vast majority of this Parliament asked him to do. That was what the parliament demanded, and so we have received at the first point of our correction, as has been said by Mrs. And the reason is clear. This law demanded that it should be so, and the Jelt party of the Eunetans may, without exception, say that it has always been maintained in that position. The same cannot be said of other groups which are represented here. In the same way, Mr. GENDY asked him to continue the process of improving the quality of our education system, in improving his excellence, without delaying in equity, which is always a pivot. In the past few years, M. M.M. has set up a number of initiative to minimize and avoid Lomce's consequences. As for the rest, the appeals introduced in the Constitutional Court are well known. But apart from Lomce's injurious influences, and from minimizing them, our priority must be to construct, develop, and improve the euscal education system. And to look into the future. Unlike the Spanish government, EukoMunk has fixed the target that's connected to our system and to our environment. And in these aims it is the main thing to maintain the quality of euscal education system and to step on the road to achieve excellence. In that sense, I'm sure it's just about 2020 New Year's New Year's project in October 2013. And the amendment and positioning of EH Bildu and the Socialist Party, both in the original initiative, in the Socialist Party amendment, and in that compromise amendment that has made EH Bildu fully assume the position of the Socialist Party, starts from a totally wrong premise. They say they want to push for a broad pact, and ask to withdraw the autonomous curriculum developments of the Lomce, which equate with Heziberri. And I tell you again that Heziberri is not the curriculum development of Lomce. Mrs Celaá and Mrs Arrondo know perfectly well, but they are what they are. Moreover, especially in the case of the Socialist Party, this question is certainly surprising, because the Basque Socialist Group was the parliamentary group which in this Parliament urged the Basque Government to carry out the normative development of the Lomce. It says that the Lomce is applied, that even goes beyond it says Mrs Celaá, that it is screwed. If that is the case, can you explain to me how the Spanish Government has made a request to the Basque Government saying quite the opposite, saying that Decree 236 does not respect what is laid down in the basic state legislation, and requires it to be amended? Can you explain to me how the Lomce can be applied, go beyond the Lomce, and that the Spanish Government comes to make a request for an amendment of the article? It is more than obvious that it is not true that Heziberri is the application of Lomce. Even though you say it over and over, Hezier is not Lomce's app. And more importantly, it's coming from New York. He set off in October, and Lomce was afterwards accepted. And it's not a novel, it's not a purpose in it: it's an instrument, escala is a tool for improving education. A whole project planned at every step and moment, a whole project which aims to accept a law of education, and, it seems, to be the subject of the discussion of yesterday's occurrence, a vast majority may be agreed upon in what is necessary for a law of education. Today you have come to beg for the retreat of the New Testament, and to-day you have come to demand that a great majority have cultivated it, and to abandon the pedagogical model agreed upon. We think it's a rich and valuable document, but you think it must be abandoned today, the pedagogical frame which the agents have wrought. Do you really think that if the work of education has been abandoned, the Basque law will be closer? We think you're wrong. The evaluation is a very important column of education modeling within the New York 2020 planet; the evaluation is a necessary tool for the improvement of the students' results, and the purpose is to make diagnosis. But it is as clear to us as this that we are against the rebellions which the State of Spain intends to establish, because their sole aim is to be a calcide. Evaluation is useful to form a coherent education model, because there is no cohere and complete education model. And because it's a third-rate test and it's not, it's placed inside the model of our third degree of education. Additional evaluation is proposed between the external evaluations made by the department and the internal allegations made by the schools. It's not a test, it's not used to a students. So, since it's not an external appeal, it's in the hands of the school to do these tests and, if you want any help, they'll have the education administration and service support. This is why we wish to convey a message of relief to the whole educational community, especially to the parents and teachers. evaluation is a diagnosis instrument, not to classize according to results and make funnnings. For this reason, Madame Arrido and Mrs. Celaá, we would be grateful to spend less of the time with more responsibilities. For example, that you would have your own education done, and that the representatives of the EH Collectors, but that you only found and placed obstacles to every step in the building of that system; that is, in our opinion, your end. Yesterday, an operator defined the phenomenon that is happening here on the committee much better than I do. Some take part and mix it with the whole. It's a plan to take the whole education. We agree, it's a plan of taking the whole novel, and you take the EH Collect and the PSE, and mix it with the whole, so that you may mix the Basque Society. We want our own education; but, besides willing, we have the right to have a special educational model, for the 16th article of the Gerica State has given us jurisdiction. Thanks to this jurisdiction of education, for many years, amongst institutions, agents, and families, we have developed that jurisdiction. And from this union, we've built an euscal educational system together. And to continue building the system, it takes a basic political and social agreement to prevent instability. We wish to design a stable and quality system of education for the years to come, and by this means we want a law to develop euscal auto-organization, to become a better and better education system, to design and regulate the system as a whole, to specify the rights and duties of one and the other; to regulate the rights and duties of one and the other in equity, equity, and eloquence, to facilitate advancement and advancement to excellence. But we must build all this upon a minimum agreement, which I repeat again, it is not possible for us to succeed from one day to another. PP has not made any correction, but it is clear what our attitude towards PP is, and therefore I shall leave it to itself: We're against Lomce and against PP's attitude. UPyDk was an egyptian buruz hitz du. UPyD talks about an educational pact for twenty years, and today we have heard again that the best thing for everyone is that education is the exclusive competence of the Spanish State, through a constitutional reform. The Basque Nationalist Party totally rejects this approach. We have always been in favour of building the broadest possible educational consensus for stability. We have always been in favour of building consensus to agree on a new education law that will put the Lomce out of effect, and, in that sense, the third point of the amendment to the whole that we have tabled. We are even confident that the next few months will finally provide the best conditions for us to be able to address that debate in Congress. We are fully prepared for dialogue. However, if in the education pact that some promote, beyond Mr Maneiro and Mr UPyD, someone tries to violate the competences that belong to us or to give education competence exclusively to the Spanish Government, he will find us in front of him. For this reason we believe that there has been a chance to continue to develop our educational system, because if the law of education is the end we all want, we ought to meet with all of them, this legislature and this legislature, at least the threshold for a minimum agreement. I'm sure if we're still doing the same side of the high school system, if we're still doing our best for Euskade's prosperous future... That we'll see the positive results. Hence everyone who is opposed to Lomce, who has a pretended will to agree with the new law, who pretends to build his own education system, and who believes in the law of education, ought to vote for our correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u74	Thank you, Mrs. News. Passing over the uncorrected teams, representative of the Basque Potula team, Mr Oyalun, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u75	Thank you very much, Madam President. The People's Party has not tabled an amendment, because we do believe that it is time to change this manic, repeated and old speech that tries to attack Lomce without providing any alternative. Bildu today proposes to us a boycott of the law, to violate the law, to be subsumed to the law; to withdraw not only the law, the Lomce, but to withdraw all the decrees of the Basque Government, the plan of the Basque Government... What comes to the point is that we have become absolutely blank the last four years, that we have left blank the last four years. The Socialist Party joins that position, joins the position of non-compliance with the law, with the arm of those who are talking about state impositions, and who are not only against the Lomce: they are against any national court law, simply because they are against respecting the minimum democratic principles, which I believe is what we must defend here, at least, to open a different stage in the discourse and educational debate. What is the concept of democracy? If I don't like a law, don't I? Look, the People's Party government between 1996 and 2000, even until 2002, listen, implemented LOGSE, and developed it. It was the law in force at that time, a socialist law that we do not share, that we do not vote, that did not agree with us, that we also assumed that it would not have positive results. Listen, but we are used to respecting democracy and complying with the laws. In 2002 we passed a law, which when it was to begin its implementation, in 2004 the Socialists arrived and repealed it. It was repealed, it was not implemented. We continue with socialist laws. They approved the LOE, a reissue of the LOGSE, which two years later produced records of school failure and drop-out, twice as much as the European average. We thought that we could not go on like this, and we presented ourselves to the elections with a very clear programme: reforming the Education Act. And we receive a majority trust from Spanish society, a majority trust from the citizenry, which you, of course, are not willing to respect, because we have to add to what certain platforms tell us on the street. I don't know if you think people when they vote do it from Mars. No, no! The people who vote for the People's Party and who give it parliamentary majority are citizens, with the same rights as those who vote for you. We could have done what the socialists did, repealed the LOE and implemented the quality law of the People's Party, but we didn't, because we understood that what had to be done was to take advantage of that approach of a pact for education that the socialist minister Gabilondo tried to push forward, and we didn't suspend the LOE. We are trying not to liquidate it, but to modify it, to identify the shortcomings and to put on the table measures that could correct them. We incorporated in the Lomce 70% of the educational proposals of that social and political pact for education that Minister Gabilondo promoted, but from the beginning – they did not even wait for the parliamentary debate – the socialists said no, that of course, in no case, even if I said the same thing they proposed two years earlier, they would accept an educational proposal that came from the hands of the PP. Of course, no one in this country has the right to express an opinion, to decide, or to make decisions in relation to education, other than you. Well, that's your approach to reaching consensus. We understood that we could not stand still. Mrs Celaá comes here, gives us an absolutely mediocre assessment of education, tells us how far we are from the countries of central Europe and northern Europe, how much we have to do, ah!, and what she proposes is that we withdraw the whole law, that we withdraw all the decrees here, and that we return to the situation that led us to this situation of failure. Hey, but what's your alternative proposal, besides repealing Lomce? Because you do not make a single approach that is based on technical or pedagogical arguments, not just one. Just proves his sectarianism, what the councilwoman of Castilla-La Mancha, the education councilwoman of Castilla-La Mancha, told us recently: "Hey, in this region education has only one color, the red of socialists." That's the color of education in Castile-La Mancha, and that's how they understand school: putting school at the service of their political strategy, as nationalists do. But I believe that what you, socialists and nationalists have to do here, is to portray yourself, and say whether you are willing to comply with the law or only when it suits you, whether you are going to be engrossed in the law or will comply with it. That's what they have to say, and not look for subterfuges or go to trailer of Bildu's speeches. Because you are drawn, of course, by Bildu's speeches. And you want to point out that, well, you settle for Lomce but you do it your way, but you have to say whether you're going to do the evaluation tests or not. And what's the fear of evaluating? If families want to know what the diagnosis of Basque school is and want to know how their children are! They want us to know, to have a clear diagnosis to be able to improve, and there's no way to improve if we don't have a clear diagnosis and diagnostic assessments. Here the problem is that there is a diagnostic evaluation with nine years, and, instead, with ten is okay? It seems to Mrs. Celaá that with ten she's fine, with nine she's not. Listen, but that's not an argument to stand up for, because you're against it at nine years old but in favour of it at ten, but you're against it at twelve, and at sixteen, and also at eighteen. Hey, you guys are against all the evaluation tests. They only agree with the ten and the fourteen, because they came up with you. Listen, but let's see, we can come to an understanding, to an agreement!, we can fix exactly what the countries of our environment are doing! Look, twenty-four countries in the European Union have put in the evaluation tests that we put in place. And you know perfectly well – and you don't have to demagogy – that the tests that arise in Primary have no effect on the qualification of students, have no academic effects, and they are simply diagnostic tests to know exactly how we are and what we need to improve. I think it's a contradictory speech about Lomce. As I was saying, we believe that we must overcome the debate "Lomce yes-Lomce no". The Government is showing flexibility in implementing it, we have reached out to be able to address a new stage in our country by trying to find a pact for education (one of the groups that have submitted a motion pointed out). We are, of course, open to a pact for education in Spain. We think we should explore agreements... Hey, let's modify, let's seek consensus. But we are part of it, we have to be part of this consensus! We represent many millions of Spaniards! The consensus is not about saying, "Hey, no, it's just that we're going to walk away from the arm..." From whom? from populism this communist cut that what he poses for education is to close the concerted schools? That is what the socialists have to tell us, that is what they have to tell us, if their educational model for the next few years is to be built on the arm of those who want to close the concerted schools, for example. Look, that's what they have to tell us, not to look for subterfuges to discuss technical aspects of a law that can be put on the table and we can agree. Look, you have to tell us who you want to build educational consensus with in our country. I believe that we are proving that we are open to that dialogue. We have to move forward. We think the education system is better than four years ago... Look, we find a Spanish education system with an early drop-out rate of almost 27%, ladies and gentlemen. Four years ago, almost 27% early abandonment. This year we are at 19,9, Madam President: we have reduced the drop-out and drop-out rate by seven points. But we must keep moving forward. We need to strengthen the role of teachers, regulate the teaching function. We believe that it is necessary to change the system of access of the teacher to the teaching function, designing a true professional career. We are convinced that it is necessary to strengthen their training throughout life, to dignify their functions, also their authority in the centers... And defend families as well. One cannot talk about education without thinking that families want their right to choose, their freedom of choice, their right to choose the education they want for their children and the centre where they want their children to be educated. That freedom which, in our view, really guarantees quality, because it is for the students to whom we must offer this improvement in quality in their training, and equal opportunities. More quality training, which effectively guarantees this equal opportunity. (I'm finishing.) Increased opportunities for new demands. Here are the English, the new technologies... Look, we have to offer those opportunities to young people! And, of course, from the People's Party we do believe in a demanding educational system. But a demanding education system that is also inclusive and inclusive, that leaves no one on the road, and that effectively helps the most in need. But we need, of course, to make a bet that does not veto the views of those we have in front of us. Look, we have to build... if we want to talk about consensus and pact, we will have to do it among all of us, and we will have to do it on the basis of something, not on the basis of lawlessness, because that is not reasonable in democracy. And from the second round, ladies and gentlemen, we will also talk about the assessments and the fear that we will be assessed here in Euskadi.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u76	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing on the answering shift, Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u77	Maybe I'll start with what Mr. Maniro said on the first intervention is the President of theUPyD. The Spanish state, from our point of view, will doubtless require another law, because Lomce is no good to anyone. But we want to make our law, we want to build our education system, which is, in a way, our opinion: a education system that will respond to the needs of this place. And the law of Madrid ought to admit that if another were made or done, this reality and that power were made; here to develop, to build, to build, our educational system. And yet, I believe, I reply to the Poptular party in a certain degree in regard to an opinion of him, or to what he said about us. Mrs. Newori, against Lomce, yes. Yes, of course, how can I not? I think that's where we agree. But we can't stop it, we can't wait to see what's going on in Madrid. We have to develop our tools, and you voted for Lomce's broken application calendar in Madrid, so are we. But what does that mean in us? Because you plan it because no Heziber has anything to do with it. And it's not like that. And I've given you some examples. By what means the evaluation system is being constructed Françoise or settles in our territory? According to this law, in a great degree. The educational conditions of the schools under the treaty are accordingly made, and we may continue to plan so many things. There's a lot of basic things that Lomc plans recently. So, if we run for the Lomce of Madrid, what are we supposed to do here? That's the question. We cannot, therefore, do what is received in education, and we must not, on that account, interrupt it, abandon it? We think so. Because, after all, what's developed from the New Hezier? The curriculum data has been distributed until now. Will this career want consent? Well, we'll say this again. if you do not give us any other data, we will say that he has not enough agreement. And therefore we bring this argument here also, because we believe that it is not really agreed, nor among the agents, nor even in the schools. And if not, I'll tell you again how it is that every day it's going to be a list of schools that are planning on third-rate tests. And this is a small example, only an example. We need a great deal of arrangement, we think, because we really believe that we have a deep and important course in our education system. But in order to obtain an extensive agreement, participation, transparency, and agreeing, is important also. And again we say: we believe that the work has not been done, and that it is not working now. And therefore we plan a law, which is absolutely necessary, but in order to make this course, the procedure which precedes it is also very important. Without that, it will be very difficult to make a law with a consent or a great consent. And there, I'll make another example. And it is not what I say: All the unions said that at the Board of Education you yourself heard, I believe that at this day they are not considered as agents. And therefore they have had a difference only about the New Testament, and have no share in this dispute. And that's very serious for us. We believe that the representatives of the teachers, the representatives of the workers, and the representatives of their parents must be a direct participation in this process. And then we can talk a lot more. As to the system of evaluation, I have already mentioned the importance of what is daily done in the schools, and that it is very important to arrive at it, and that the solution which Heziber has given him is in a quite contrary direction, and we must examine it again. And that's our way. We believe that our education system is of great value, that its health is not bad; but we believe that it has many things to improve, many things. And that this way is to be done in another way, and first, by the Decrees of the New Testament, to abandon them, and to open wide agreements, and open clear proceedings, with the participation of them all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Céla, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Maneiro, in almost all the things that you have mentioned we are quite in agreement with except one, in which education is the competence of the State, of the General Administration of the State. We don't agree on that. In everything else, in autonomy, and so on... But allow me that our proposal today brings not only what we do not want, but what we want. We want a new educational pact. We want an educational pact that allows us to move forward, that places – as you also agree – the public school at the centre of the system, and allows us to move forward on criteria of inclusiveness, quality (including that also has to include high capacities and attention to high capacities), and, finally, better futures. Look, Mrs Berriozabal, I honestly do not know how you take that direction in the debate. I don't know. I understand that you obviously have the task of defending Heziberri, but, listen, do you want to tell me what diagnostic evaluation comes from Heziberri? What diagnostic evaluation? Where was the need? Where does it come from? The school performance improvement plan? If we had a quantifiable target of 5% that you removed, when the tension was important, positive for the system! Where does it come from? What are the improvements proposed by Heziberri for Basque education? The methodology? But, hey, what methodology? When educational institutions were beginning to work the eight competencies, which are worked not only at European level, but at international level, and are the eight competencies of this century... twelve or fourteen different competences, from the University of Louvain, not explored anywhere (well, in the Confederation of Ikastolas yes)! And what's going on? Does teacher training advance? Hey, please, but if you've given a sovereign stick to teacher training! In tongues? One let it do. In the six-year extension of the educational concert framework? Maybe. Bilingualism? Look, it has nothing more to do with diagnostic evaluation: everything goes backwards. Everything backs up. In plurilingualism? Well, I don't see it! In the normative development of Lomce? There, in the implementation of evaluations, yes. So don't tell me what Heziberri is, because, anyway, he's a ghost that comes from... We don't know. But, of course, a need expressed by this educational community is not. It's not. Mr. Oyarzabal, the truth is, frankly, what I'm going to tell you. It's just that I think it's kind of sweet of you to say. Look at you, Mr. Oyarzabal, what interference? Are you going to tell me that a remedy of unconstitutionality for invasion of competences, when you even invade the powers of self-organisation that this community can have, is that a failure to comply with the law? Isn't that an active measure? Tell me where you put it, on paper... Because, Mr. Oyarzabal, that's what you tell me, but you don't tell the Basque Nationalist Party, whose sentence is that. In other words, to put forward the active exercise, that is to say to deal actively, and with all resources at the disposal of a community, of an educational administration, if that is submission...! Well, at last, then, this sokatira with which we conjugate the different powers legitimately, within a state, you will tell me how it is. Now, may you tell me that thanks to the Lomce it has gone from a 27% drop-out, from school failure, to a 19th, is that this, Mr Oyarzabal, with all due respect, is not so, and you know it. What has really led from 27.7% to 19% is not the education system or its Lomce, it is the market. Because, of course, the market when there was work acted like Hamelin's flute player, taking the boys and girls as soon as they could work. And now there is no market; that is, now students have to be in the educational centre, because, if not, they are on the street. And that's the problem. And you from Lomce don't make a simple adaptation to LOE. No, no. They completely change philosophy, and instead of people's development what they put on are the appetites of the market. And that's clear, and that's what the whole Lomce goes through, Your Honor. And I must also say that not in vain, not in vain, with the modifications and laws that, as you say, were only red, the whole community was; with theirs, both the Castle Law and this, there is no one. Finally, since I have the red one, I must finally say, Mr Oyarzabal, that the proposal, the Gabilondo proposal, was thrown into the trash bin by Cospedal when he suspected that you really won the elections. But, look, I'm not renting you the profit, because you don't believe in Lomce yourself, and I'm a witness to that. Not only because you're dismantling yourself piece by piece as a mechanic, not just because of that, but because I know many of your references, in autonomous communities represented by you, who don't want Lomce. And that's the biggest proof of failure. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u81	Yes, thank you, President. Very briefly, to clarify that I am finally going to abstain from the compromise signed by EH Bildu and the Socialist Group, because I do not want any doubt about UPyD's political position on Lomce. We are against the law, and yet we are in favour of many of the arguments put forward by Mrs Celaá, and we are also in favour of some of the issues raised in this compromise that these two parties have finally signed. We agree that the public school should be placed as a reference for the system. We support the withdrawal of Heziberri's autonomous curriculum developments and the immediate suspension of its evaluation system. And we agree that progress must be made in meeting certain objectives in terms of equity, inclusion and quality. We're against any kind of interference. We believe that the laws must be complied with, also those that seem bad or unfair to us, and in that sense Lomce, of course, must also be complied with. Therefore, and in conclusion, since there are issues that we share and others that we reject, we are finally going to abstain. As Mrs Celaá has pointed out, we agree with the Socialist Group in many of its arguments. From what I have understood, what they do not share with UPyD fundamentally is that education is the competence of the State. I have for a few minutes explained why it defends this UPyD, and the truth is that I have not heard any other political group present arguments to oppose this measure which we consider indispensable, that education be the competence of the State. We are also clear that there is no political party that today defends this idea, but we sincerely believe that it would be best for all Spanish citizens. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u82	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians, Mrs. Newori, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u83	Thank you, Chief. Well, we're still running the third-rate test. The third-party test is provided for in the decree itself, that same decree they had in their hands before it was passed; that decree to which you were able to make contributions, contributions in which neither EH Bildu nor the Socialist Party spoke of the evaluation or the third-party test. That is what you are: many words and many scarecrows, but made rather few. EH Collect says it's a problem with the cooperation process, that it doesn't agree with the process of involvement. Well, I don't agree with the concept of participation you or you have. I think you misunderstood the meaning or the concept, or misunderstood it. Parting isn't what you want or what you want. And there's been a participate. There's never been a process of participation as it was now. Mrs Celaá, tell me one project launched in your mandate in which there would be greater involvement of educational, social and political actors. Edo zuk, Arrondo andrea, gauza bera. Esadazu, Eusko Alkartasunak actingzen zuenean, zenin part-hartze prozesu ezagutu zenuen –zu hezkuntza-munduan zenden –; ezagutu al zenuen part-hartze prozesuren bat? You've been working on the operation again. We repeat: The evaluation system is associated with the attributes of the pedagogical pattern. It is connected with the patterns and demands which this frame imposes upon Lomce. One more example: Lomc disappears the course of distraction. We have maintained Euskadin here, so Lomce has not been applied in the Euskadin. But there are many more instances, e.g. not to be chosen in low degrees between mathematics. Then she likes to talk about education units. It's all right. I think it's very interesting. But you always seem to agree with the education unit. So, the point is, who talks, who talks, who talks, the unit of education, is, like, one thing or the other. He takes a different dimension for you, according to the theme we're talking about. If we're talking about education, you take 100 percent of the educational community, if the subject is financial, you take 48 to 50 percent. I'd like to ask you a little seriousness and honesty. The system needs stability in general. It doesn't only bring funding, but funding brings stability. So I'd like to ask you to speak more carefully, or at least when you're talking about the education unit, to specify the dimensions of education unit in every discussion you take. I say again that the Socialist Party was based on an absolutely wrong premise. On that he has built a speech that suits him, even if it had nothing to do with reality. And he has not explained to me how we can be applying Lomce from beginning to end, and that the Spanish Government should make a request to the Basque Government to amend Articles 3, 13, 14, 15, 16, 23, 25, 40, 46 and 54 and Annex 2. You when you can explain it to me, to see this how it can be. And that our group expected from you a greater degree of responsibility in addressing this issue and this debate, for the positions you have previously held. It gives us the feeling, Mrs Celaá, that you are not against Lomce, that you are no longer interested in this debate. You're trying to undermine the Basque government, but don't make any effort, because you won't get it. What is unheard of, as you like to say, is to listen to what it says and read The Country of today. See, the alternative of the PSOE regions. Like Catalonia, other communities reject the test of Lomce: Basque Country and the Canary Islands point out that they will not; Navarra, which will apply its own exam; Cantabria, Extremadura, Castilla-La Mancha and Aragon, who threatened not to do so, have closed a pact with the rest of the PSOE regions. The mentioned ones, plus Valencia, Balearics, Asturias and Andalusia, will do the test... I mean, if the PSOE does, it seems phenomenal. Now it turns out that those who are going to screw the Lomce are Pedro Sánchez, Susana Díaz, Fernández Vara, Ximo Puig and you. And Mrs. Celaá is also going to screw up the Lomce, look where. But saying one thing and doing another is nothing new in you. You too had the opportunity to vote in favour of an amendment creating an additional provision to the Lomce, which was presented by the Basque Nationalist Party in Congress, which requested that Euskadi reserve competence in the field of education in all its extent, levels and degrees. What did the Socialists vote for? No, no, You'll know, in the meantime, what you're entertaining about. It is a pity, we find it regrettable that we are not able to reach a minimum agreement. We believe that we have a fine way before us, with a path full of possibilities, and that Heziber himself enables us to take a great deal of steps, with a comparison which Nouscan praised Hezion in the last report; but beyond the course of education, we believe that we have an excellent opportunity of developing the system. That's why, we know that RedMork will play his best in the development of pedagogical models and in that sense he'll have our full support. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u84	Thank you, Mrs. News. Finally, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mr Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u85	Very briefly, Madam President. Mrs Celaá, you were telling me what is the inference that we have raised. Hey, but if you've come here to reproach the PNV for complying with the law! If you've come here to reproach the government for developing Lomce! If you have come here, and we have heard you in various parliamentary speeches in this House, in full and in committee, that you are opposed to the tests provided for in the law being carried out! Look, they're committed to talking about the third grade of primary school! Hey, the one you're supposed to do now, before June, is the sixth grade primary! With twelve years, primary sixth, no academic consequences, no value in qualifications, but with the need for a diagnostic evaluation that allows us to know where we are and what we need to improve. And on that test, primary sixth, you are asking that it not be done, that the law be breached. And it's up to you to do it, and the Basque Government has to do it. And you're trying to join that kind of boycott that Bildu has raised, and you're signing today a transaction with which from the minute one, from your proposal, what they pose is a boycott of the law. A boycott and submission to the law. You have finally signed with anyone who poses a boycott to the law. That poses a boycott of the Lomce, but it would pose it just like your law, that law that I don't know exactly who you want to build it with. Because you say that Lomce is splitting up and you have a few days left, but, listen, first you have to win the election. First you have to win the elections, and then articulate a majority that proposes an alternative to Lomce. Do not simply join with those who are against the PP, to see what happens. Look, there are some here who want the state to have no competence in education, and there are others who want it all. And in the middle there's a long stretch. Its approach is that the few that the State has do not exercise them. Well, listen, what we are proposing is that, for the moment, the few that the Constitution reserves to the State are exercised. And Lomce is the first law, in these thirty years, that makes a serious approach so that the State can exercise its powers, without invading those of anyone: exercise itss, those of the State, those that propose the management of the system; those that propose, since the State approves the titles, the evaluation. Because if you are going to be given an ESO title and a Bachelor's degree that will serve you to move and to present yourself on any website in Spain or Europe, someone will have to tell you what levels you have to reach, what the agendas are and what the content is! Or is everyone here going to do what he wants and we split the titles? Look, it's just a matter of exercising powers. And you will have to see exactly what consensus you seek and how it is practiced. Because what I was saying to you is that we are open to a pact for education, but a pact for education is because you already get out of the ass and leave the veto speeches, which we are already I believe that even the cap all citizens of the veto speech. We need to talk about education, all of us, and on the basis of what we have. And not only with those whose only obsession is to break the law and set foot up education. That's what I put to you in a serious way. And if you come here to simply reproach those who are eveningly developing a law to see how they fail to comply with it... With a lot of posterity! One thing is what they say to the press, another thing is what they do... but what they leave is to see if the parent associations and centers fail to do so. In the end it will be the responsibility of the centers if the law is not complied with! I believe that this is a huge lack of responsibility on the part of the PNV and the Socialist Party. I think there's a fear here that we'll be evaluated. There's a fear they'll evaluate us! And you will have to explain to us why you are opposed to an evaluation at the age of twelve and why you are opposed to an evaluation at the age of sixteen or eighteen. Do you think it's segregating that a 15-year-old can choose if he wants to go through a more technical, humanistic line, science...? Sixteen years old the government can now be elected, according to you! But how are we going to say that they choose between whether they want to go for science or for humanity! Hey, what a horror! How are we going to evaluate a 16-year-old or 18-year-old boy? What a horror! But how are we going to put him on an evaluation test, as they do in 24 countries of the European Union! What a horror, these crazy approaches of the People's Party! Evaluate! Why don't you want our education system evaluated? Why don't they want national evaluation tests? Why? It is not going to be, Mr Maneiro, that we are not giving here the contents and the minimum materials that the State sets! Hey, let's see if they're going to evaluate us on certain themes and contents that Basque students here aren't giving! Do we dare to be evaluated, or not? Hey, it's just... "No, no, and don't let it be said, that the results are secret, it's not going to be that here there's a career of centers to see who does it right and who does it wrong." Horror! No, no, secret. Any evidence has to be secret. Why are we going to know what's failing! Listen, how are you going to improve the system, if you don't want to know exactly what's going on, if you don't dare make a serious approach, as you do in the countries around us, what diagnostic tests are today, tests at the end of the stages? Don't come to me with nine-year-old monks. We are making here a serious approach to the important tests, which are at the end of the ESO, sixteen years old, and at the end of the Baccalaureate, eighteen years old. Simply replace selectivity, which today serves no purpose, with a final Baccalaureate test that serves something. And that is why there is an approach in agreement with the directors, Mrs Celaá, because we want evidence that serves something. No evidence that's useless!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u86	Thank you...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u87	Of course, to maintain evidence that serves no purpose, eliminate it. Delete them. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u88	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for the mediumal corrections signed by EH Collect and Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 36; the opposites, 37; the whites, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u89	So we're not allowed to rectification in the middle of the line. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Misto-UPyD team. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; supporters 1, contrary, 73; white, 0; abstain, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u90	So he didn't accept it. And in conclusion, we vote for the total correction of the Eubertarian party. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 27; counters, 47; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u91	So he didn't accept it. I interrupt the entire meeting until 16:15. It was two and forty in the afternoon. At four o'clock in the afternoon the meeting began again at seventeen.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u92	Good afternoon, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting again. We won't start with the vote, but since we've left our next point for another point, we'll start with the sixth point. Number of points in theme list: "The other proposition, as the party of the Misto-UPyD members of the legislature, was to prevent the loss of nutrients in vain. Discipline and final resolution. The next round of the party that made the proposal, Mr. Maniro, is your word to present and defend the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u93	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. We initially proposed, through this non-legislative proposal, that this Parliament could urge the Basque Government to create a group of specialists to advise the Executive to draw up and submit as soon as possible a draft law against food waste in the Basque Country, taking as a reference – we initially pointed out in this initiative – the recently adopted French law, which we believe is a good law and which will undoubtedly mark the path of what different countries should do from now on, and in the case of Spain the State itself, and certainly in the future more or less immediately the different autonomous communities. Various initiatives have been put forward on this subject, both in this House in March 2014 and in the Congress of Deputies itself, where recently, in recent weeks, an initiative has been unanimously adopted, a non-legislative proposal that was more or less in line with what we put forward in this initiative that we are presenting to this House. Today we are bringing this issue back to the Basque Parliament because we believe it is still of particular relevance, and we would certainly like to be able to adopt – or at least that was our original objective – unanimously an initiative that will help both to reduce food waste and to raise awareness of it among society as a whole. Spain discards some 7.7 million tonnes of food a year, out of a total of approximately 89 million tonnes of food that is wasted within the European Union, with Spain between sixth and seventh place, depending on the survey, in terms of levels of food waste within the European Union. The highest percentage of waste in rich countries is produced within households, with 42%, although the food industry follows it very closely with 39%, while restaurants and food services pull 14%, and shops and distribution with 5%. Although most of the food waste is carried out by households and restaurants, we should not leave any flanks uncovered, and that includes supermarkets and large areas, which, although not the most wasteful, the redistribution of such food to the most needy groups is much simpler than, for example, that which could be done from households. We must involve all the agents who are part of the food chain. It is true that several attempts have been made to reduce waste, both at the national and at the autonomous level; it is true that there is a greater social awareness of this issue in recent times; but it is also true that waste has not been reduced to the extent it should, and food banks continue to demand much more help. I mean, there's still a lot to do. As more than 1.3 billion tons of food are estimated each year to go to waste worldwide, according to FAO, there are millions of people who suffer from malnutrition or starve. By giving them a very concrete data, more food is wasted in the world than could be consumed by all hungry people. Poverty remains a reality also in Euskadi. The Bizkaia Food Bank in its last memo noted clear increases in real poverty, which in Bizkaia is 5.9%, while in Alava it is 8.2% and in Gipuzkoa it is 4.7%. The recently adopted law in France can be a reference not only for the Basques, but for the Spanish as a whole and also for the Member States of the European Union. I think it definitely sets a course for what should be done. France has thus become the first country in the world to ban supermarkets from throwing or destroying food that remains unsold, forcing them instead to donate it to charitable organizations and food banks. Large supermarket chains will not be able to throw away food in good condition that is close to their preferred consumption date. Charitable organizations will be able to deliver to people without resources, to feed themselves, millions of free meals each year. The law stems from a massive campaign driven by buyers, anti-poverty activists and those opposed to food waste. The activists of the French campaign hope to be able to convince the European Union to take similar measures in the other Member States. Supermarkets will also be prevented from spoiling food on purpose, a common practice to prevent people from hurling into the junk food from their containers. Supermarket managers of 400 square meters or more will have to sign donation contracts with charity organizations. Otherwise, they will suffer penalties that include fines of up to 75,000 euros or two years in prison. According to Jacques Bailet, director of a French food bank chain, the law is positive and symbolically very important. In his opinion, the growing fashion among some supermarkets that already donated food will be substantially strengthened thanks to this law. Food banks and charitable organizations will be obliged to collect and store food in adequate hygienic conditions, and to distribute it, as it is said, with dignity. The law simplifies the way in which the food industry delivers the surplus of some products directly to food banks. Something similar we want can be done in Spain and in Euskadi. As I said at the beginning, during the last few weeks at least two initiatives from two different groups have been presented in the Congress of Deputies, and one of them, which was discussed, was unanimously adopted. Finally, I think it is a positive thing, I think it is a reasonable proposal, and I think it deserves the approval of all the groups present in this House. We appreciate very positively the initiatives that have been adopted, but we believe that it is necessary to go a little further. We believe that, in addition to collaborative networks and awareness-raising, it would be advisable to establish legal mechanisms to encourage the reduction of waste and even penalize the disposal of tons of food. That is why we ask the Basque Government, if it has time, or if it comes later, to draw up a law. We have therefore signed a compromise amendment with the Socialist Group, which reads as follows: "The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to create a solidarity network for the exploitation of food surpluses in collaboration with the outlaws, local authorities, the Euskadi Federation of Food Banks, economic agents linked to the food chain, as well as organizations integrated in the food chain, in order to promote collaboration agreements and actions aimed at limiting food losses and waste, increasing their exploitation, optimizing social cooperation and reducing environmental impacts". We also propose in the second point that this Parliament urges the Basque Government to "legally regulate food waste, the exploitation of food surpluses and the establishment of a solidarity chain for the exploitation of food, establishing a system of penalties in the face of possible non-compliance with the legal obligations laid down in that regulation". I believe that in this case too, as in so many others, wanting is power, and it is up to the Government that such a law could actually be passed. A law that, in the end, should not have too much difficulty. A simple law that, in any case, could be useful for what we propose. We don't have national law today. It is possible that the issue will be discussed in the coming months. It is certainly approved at the time, but in the meantime, we think it would be interesting for Euskadi to have his own law, in order to achieve those objectives indicated in the justification and in the very proposition of this initiative. Nothing more. Thanks to the Socialist Group for signing this compromise, and to the groups that will finally support it, the two points or one of the two points that we have signed. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, the representative of the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. lópez, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u95	Good afternoon, Madam President, councillors, lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen. As has already been said, in 2014 the People's Group presented an initiative in this House asking the Government to develop a strategy together with the sector, with the administrations, with Eudel, municipalities, deputies and agents of the food sector, to develop a strategy with the aim of reducing food waste. And this is because we also had a 2013 mandate from the European Commission, which urged member states to halve food waste, and called for each member state to draw up an action plan against food waste. As has also been said, the Spanish Government has drawn up this strategy, and we have brought this initiative to this House. Transaction amendments were made, and the text that was adopted was as follows. We urged the Basque Government, in coordination with the outside parliaments, the municipalities and the various actors in the food chain, to develop joint actions that would contribute to changing attitudes, procedures and management systems that would "limit food losses and waste, increase their use, optimize social cooperation and reduce environmental impacts". What are you... Part of what you say in your first paragraph of the compromise amendment is reflected in this compromise amendment, which is broader than what you say in the first paragraph of the compromise amendment you have tabled to us. Ladies and gentlemen, there are almost 8 million tonnes of food lost each year in Spain, but of those 8 million tonnes of food lost each year, 87 % are leftover food leftovers from meals, which we ordinary citizens waste, because we do bad shopping, or poorly organized shopping, or because we poorly organize the pantry, refrigerator or freezer. That's basically 86% of the food waste. Then there is another food that corresponds to different links in the food chain, from collecting in the field of certain products to processing, processing and selling, which is what you refer to from the chains. Mr Maneiro proposes that we make a law like that of France, because he has explained to us what goodness the law of France has. He wants us to rule, but he hasn't told us what to rule, how he wants to rule. The supermarket chains in Spain (I dare say that almost one hundred per cent, but of those in the Basque Country one hundred per cent of the chains of large areas) already have a chain of distribution of those foods that are about to expire or that are no longer to be at the point of sale. And they distribute it, and they distribute it to social eateries, food banks, and the social sphere. That's what you do here. I don't know if it's done in France. Because I will also tell you that the food bank system in Spain is the best in Europe. Therefore, we are not in the same conditions as France in this respect, for example. So, what do you want to regularize? Who inspires this law initiative? What is the purpose of this law initiative? Collecting food? Or doing a business with food, with the waste of food? I would like to know that, because everyone thinks in one way, and we know that there are many doubts about what is behind this initiative. A lot of doubts. He tells us about sanctions, but others also tell us about fees... I don't know, if it makes us clear, we see the light, but we don't see the light. We believe that where we have to do a very important job, it is in the area of awareness-raising to the citizen, to us, ourselves, of how to organize purchases, of how to treat food, what to do, what recipes to do when you encounter certain products that you have a surplus... That is what many organizations are doing today in Spain, which have already been working on the strategy. For example Hispacoop, which is an association of the Confederation of Users and Consumer Cooperatives, and on your page you can see all the work they develop and that they have been developing for almost three years. But there are other associations, and they are doing awareness-raising work. And what we say in the initiative we approved at the time, which has already done two years of the approval of that strategy initiative, that we have asked the counselor to appear to explain to us what they have done, what difficulties they have (equal, or not) in some areas, where a residue is generated that is difficult to manage... But we really don't see the need for the law. And it's just that you haven't told us about the kindnesses, either. The goodness is that France has done it. Look, I don't know, we're not in the same condition as France! So, just like they need the law. Of course, the European Commission did not say that legal treatment should be given to this, eh! He didn't say that, no. Therefore, indeed, for that haste to make a law in the Government of Spain, in all the autonomous communities, or to show us the urgent need, or it is difficult to understand. We are going to vote (if we are allowed to vote for paragraphs) on the first paragraph of your initiative, because, as I said, it is part of the compromise amendment that we approved in this House. It focuses on one aspect only of that initiative, but we approved that two years ago, so we are going to vote in favour. We have proposed to you that in the text of the compromise amendment you have made, rather than having it legally regulated in the autonomous community, it should be considered whether to regulate. Hey, let's see what conditions we're in! Let's see what we're gonna regulate and how. Because that 15% of waste that does not correspond to the residue of small homes and eaters, how is it treated? So, what are we going to regulate? It is just that I really have doubts about the suitability of this regulation. And regular to sanction... First we will have to do a treatment, put some systems, and see if this can be treated in a normalized way without having to make a law, because that law will bring fees (someone will do it), sanctions, that I don't know if... I don't know, I don't know, the same goes for a study and it comes out that the law is indeed necessary! I believe that we have made a reasonable proposal, that the possibility of regulating should be considered, but you must have a greater commitment than this House which obliges you to mark the de facto regulation. We will not cooperate in that proposal. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u96	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists, Mrs. Sarasia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u97	Good afternoon. This is not the first time we have discussed this issue in this Parliament. On 31 October 2013, we asked the Employment and Social Policy Adviser about food surpluses and food banks, and at that time, in connection with the improvement of the social use of food surpluses, he told us that it was the outlying members who were doing a worthy work of financial and technical support to food banks. And with regard to inter-institutional campaigns aimed at reducing this food waste by producers and distributors, as well as consumers, the Government did not foresee any joint action. In December 2013, at the request of the Socialist Group, the presidents of the three food banks of Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa appeared in this Parliament. They told us how they served around seventy thousand people annually, and that every month they added a thousand more people to their list of beneficiaries. From December 2013 until today, more than two years have passed; I hope that these thousand people will not continue to be added to those lists, because it is clearly shown that they are not enough. They said that food banks can alleviate the effects of hunger on time, but cannot supplement the work of a government. They called for more cooperation from the institutions, and a regulation that avoids the waste of defective products by supermarkets and food chains, and greater coordination with outlaws and basic social services of the municipalities to ensure control of the final destination of the products they distribute. The Basque Parliament, in plenary held in March 2014, approved an agreement, an original proposal by the Basque People's Group which ended with an agreement between the Basque Nationalist groups, the Basque People's Group and the Socialist Group, calling on the Basque Government, in coordination with the outlaws and municipalities, and different actors in the food chain, to develop joint actions that would help to change attitudes, procedures and management systems that would limit food losses and waste, increase their exploitation, optimize social cooperation and reduce environmental impacts. And different actions were taken to address these issues. Research was being discussed to reduce food waste in the various links in the food chain, to promote more sustainable short food distribution chains, and the creation of a solidarity network for the exploitation of food surpluses in collaboration with food banks and social entities integrated into the food supply chain. Regarding the implementation of this agreement, the Counsellor for Economic Development and Competitiveness replied in July 2015 to a question posed by Mr Barrio, and said that in relation to designing these strategies that are aimed at limiting the loss and waste of food, because, well, that certain concrete measures had been promoted in the development of short distribution chains, and specifically referred to the Rural Development Programme 2015-2020, but no further explanation was given. I would also like to recall that, in May 2015, among the resolutions adopted in the monograph on the political action of the Basque Government in the field of the environment, which was adopted in the committee, there was a resolution, number 29, which said that the Basque Parliament called on the Basque Government to develop actions that would contribute to a real change in attitudes, working procedures and management systems for all food chain agents that would limit the loss and waste of food and reduce environmental pressures. Finally, we are again debating this issue in this House today, and I have explained all this because I have been reading the debate that was concluded in plenary in 2014 and so far I have seen no more news than the initiative that has been taken. That is to say, we have already moved towards the possibility of legislation in this area within the Basque Autonomous Community and within our area of competence. And it's nothing sloppy. Obviously, I do not understand that exploiting food surpluses is a business to be enriched. I understand you have to have an end. That is what the Government is for, to establish the legal terms so that this does not happen, of course. And what I do understand is that to date we have made no progress in this area, because of course several initiatives have been taken, and for the moment what has been done from the Basque institutions has not made great progress and – what is more terrible for us – has not meant what we have achieved or what we want to achieve. Food banks and social organizations do a great deal of work (I know, I have collaborated in several campaigns gathering food), but at the moment they are not able to meet the needs that are emerging. And poverty and social exclusion, which are the most dramatic consequences of this long crisis, are now affecting more and more families, and that is so. Because today we were talking about job poverty, but there are a lot of families that, well, they're working, or people who are claiming unemployment, or people who even get social benefits, which is that they don't really get to cover their basic needs anymore. Because obviously life goes up, and people, between feeding, light, water, and all this question, then, does not come. And food and housing costs have to be met, they are basic costs. That is why, in our amendment to the original proposal, we delete all references to French law. We, the Basque Socialist Group, said in our amendment that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to create this solidarity network for the exploitation of food surpluses, in collaboration with outlaws, local authorities, the Euskadi Federation of Food Banks, economic agents linked to the food chain, as well as organisations and social entities integrated in the food chain, in order to promote collaboration agreements and actions aimed at the exploitation of food. And secondly, we urged the Government to regulate legally in the community the exploitation of food surpluses and the establishment of that solidarity chain for exploitation. I believe that this is an initiative, which we were presenting and which we have had sex with the proposing group in the terms that we were putting into our amendment, it is an initiative that is not unbridled, and of course here it is very clear what the Socialist Group believes should be done in this area; that I am of course aware that European reports and directives are already going to go in this direction, and we are going to see for a while how the Member States are going to start to legislate on the subject of food use. For our part, we would like to express our satisfaction with the agreement reached, and, while respecting the positions of the other groups, we would indeed ask that this compromise amendment be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Sarasa. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u99	The chief physician, the chief physician, the members of the legislature, all the afternoons. I don't know if at this time, still with the stomach full of food, it's best to talk about food waste, but that's what you've touched. And it also invades me a certain feeling of déjà vu, because we reiterate it, like so many other things, only that we will probably see it more times, because this is a problem of resolution in the medium and long term. Because in the background this is the result of a society that has been living in opulence for a long time, and we have refocused on it and have acquired opulent forms in everyday life, and it is very difficult for us to simply turn that behavior around. At the same time, there is a situation of crisis, of unemployment, of growing layers of poverty, which help to generate a social awareness of rejection of waste, but I still have the feeling that it is an aesthetic rejection. There is not yet an individual awareness of behavior. Today's issue is about the waste of food, one of the many waste that our Western European white society has become accustomed to. Because, just as some people have already learned to disaggregate waste, they have a counterpoint that is not so disaggregatable, although there are people who strive, which is that of poverty. We've generated underprivileged labor, energy, food... There really is only one, in the case of poverty there is only one: being poor. Another thing is that we agree on the economic threshold of that category. On the other hand, the waste, that one goes through neighborhoods. The waste... It can be an energy wasteper, it can be a compulsive shopping wasteper for anything, and it can be a food wasteper, which we are almost all. I'm sure there's someone, there's people who are structural waste pickers, but it doesn't look like it's the majority. Focused already on food waste, we should know what perspective the issue has, and I would like to quote the 2013 report of the Economic and Social Committee of the European Union, still recent, which speaks of the fact that food loss and waste can only be analysed from a global perspective. It has already been said here, from harvest to consumption, throughout the chain. It must be analysed globally, it cannot be separated. At the same time, it must be analysed globally from the impacts it generates, and the report speaks of the fact that the most important impact is the environment, the most tangible, especially in the part where we talk to a great extent about exploitation, which is the fermentable part. It has an economic impact, because of the increase in costs involved in this waste, and it obviously has a social impact, that this report does more in terms of it being a warning (it says so textually)... "an ethically unbearable alarm." Well, with the GNP proposed today, which waste do we intend to tackle? Everyone? A part? The environmental part? The social part? Any area...? I am not going to repeat the figures, all of which I gave in 2014 and which have been given today, but I do want to focus on one: in food waste, all the surveys that have been carried out in Europe give that 42% of waste is in households (42%), and 5% in distribution (5 %), and that among all Europeans we waste 172 kilos/year per person, and that all Europeans throw away a fifth of what we buy daily (the fifth part, 20%). That's the data we need to think about. Once I have framed this multi-reality, let us go to the core of the proposal put forward by Mr Maneiro, which deals with a possible solution, a possible solution, which is nothing more than making a law imitating French law recently adopted. But, of course, let us analyse that law and consider what is happening in France with that law. That voluntarious law, which must be recognized as a result of the commitment of someone specific and of a certain populism, and of which no one wanted to back off, affects those responsible for 5% of the waste. I'd say I miss you, because it's only the supermarkets over 400 meters. We've taken away a lot of people. That is, we will be talking about 3% or 4% of the situation. This voluntary law has already caused a serious problem for food banks. The food banks were not prepared for the massive entry of this quantity of products, not only fresh: at five hours of expiration (i.e., in the immediateness of expiration). And they also need... because the law transfers the need for infrastructure and logistics to banks. It's very easy for a supermarket to say, "Here you are, Mr. Bank." More then another risk, the food risk, the risk of food security, of food health, because these products have to go immediately to those in need of the food bank, which are not exactly the healthiest. And, of course, we are giving them a product under sometimes painful and risky conditions. Anyway, just to point out. The law, it is true, has placed the problem of food waste on the frontline of public opinion. In that sense – you said it, and the French quoted it – it's symbolic, it's very good from symbolism. But what reality is it going to solve? It has put food banks into investing, etc., etc., and all this for trying to solve 3 or 4 % of the problem. Because really then to solve the problem of the food bank, or of the needy of food, it is not solved with a repulsed lettuce or a loose apple, eh! Let's... let's say, let's be serious about this stuff. When the European ESC's report tries to address solutions it does talk about the possibility of supermarkets collaborating, but working together from giving guidance to the consumer to buy what he needs, for a lot of things, and it also says that the authorities should facilitate the delivery of food to banks, but with priority being security, food security. Not food security, but English health security safety. We are therefore talking about a serious problem, applying it exclusively to the responsible 4 or 5 % of the problem. We are talking about applying the solution to a problem only in the part of partial reappraisal. And we leave the very serious environmental problem marginalized by this proposal. It can look very good on headlines, it can be symbolically meaningful in a moment, but it won't work. What is really to be addressed with this proposal for a law?, the waste of food, or feed the food banks? Because both of you can't be, it doesn't necessarily be, it can't be. Something can be done for both of us, but they don't necessarily come together. It is not, therefore, to make laws to force food to be delivered in the near future that will resolve things. The efficiency of the chain needs to be improved. If we improve the efficiency of the chain, I'm sure there's more food available, lower prices, and there's more people with a chance to buy it. In this sense, from the compromise – and now I am going to the compromise – the first point seems reasonable to me, because, as Mrs López de Ocariz has said, it is partly like what we were having at the time, and of course very much like what we had tabled as an amendment. Therefore, also, if we are allowed to vote separately, we will support the first point. I don't understand the second one. I don't understand the second, because it's the same as the first, but let a law be made. Exactly the same as the first one. That is, in the first one they say that the government works to make a network, and in the second one that a law is made for that network, but also clarifying one thing: that if someone does not comply, pum!, fine. That's like "equestrian horse." It's a redundancy, with law. It's "equestrian horse," with law. That's right. So, I don't understand that point. I will insist that responsibility lies throughout the chain, throughout the chain. Efforts must be made to raise the awareness of the whole chain, and in particular to raise the awareness of households, which destroy 42% of the food waste generated in this country. More than just legislating on supermarket food supplies, think about that amount of bread that ends up daily in the trash, those two-by-one supermarket offers that normally end up rotten and also in the trash, or those free buffets where we fill the dish, we eat 20%, and, in addition to coming home with an indigestion, 80% ends up in the trash. If, as Nicolas de Chamfort, an 18th-century French philosopher, said, society is divided into two major classes, that of those who have more food than appetite and that of those who have more appetite than food, let us try to work to raise awareness, so that some decrease their food grabbing and the second ones can have more access to it, but not about to expire. Not about to expire, except the yogurts for Minister Cañete, which those serve him. In short, it is about working to teach, show and raise awareness about the maximum that we should try to flee from opulence (that is the great debate), while feeling emotionally supportive and aware of scarcity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u100	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. A band without correction, the Representative of the Collector, Mr. Lazarus, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u101	Good afternoon, everyone. We've heard a lot of data on prior interference in the loss of nutrients. It's terrible that while the people are hungry, they're going to throw food away. But, well, this is the world we have built, and we see in this world that we have food as if it were any other merchandise: it is produced in every part of the world, in the importation and exportation, by thousands of miles, and, well, a great part of it is thrown out of it; And now, we can say that the current nutriment system itself loses its nutrients in vain. And Mr. Tellegio also mentioned that this problem must be seen from a general point of view. We also wish to give this general view, so that we may say it is a mistake in the nutriment system. A system defect based on Neoliberalism, because it is in favor of the great corporations that all the principal decisions about nutrients. And as long as the great corporations have some profits, they don't care to use chemical ingredients in the production of nutrients; they don't care whether they produce nutrients that are harmful to people's health; they don't care whether peasants work under slavery, they don't waste their food because it's really their sole concern, their financial interest, their benefits. And in the world, we live over 7 billion people, 800-900 people are hungry, more than half of them are peasants, and if we come here in the homes where there are serious problems of food. In Europe, for instance, we have known some contrivances for regulating food and market, the quotas for regulating production, we have the quotas of Exodus milk and vineyards lately disappeared, such as the prices of intervention, which have been made to regulate the markets, and, well, a few years ago, the public banks of the cereals have disappeared... But we see Europe is destroying all these contrivances. Why? Because great corporations don't like this kind of prayer mechanism. They are troublesome to corporations, and prefer, in some measure, to hand everything over to the market, without any entreaty. The nutrient system is that which interests the neoliberary food in any part of the world, where the production of large volumes is used as much chemical as possible, to transport these productions into the world, to sell and sell what is not sold in any department of the world, and, of course, to produce the greatest possible profits by the corporations. The famine in the world, though some say it's not because of production. You double it, you produce it, you lose a lot of it. And the problem of famine is the economic interests of the great corporations. To face the hungry and the wasted food, we must go to the root of the problem, and we must change the current nutrient system. We have often alluded to the fact that this change seems to us to be made in the way of the principle of property of nourishment, that this means must be done by it, that local food systems must be strengthened, the model of production, the model of transformation, the division model, the return of everything. And to do that, of course, you have to regulate production and markets. And in this way of prayer, in this way of not allowing corporations to do whatever they please, we see the matter of regulating them just as well as of wasting their provisions. We can see very well that we have certain duties for corporations. And in this sense the original suggestion introduced by UPD was that way, and we could see it perfectly well. In the correctities introduced, then, it must be said that PSOE has somehow received this point of legislation, and that EAJ and PP want no laws. Two years ago you've come to the legal proposal that we agreed on the legislature, and, well, you're not going to change anything at all. At last, even in the middle by which UPD is made between PSOE and UPD, we receive that it must be regulated by law, and we vote for it. And I must say, you have attempted to argue, in some way, that, when I hear from you, the intervention of lópez de Ocaris, there is no difficulty in arguing, that it is very small, and that everything is directed, and it seems to us that you are involved in a contradiction or contradiction. I mean, two years ago, we worked this matter in the legislature here, and a solution or a solution was proposed to a problem; you also set up your corrections in that direction; and even to-day you have been ready to protect the first point. So there's a problem or isn't there? If the problem is, it seems to us that a law is the best solution, and, if there is no problem, we are here in vain, not the first point and not the second. And I have to tell EAJ too: Well, to understand the second point is very simple, even if it costs you it, it's very simple. Is it necessary, that great corporations should lawfully impose certain duties, or must they be allowed to do whatever they please?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u102	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Passing the answers, Mist, Mr. Maneiro, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u103	Yes, thank you very much, President. Thanks to the two groups that are going to vote in full on this compromise amendment, and also to the other groups that are going to vote on at least the first of the points. This matter has not been invented by UPyD. This matter has already been discussed in this House at the initiative of the People's Group, which has indeed seen that there is a problem here and that a number of actions must therefore be put in place to correct it, and on that basis a compromise was agreed and voted on on 13 March 2014. The issue that appears to be of concern to the Basque Nationalist group and the People's Group, for suspicious reasons (these may be) is whether or not the articulation of a law is indeed necessary. We think so. We believe that this transactional that we all signed already pointed out what are some of the measures that should be put in place. We believe that these measures, and some others, should have legal form, and therefore should be included in a national law or an autonomous law, as we propose. The truth is that all of you have made very interesting reflections, some of them almost philosophical, but in any case we share. Certainly, we are all responsible. Fundamentally, one essential issue is that we buy much more than we need, and this is true. And someone has remembered the need for food banks to have a perfectly designed infrastructure and strategy to do what would be required in this law, and we agree. That is, there are a number of difficulties. It gives the feeling that this is an excessively new matter, and therefore there are many things to correct, articulate and order. But that is the purpose of the law. Of course, it is essential, and everyone here has said, to raise the awareness of households and of the whole chain. It is important to flee from opulence, not to produce more than necessary, and we agree with all this. But as long as this is not achieved, we believe that a law that includes certain measures, including sanctions, can be positive. Basically with two objectives: to reduce the waste of food to the extent possible, and, while this waste of food occurs, that these foods in good condition can reach those who need them. I think it's very simple to understand. This is basically what we intend to regulate. And I have pointed out some of the things that have been intended to regulate in France, such as forbidding supermarkets to throw away or destroy the food that remains unsold, forcing them instead to donate it to charity organizations and food banks. This would be one of the objectives. We are told, "No, but this is already done." Well, let it continue to be done, but let there be legal protection so that there is greater legal certainty and things can be done well. Supermarkets will also be prevented from spoiling food on purpose, a common practice to prevent people from hurling into the junk food from their containers. This happens here too! Anyway, a series of measures, right? Food banks and charitable organizations will be obliged to collect and store food in adequate hygienic conditions and to distribute it with dignity. It is also something that should be and can be perfectly regulated here. Or, noting some of the proposals put forward by other groups recently in the Congress of Deputies and which received unanimous support from the whole House, incorporate in that bill the ban on large areas and supermarkets to throw out consumer-friendly products and allocate them to non-profit social organizations that cater to people below the poverty line. To include in this law measures for the reuse and recycling of food products that are no longer fit for human consumption, thus benefiting the economy and the environment. To force (yes, to force, indeed; perhaps this is the problem and what concerns some) large areas and supermarkets to be transparent and to make public the destination of food products that are no longer suitable for sale. These are some of the objectives raised even by other groups in Congress and which have received unanimous support. I think it's perfectly understandable. To reflect in this law all the requirements of the different links in the food chain, and to demand that what is supposed to be done is actually controlled that is actually done, and that there is legal certainty and is done perfectly well. All this is what we intend. If it is also written and written in that transactional that we have proposed! The second point points out what some of the objectives of this law are. I therefore believe that it is perfectly understood what is being proposed. And I also believe that in the Member States little by little such laws will be passed. And we point out at first the reference to French law as being the first, but obviously the circumstances of each place must be taken into account. But it seems to me that it can be a good reference. We don't have any higher or suspicious interest rates that can't be counted. Our interests are perfectly explained in that initiative. Maybe others have other interests. What I don't think you can argue with is that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u104	Finish up, Mr. Maniro...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u105	... The law is not necessary because supermarkets or certain corporations do not like the idea. This is an argument that seems very loose to us. I believe that there is much to be done in this matter, and since, moreover – in this community and in others – laws are made for almost everything, I believe that this is an important matter that can perfectly deserve a law, and a good law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u106	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u107	Mr. Maneiro, you're in your lock. I think the proposal we have made to you is "to study the possibility of regulating", and you just want to "regulate". That's why I'm surprised that you're not able to modulate, with all the doubts and fans you've opened up here, that the interesting thing, the logical thing would be to study the possibility of regulating. I think it's pretty logical. You want regular, the document picks that up. I do not know what your commitments are; I know why I introduced the initiative at the time, why I am going to support the first point, and why the second point creates many doubts for me. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u108	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Lady Sarah must not speak. Eubertarians, Mr. Tellegioía, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u109	Thank you. Good afternoon, again. I was not going to come in because I didn't think the issue required further debate, but, Mr. Maneiro, you've been at this point calling me corrupt for not accepting a law. He said there are suspicious issues where we do not want a law passed. You missed this to call me corrupt! Man, that's it! Look, do you know why I don't want to pass the law? Do you know why I don't want to pass a law here? First, because, if you want to do it, you do it and present it, and point. I don't have to ask the government to do it. Secondly, because it calls for the legal regulation of food waste. That's not meddling with supermarkets, or homes, or anyone, as it's written here. They don't say a law that regulates supermarkets. Thirdly, because I believe more in this area, at the moment, in awareness-raising than in the laws. Fourthly, because there may be a lot of society that, at the moment we say in a law that a supermarket has to deliver all its food, wipe its hands and believe that the issue is already fixed. Fifth, because supermarkets are far better off being forced to give it to a food bank, which is free of charge, than to give it to a landfill, which costs them a price. Are they worth it as arguments to think that I'm not suspicious of anything, that I'm not corrupt because I don't want to make a law that controls supermarkets? That you are very given, you immediately go away from the word! And it can't be, it can't be that you use any fear to accuse others that we have hidden interests. No, no, Okay. Okay. You've tired me out, on a minor subject like this. Let us work on awareness-raising, not legalization, which we have also told you that we have approved the first point. Adopting the first is approving the second! If you say the exact same thing! I insist, "horse: equine." Sensitization needs to be worked on. I repeat one thing that I said in the 2014 debate, where we traded the issue, which also earned me a prize from the journalists in this Parliament. I quoted, and I insisted again, I mentioned that we had to work in the homes to get back to what our mothers were doing, that they took what you left on the plate every Monday, every Tuesday, every Wednesday, every Thursday and every Friday, and on Saturday there were croquettes and Sunday cannellones. Of what? You'll find out! About what there was. We saved up bringing organic matter to the landfill, we solved that problem, we didn't have to do "atez ate". I didn't go to waste much. Okay? We were like this, we weren't opulent yet. Then we became opulent, I don't know why. I don't know if it's the big corporations or why we all went crazy, but I don't know. By the way, I would like to bring some day a GNP to pay tribute to those housewives who have saved a lot of time in advancing climate change, because we ate it all in the form of cannellones. With a lot of tomato, that was; it was the way to move. But in any case, it is. And, therefore, do not think that a law that forces supermarkets to give to the food bank – which, I insist, they are doing today because it is cheaper for them – do not think that that is the balm of Fierabrás, to solve the waste of food. Because it could be – and this is the most important thing for me – that, applying that law, which is what is happening in France, with a big drum and a plate, a culprit is pointed out (which are big corporations, they are big multinationals), a culprit is pointed out who is responsible for 5%, and the rest of the citizens we continue without making cannellones, without making croquettes, throwing a lot of food into the trash, and washing our hands. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Tellegioía. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u111	Yes, we have a subject of dispute about the loss of nutrients, and we cannot discuss this matter without examining why it is happening. We are facing a problem, and how to manage the damages which this problem causes, how to manage as best we can, well, that's what we must do; but we must also observe what's going on in the root of the problem. And here we criticize the present neoliberal system of nutrients, and what we plan is to make the way to the nutrient. And in this respect, must corporations have certain duties to prevent the nourishment from being wasted? Well, we believe that there is need of a plea that food is possible, and that at least it is useless to lose. We know how certain corporations play the game: in order to justify their faces, they provide nutrient food for the nutrients, especially for Christmas and so on. And when the creators of the problem are themselves, they make a donation and make a face-white face. And we see here a kind of white-face that you're doing here from PP and EAJ: there's an opportunity for regulating corporations as duties, but that's not what you want. In a really serious subject, you have no limits to corporations...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u112	Please be quiet. He hasn't finished yet.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u113	... You don't want them to sit down. And even more so you make the road easier for them. You are also prepared to facilitate the means of shipping, so that they may continue in their economic profits without looking at the interests of the people. And here, Mr. Tellegio, you mention that it takes more sense and less law, and I say that corporations have no sensitivity, and that they don't care about their financial benefits for remutation in a second or third degree. If any one doubts about this, the matter of TIPP can be clearly seen that no less food will be wasted here by accepting TIPPa. What's going to happen is probably the opposite. There will still be a greater competition in the markets in a market where there is no rule, and the nutriments which are now wasted, and the flesh of the hormonic animals which come from the United States will probably be wasted. People's targets aren't, Mr. Tellegio, corporations. Because of TIPPa, you bow your head to the corporations, and you bow your head to the restrictions of corporations about wasting their nutrients. That's what we've seen here today, that you place the interests of corporations before the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u114	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. We're going to vote for the Misto-UPyD and Euska Sozialist. The vote could be... ? Okay. We'll vote for Point One. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u115	It was unanimously accepted. the point. Next, we vote for number two. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u116	As equality is, we'll vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 37; counters, 37; whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u117	As equality persists, it will be left to the next plen. The seventh point on the theme list: "The other proposition of the American People of Euscal Law, as did the Populous Groups, concerning the production of the Basque Council of Susscan Society. Discipline and final resolution. The party that made the proposal has the word of Carmelus Barrio, representing and defending the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u118	Yeah, good afternoon. Thank you, President. I am not going to go too far in presenting this non-legislative proposal. It is a subject that, especially those we talk about and those we discuss about social economy in the House, we know. It's not a new topic. Nor is it an original proposition or idea of the group I represent. It initiates more than one law of the Socialist Party in the Congress of Deputies, adopted by all parliamentary groups unanimously in 2011. I mean, it's a law that had an important deal. And it also draws from the opinion of the Basque legal doctrine on the economy and law of cooperatives and on the legal-political practice on the need to promote the social economy on this land, on the other hand land and the leading country in regulatory regulations and in regulations of social economy management formulas, as you all know. And this non-law proposal was trying to take one more step. One more step that I assure you will be taken. If it is not today, if it is not in this legislature, in the next, but it will be something to be given, this deepening in the catalogue of social economy entities and in what will be a definitive body in relation to the social economy, probably also with the solidarity economy, but as advisory and advisory council of public administrations. In any case, in order to make progress, to focus on promoting the social economy in Euskadi, we needed the Basque Government, together with the sector... We have seen small disagreements in this legislature, but, well, we continue to try to build bridges, and we have also talked about it with the professors of the universities, which must be deepened, we must continue to weave complicitys, synergies common to the sector by the administrations..., that take the necessary steps to develop measures, channels of action, knowledge and management, that serve to strengthen the presence, the development of this form of economic generation, of the social economy, and of the employment that it generates. It has already come out of Law 5/2011 and has been defined, and its development is still pending. Indeed, that is true, it must be acknowledged. It is an important law, a law passed by parliamentary groups in 2011 with unanimity. There is still a way to go, but we too can do so, regardless of whether others do it or not. This Law of Social Economy, 5/2011, adopted in the General Courts, gives an important scope, an important room for manoeuvre to the autonomous communities in the functions of promotion, updating of the social economy, and, of course, in the Basque Parliament – you know it – we have recently had university experts who recognized and justified the need to take important steps in relation to this visibility, with that need to promote the social economy, its forms of presence and its forms of socio-economic influence in society, in that particular or special way of being entrepreneurial, and to do so in the Basque too, in relation to certain issues that we know well and that fall well into that area that the Law of the Social Economy of the Congress of Deputies defined, which was a thing expected and necessary at that time. I say again, to develop and to take steps in its effective materialization. We ask for two questions in the non-legislative proposal. The first, perhaps a little more complex, for the organization and development it deserves, is to urge the Basque Government to create the Basque council for the promotion of the social economy (the denomination... we have drawn that, but it can be any other; there have been other denominations elsewhere), in relation to the promotion of the social economy, which will be set up as an advisory and consultative body for activities related to that socio-economic formula. That advisory, advisory, important, powerful advice... because it would also be installed, would be anchored in a heterogeneous and diverse sector, with specificities, but also with a lot of history and with a lot of roots in these economic, industrial, productive, cooperative, and so on. And also in this non-legislative proposal we talk about urging the Basque Government to take the necessary steps for the elaboration, also in accordance with Law 5/2011, of that catalogue of the different types of social economy, integral entities of that social economy in the Basque Autonomous Community. That this important, also active, updated catalogue should then be in contact with other instruments also from other fields, in particular the state, because Law 5/2011 so requires, but there is no doubt that it will be productive for visibility, to know how this sector is and to know it in an effective way, and also perfectly coordinated with the activities and actions, as I will then refer to, of that Basque Council of Social Economy. Our approach is constructive. It's a constructive approach. I mean, if the initiative isn't approved, we're not going to get mad, because it's going to be done. Sooner or later, it'll be done. Like the law on cooperatives, we are not going to have it in this legislature, but we have to do it, because it is an imperative necessity. I mean, it's gonna be done. In any case, it is the promotion of the social economy, and one of the bases is that important, basic body. Because there are other efforts or other areas where the social economy is represented, but not with force, not with its own protagonism; diluted perhaps in other activities, in other needs. And that promotion of the social economy is of entrepreneurs and job creators, and of productivity creators in a specific way. We have taken advantage of and want to take advantage of the slightest loophole, in this case that of the social economy, to promote the economy in any of its formulas. We also think that this is a formula, to do in what is a legal sustenance, and also some theoretical bases that advise it to be made. The social economy – and you know that, and particularly those who have worked on this subject during these legislatures, especially in the latter two – still has a very important way to go. It is an instrument of the future, which must still be ordered as a collective – I say again – heterogeneous, but it must also develop new forms of internal restructuring. We all know that, and that's gonna have to happen. We are presenting in the parliamentary initiative an issue that we have already dealt with, I say again, that we have dealt theoretically with in this Parliament, and that, sooner or later, it will undoubtedly have an effective development and will take a concrete, institutionalized and specialized form. I don't know whether it will be a Basque council for the promotion of the economy..., or a council of Euskadi..., or another formula, or scope, or forum, but in any case, you know that in relation to the social economy and the solidarity economy that will be given, and we will see it and fortunately will be given. Let's hope it's in the next legislature. The creation of a Basque council for the promotion of the social economy will undoubtedly be a fact, and my group wants this to happen as soon as possible. Similarly, the creation and updating of a catalogue of the entities of the Basque social economy is an important element in identifying their socio-economic models of production and applying rules that favour and encourage them. Social economy laws, social economy rules and other events that have to do with the social economy we have experienced in recent years, we have experienced them in the Basque Country. Back to 1993, the Cooperatives Act of 1993, its reforms; the Small Cooperative Society Act in 2008, most recent; the foral standard (up to foral standards!), the Norma Foral de Fomento de la Economía Social, also adopted in 2014 at the initiative of the Socialist Juntero Group, a reference law also in the field of foral; the birth of the Basque Observatory of the Social Economy, also in 2008, and its works, which have also been good for the government on many occasions... Now we are with another bill under study, which has more to do with the economy..., I understand that it is social economy, others discuss it (social economy, solidarity...). Well, the bill from the third social sector, which also has to do with these issues... And the work of the cooperative, university, historical institutes of the three Basque universities, in this sense. And then the Spanish regulations. We have to say... Well, I have already referred to Law 5/2011, on Social Economy, but Law 13/2013, on promoting the integration of cooperatives and other agro-food associations; Law 31/2015, amending the self-employment regulations and adopting (very important) measures to promote and promote self-employment and the Social Economy, which has had to do with integration companies in an essential way (they have already informed us about what these issues have to do with them); also the Law of 2015 of 9 October, of the Third Sector of Social Action (third sector, also a law approved in this legislature in the General Courts, also in this area of economy that is discussed or valued but that is there); or, there is no doubt, the law, also recent, 44/2015, of Labour and Participating Societies, in relation to this issue. That is to say, we are taking important steps at the state level, also at the Basque level. That we have been a little behind on the cooperative bill, unfortunately, but we could have made some progress in a slightly more certain way. But, despite the fact that there are still regulatory needs for development in Spain, also here, for updating and reform also in Euskadi, we understand that we can continue to take steps, especially in the development of regulations. We have heard the experts' analysis, the need to deepen the political construction of the instruments, to which we refer in our initiative. And it is not that we are in a hurry, I say again, but it does seem to us that the Government can go to work on its garment. It had as elements questions that already asked us experts of the Basque Observatory of Social Economy, of the Institute of Law of the Cooperatives of Deusto, or of the University of the Basque Country itself, in relation to these formulas, in relation to that council of promotion (or what is called) of the social economy in the Basque Country, as an advisory body. In other words, we know that this council should bring together the administrations, not only the autonomous administration, through the representatives of the corresponding department (of Employment and Social Services in this case), or the outlaws, Eudel also, the representative entities of the social economy, representation of the universities, of the Basque Observatory of Social Economy itself... It is that we are well prepared to create a council! I wasn't going to be a little boy here! It was going to be an advisory board to generate employment and productivity. I mean, in that sense I think we were well prepared. And the experts told us, we've seen it as a necessity, they tell us our laws, laws passed by all... And, in this sense, article 13 of Law 5/2011, on Social Economy, speaks of this council at the state level, but it says the capacity and the possibility that autonomous communities have to find a perfect formula for articulating this issue. There have also been experiences in other autonomous communities. Indeed, this law has reconfigured this possibility of acting as a council for social economy, but it is true that it is necessary to inform and collaborate in the elaboration of projects on legal and regulatory provisions in the field of social economy; to prepare reports on this issue; to evacuate, where there are laws, when there is an update of the catalogue of social economy entities, and also to report on the issue; to report on programmes for the development and promotion of social economy; to carry out studies and reports on issues affecting it; to ensure the promotion and respect of the computer principles of these issues, and to take initiatives and propose initiatives. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that it is indeed a proposal that is not original from the Group of the European People's Party; it is a proposal taken from the existing legislation, on the one hand, and from the doctrinal, legal proposals, from our universities and from the institutes reporting on this issue. I say again, this will be done. Let us hope that it will start in this legislature, but in any case I believe it is important to treat it, and that we will be grateful to the social economy sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u119	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Groups that filed the corrections. The representative of the EH Group, Mrs. Zulaika, is your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u120	Yes, thank you, ma'am, and good evening to all. We must say that we agree with the purpose of the other proposition, as we are arguing. Socialnomy and solily economics include the various types of entities for the modification required by the sociative patterns of our present harbinger. In the face of the logic of capital and the growing commercialization of both the public and private spheres, and the search for maximum economic benefit, the solidarity economy seeks, above all, to build relations of production, distribution, consumption and financing based on justice, cooperation, reciprocity and mutual aid. An economy that takes people into account, that puts people, the environment, sustainable and sustainable development at the centre, that puts people and work at the centre of the economic system, giving markets an instrumental role always at the service of the well-being of all people and the reproduction of life, and also of the sustainability of our environment. Economic is the form of economy that we must push and use before the elements or entities which seem to be their main goal. That's why we have to confess the importance of this radical economy. It is true that the entities of this kind are more and more known; it is true that they are more numerous, and that in every sense their social benefits are more and more widely diffused in the whole society. It is true, however, that many labours have been made in this sphere have been owing to all manner of agents, that is to say, the work they have done and continue to do. I would even like to take advantage of today's work to confess to all these agents, even to those who are in society and those who are in it, and especially to encourage the financial economy. I won't name them all in case of a chance to forget somebody. Returning to the other proposition, as we are discussing this afternoon, we must say that we agree with the two points which are demanded: On the one hand, with the origin of the Social Economy Council, we believe it is necessary to encourage this kind of transformive economy, and to fulfil the function of counsel associated with it. You've got to go beyond the management of economic society in order to develop socially. And I'm saying, "OKAOKA, that we agree with this proposition, especially not because we have developed the Law of the Economy of Society, but because we also see it this way from the EH Union." I'd like to know if you'd like to know what's going to happen to you. At the present day, however, there is no representation of the social economy and social economy, such as the Council of Profession. It is essential to collect EH to have even the point of view of these programmes, or measures, which design and start the profession. But we must remember, from a veto of Confebask, that these agents are not now represented in any such organism, or in a profession so important. On the other hand, even with the second point, we agree, which is i.e. In like manner, I would take advantage to show that we are not agreed with the whole of the law of the Economy of society, as I have said before, or as I intended to express it; But, we believe, in a catalogue, according to the principle of socialonomy and economics, the information of the entities which offer services or products in the market would also contribute greatly to promote, to promote, to promote, to promote, to this kind of economy. Yes, in the public sector, even in private, at the time of a careful purchase, it would make it very easy to have such a collection, and such a market, where the entities work to be of this kind. So we agree with the request. In our correction we said that the entities, which follow the principles of the solidary economy, are important, and that two kinds are included or proposed in this council, but, as we say, "Jutos pero no revueltos," and each of them is different from his principles. And that's why we made our correction to ask for the entity of the solidary economy. This is, indeed, the best of the opinions of the collected EH, but also the proclamation of many and many. So we're gonna protect our correction, and I'd ask the rest of the teams to vote for our corrections from here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Passing the teams that don't run... Mist must not speak. Basque Socialists, Mr. Ichaso, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u122	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, first of all, I want to say that our group has not tabled an amendment because it is going to decline Mr Barrio's offer to us today, and we are not going to support the initiative. And then I'm going to briefly explain the reasons why we don't. Firstly, in the justification given by the proposer, as has already been stated here, to Act No. 5/2011 on Social Economy. Let us remember that this is the first social economy law to be developed in the European context. First law. That is, when laws are developed, then, in comparative law, they can always be improved, obviously, but this is the first law, in the European context, that is made of social economy. And, as Mr Barrio has acknowledged, it is done under the auspices of a socialist government. Therefore, it is also a legacy and an inheritance of Mr Zapatero. Heresy which, as Mr Barrio has also acknowledged, has not had the fortune to be developed regularly, despite having an absolute majority to do so. With this, Mr Barrio, it is clear that your sensitivity to the social economy does not agree with that of your party. At least this is what it looks like. What he proposes is the creation of a council for the social economy. Well, first of all, the law already legally defines who makes up the social economy, and by establishing in a assessed way what kind of entities make up the social economy, obviously, that is a legal concept that does not admit subjectivisms like those that have been heard here, that they can be met from the point of view of the solidarity economy, which is a much broader concept and in the absence of a more precise realization, but in the matter of the social economy it is clear which entities make up this social economy. It speaks of cooperatives, it speaks of mutuals, it speaks of foundations, of associations with an economic activity, labor societies, insertion companies, special employment centers, co-fraternities of fishermen, agricultural transformation societies, and singular entities, such as the Eleven, which can also be created... Of course, we understand that they are entities of a very different nature. You will already tell me, Mr Barrio, even though it is a social economy, what matters a voluntary social security institution can have in common with a fellow fishermen. In the beginning little. Because, as we will see below, we all believe that they are well and duly represented institutionally. And why do I say that? Because right now, social economy entities are represented in the Basque field in the following consultative bodies: the Economic and Social Council, the Basque Council for Social Services, the Basque Industrial Security Council, the Basque Council for Social Inclusion, the Permanent Sectoral Commission for the Family, the Basque Council for Security and Labour Health, the Basque Statistical Council, the Basque Consumer Institute, the Advisory Committee on Consumption, the Forum for the Integration and Participation of Immigrants, the Forum for Agricultural and Food Innovation, the Port Advisory Council, the Consultative Body for Ports and Maritime Affairs, the Consultative Council for Rural Development, the Basque Council for Development Cooperation, the Basque Council for Voluntary. So the social economy, today, we understand that it does have an important institutional participation in the consultative bodies. You have it, that's a fact, Mr. Barrio. Of course, from the point of view of creating a new body, which already provides for it, in fact, Law 5/2011 itself (a body which, although it was also already covered by the Cooperatives Act of 1999, has not been developed by the Government, i.e. that this council for promotion has also not had a known articulation), we understand that here, in the Basque sphere, entities that understand the social economy have representation and participation in advisory bodies, institutionally speaking, we believe appropriate. It is possible, as you say, Mr Barrio, that in the future, in the future, an organ of this nature may have a place, but by then it has been necessary to clearly delineate what are social economy enterprises or what are, for example – as Euskal Herria Bildu proposes this afternoon – solidarity economy enterprises. For example, France, which followed in legislation, did make a law that was called "social economy and solidarity". Of course, when the concept encompasses, let's say, a larger universe, that forces us to specify and understand that there are more entities that can be part of it. Of course, they're also talking about the catalogue. As far as the social economy is concerned, we do not believe that a catalogue is necessary, although it is true that scholars and academics talk about it, but the entities that make up the social economy are perfectly valued, who make up that social economy, who make up it, and, although they appear in different fields, it is possible... For example, special employment centres or integration firms are effectively within the scope of Lanbide and are subject to state legislation. This is not the case, for example, with cooperatives, which can operate under our own legislation. So, what we believe is that, being as sensitive as any other social economy group... This is demonstrated by the fact that this law was sponsored by the Socialists, by the fact that I am going to ignore what the budgetary allocations under the Socialist Government in the Autonomous Community were, and that would bear witness to the fact that it is not for lack of sensitivity that we reject your proposal today, Mr Barrio. We simply understand that at this time it would not be effective or efficient..., or it would not, let's say, give rise to the objectives that you supposedly propose, because it would be a council in which very different entities would be present in consultative bodies that are their own, and where they are involved as part of what is their own activity or their own legal formulation, which can fit very differently. Well, I have nothing more to say. That's really the reason. It is not that it seems to us a strange pretension; what we believe is that today there are other ways of promoting the social economy. Specifically, in the area of special employment centres, it is still waiting for our group to see that the Government, about to complete the legislature, operates and installs the said register, so that social-based initiatives that want to be transformed into special employment centres, which is one of the major families of the social economy, can operate and be activated. That's really encouraging!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u123	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Eubertarians, Sir Faraway, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u124	Chief of Parliament, Mr. Chief, Congressman, good evening to all of you. Mr Barrio, by means of this non-law proposal you urge the creation of the Basque council for the promotion of the social economy, as well as the drawing up of the catalogue according to the development capacities granted by the State law 5/2011 of 29 March, for the promotion of the social economy. I do not know whether this council for the promotion of the social economy will end up doing it or not, I do not have the magic wand and I dare not put my hand in the fire for nothing, but is Mr Barrio trying to tell us, and by Mr Barrio the People's Group, that the new milestone, the new frontier for the promotion of the social economy in the Basque Autonomous Community is the creation of this council for the promotion of the social economy and that alone? Does Mr Barrio mean to us, and through Mr Barrio the Group of the European People's Party, that the new milestone, the new frontier for the promotion of the social economy in the Basque Autonomous Community, involves the creation of a model which has been left in standby and which sleeps the dream of the righteous at the state level? I would remind you that in committee, among other interesting contributions, we heard that the promotion council had not met for three years, especially when we have a sufficiently institutionalized sector, although it is true that by families, and so does the social economy. To date, it works reasonably well. Some will say that because I say this I am doing a self-congratulation exercise. I think I'm describing reality. Also especially when we have a group, which by its acronym Spanish responds to the name of EGES, which in a letter of reply to a petition for appearance made to them by his lordship replied that they were in germinal phase and that they had nothing to contribute. And especially when there is no need or concern in the sector, beyond the interesting intellectual contributions that we hear in committee today. Look, Mr Barrio, we often talk from politics about the need to save a number of entities, entities or bodies. And I believe that, in those economies, as important as eliminating those that do not serve, do not function or have surpassed the social reason for which they were created, is not to create new ones based on the creation of artificial needs. Our group therefore does not consider it necessary, in the short or medium term, to set up this Basque council to promote the social economy. As far as the catalogue is concerned, well, it is a well-known position that our group does not like the basic legislation of the State very much, but make no mistake: it is not that we do not like it because it is the basic legislation and the State (we accept it as rules of the game), but because with its use, usually abusive, the Basque self-government is surrounded by the back door. And we meet and we will comply with all the rules, and also with this, but we are clear that what we are not going to do is to urge the Basque Government to do the duties that must be done by some ministry in Madrid. And they will come to me saying that we throw balls out, that we always blame Madrid..., but no, read the tenor of article 6.1 (i.e., first paragraph 6) of this law that we bring out today and that it says: "The Ministry of Labour, after the report of the Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy and in coordination with the autonomous communities, will draw up and keep updated a catalogue of the different types of entities that are integral to the social economy, taking into account the principles set out in this law, in a way coordinated with the existing catalogues in the autonomic field". As for information, we have records by families of the social economy: registers of cooperatives, labour societies, mutual societies, foundations and associations, among others. I don't know if that's enough for your honor. I do not know whether by joining such records, and therefore the information contained in all of them, you would consider it catalogued, but in any case, that each stick endures its candle, Mr Barrio. We consider the existing registers sufficient, and if the Ministry of Labour wishes to draw up a catalogue, as stipulated by law, that draws from the project, that it works, that it elaborates it, and that it tells us what information it wants and how. And we believe that there will be no problem for proper coordination, for collaboration and for the information that is needed, but in the meantime, we are not going to urge the Basque Government to do the duties that belong to some ministry in Madrid. As for the EH Collector, I sometimes think that we don't concentrate on things the same. Here is another proposition of the law which Mr. Barrio has presented in the name of the Popula party, and which demands that a government should be developed. This state legislation does not speak of the solid economy. Maybe it's a pity, but he doesn't talk about the solid economy. And what you're doing with this correction is by adding a correction to the legal proposition that doesn't quite follow the subject, which is like adding the solidary economy after what you call social economy, just like adding nothing in this context. We know that the highest, most puristic, conciliatory concept which is now used in the doctrine is that of the solid economy, and we find it interesting. And if we were to begin using it, we could use other expressions, such as a sector without design of profit, a economy of general interest, civil society, which are used in many countries. But here it is not a question of going into the question, but of entering into the question, where time is scarce. Here we stand in the presence of a political text which demands that a legal text, which does not speak of the solid economy, should be developed; and, although it is discursive or intellectually well, your contribution is quite useless in the context of the discussion today. But not the protection you give to another just proposal. We're talking about models a lot, aren't we? Here, in order to improve this field of reality, the example of EH Collectors, and the model that has failed in the State, or the example which has been abandoned, by a semantic contribution, and by a common consent, by the side which he has let fall into the State. Funny, really odd. We have once known many examples to you: and, as to the promotion of the social economy, we must conclude that your example is Françoise of State. If, on the other hand, one reads the law of the 5/2011 State in which his applications lead us to this day, he can see that if the law really has anything strange to do with it, it is a regulation, which is most conformable to the discussion we are now discussing. Xedapen horren lehen paragraphan, honako hau esaten: "The promotion, dissemination and training activities referred to in Article 8.3, as well as the functioning of the Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy provided for in Article 9, shall be financed by the appropriations actually available to the Ministry of Labour and Immigration for the financial year 2010, without being able to entail a net increase in expenditure as set out in the immediate action plan for 2010 and for successive years in the austerity plan of the General State Administration 2011-2013". Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the content of this provision, where the financing of the promotion of the social economy is left to the dawn of the Austerity Plan, and in relation to article 4 of the same law, where the primacy of people and the social purpose over capital is established as the first of the guiding principles of the social economy; in accordance with the lack of regulatory development of the law, as well as the nullity of the promotion of the social economy, beyond a few social acts in the Villa and Court, and observing the evolution that has been given to the main tool of this law, which is nothing other than the Council for the Promotion of the Social Economy, I believe that we could conclude that this so-called State law for the promotion of the social economy has become to a large extent a law for the promotion of the postureum around the social economy. And in that, Mr. Barrio, you must recognize that you go ahead of everyone. But be careful, because Bildu wants to challenge you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Passing on the answers, Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Urrutia. Look, on those issues, I'm willing to argue with anyone. Unfortunately, it wasn't you. You've stayed behind. Absolutely, he's left behind. And I would have liked this subject to have been led by you, because you would have had an unconditional ally in the People's Group and in this Parliament on this issue. And it was a pity that Mr. Aborto or Mr. Toña could not have led him, but I would have liked it. And I wanted to help them throughout this legislature, and the socialists in the last legislature, but they don't leave. Well, well, I'll do what I can, and I'll keep insisting. And I assure you that in this matter of the council of the social economy we will see the lehendakari (don't know what it will be) chairing the first council for the promotion of the social economy. We'll see it, eh!, and that day I'll remember you, Mr. Urrutia, and we'll celebrate it. I'll remind you, and I'll invite you to whatever you want to take. [[Barres]] I agree with EH Bildu's approach to this issue. We don't see it wrong. I mean, it's a bit of a terminological debate. The solidarity economy is social economy, that is, it is true. That is why Mr Itxaso has referred to French legislation... and, well, there are formulas, and we will channel these formulas, we have no doubt. Unfortunately, we can't do it now. It is difficult, indeed, already defined social economy entities, yet to expand them a little further in what is not so defined, which is in the solidarity economy. But, well, I say again, we are working in this Parliament on a third-sector social bill. That is, as we are working, we are also on the table with those instruments. So... It also seems to me that the position of the economic majority of this Parliament, which is made up of the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, on a question such as this, has essentially to do with employment, with productivity, with economic development formulas based on social entrepreneurship. And unfortunately I have seen that approach a little sad, but, I say again, it will come. He's coming. We wanted to get a little ahead of ourselves and have that job done, but it's coming. And I have recognized Mr Itxaso: the first Social Economy Act we voted for, the Zapatero Act, because there was an agreement in the General Courts on something that was necessary, defining the social economy, its entities and the possibilities for development. I have also acknowledged that it has not been sufficiently developed, although there have been other instruments of social economy approved in the Congress of Deputies during the tenth legislature. In any case, you have to take a few steps further. But we too have always boasted, the Basques, that in social economy we were ahead of others. We were ahead of others, and now we have opportunities to continue and we are missing, from our point of view, some opportunities. I say again, this may not be the most relevant. For us it is more important that we do not present ourselves, or that it will not be possible to pass in this Parliament the Basque Cooperatives Act, which was necessary. In that sense, it is true that we are losing, and that must be acknowledged. In this legislature we have lost positions. And, Mr Itxaso, you tell me tips where social economy entities are, but they are not specific social economy councils, no basic issues are discussed. That is to say, when we talked about that formula, about that council for the promotion of the social economy, we wanted something to focus on, and we also wanted it to bring together precisely those entities that are quite heterogeneous. But you will tell me: you will not tell me that in Confebask the entities are not heterogeneous! Regardless of the company formula that they adopt (anonymous societies, labor societies...), after all they are bakeries, greenhouses, a quarry, a steelworks... I mean, they're different production formulas. So what happens to social economy entities! They are different production formulas, but in any case, with what is important, which is productivity, which is job generation. That is what we have wanted to move and bring to a definitive body. Because, in fact, the social economy will be in fifteen councils, but in none definitive, besides in most of them with a fairly residual character. That is to say, in that sense, we wanted to give him a caress that, of course, has not been given so far. And don't tell me, Mr. Urrutia, that the ministry, that... No, let's see, let's lead. We have heard that from the Lehendakari many times, and from the Economic Development Advisor, who in Euskadi we have to lead policies. Well, not here! No, no! Here we are staying behind. On a matter for which, of course, we had a chance to function... It is a law of the Congress of Deputies, of the General Courts, but it gave us a golden opportunity to move forward. Of course, the approach you make to us is a racist approach, it is an approach of retrogression. And you've made mention of EGES. EGES is a network, it's like a private club that is currently settling down trying to aggregate some common interests. No, no, no. We were talking to him about an institutional council, led by the institutions, with the presence of the institutions and the sector, and, of course, about promoting specific actions for things like those that Mr Itxaso asked us to do.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u127	Please finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u128	Yeah, I'm done right now. Mr Itxaso was making a mockery of the government because he failed to comply with the integration companies. For a counsel as God commands, to promote the social economy, would have taken letters on the matter, surely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Zulaika the walker.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u130	...I'll do it from my seat. Mr Urrutia has told us that simply our amendment, which we proposed as an additional amendment, does not incorporate anything new, which does not... Well, in short, it's almost useless. It seems to us that terminology is very important, because on top of it we think it goes beyond a mere term. Because we understand – and this is the case – that the solidarity economy, although born from the trunk of the social economy, is not the same, and the principles that govern each other are not the same. But it is true that we understand that a council that brings together all of them, the social economy and those within the solidarity economy, is necessary. You were talking about the EGES network. Why has the EGES network been created? Because they know and are aware that together they are stronger, and that, instead of walking each, each type of all these entities that bind or that are within the social economy, on the one hand cooperatives, on the other hand special centers, on the other hand..., together they can make more strength and grow more, and raise awareness of society. That is why EGES has been created. And that's why we understand, beyond... I said this in the first speech: we do not support this initiative that Carmelo Barrio presented today because we are in accordance with the law. I said, we're not 100 percent in accordance with the law. We believe that it would have to go beyond that law, and that in many respects it would be short; that the indicator principles would have to go beyond that, and that, beyond specifying by legal form, that law would be short. That's why I said it's not because the law says it; it's because EH Bildu believes that advice and a catalogue are needed. And not only EH Bildu: the agents within this area are asking us to do so. That is why we agree with this initiative, and that is why we will support our amendment, which goes beyond the original amendment. And that is why we ask the other groups to support our amendment. Just that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Zulaika. Don't talk about it. Far away, sir, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u132	Yes, good afternoon again. I'll be short. You speak, Mr. Barrio, that you would have preferred me to lead this. Well, I don't know if I'm the right one to lead this. He also said that since I don't lead him, you will lead him. I don't think that's going to be the case either. He says we'll see a lehendakari inaugurate the Basque promotion council. Well, I wish. And you say that we will celebrate it, and that you will pay something. Well, you won't be the only one who pays for something. But, seriously, this thing about us not moving forward, that we're going behind... No, no, No, we're not going behind the scenes, nor have we missed any chance. I believe that in this community, precisely in this one, we are moving forward on the social economy. That we could incorporate the terminology proposed by Mr Zulaika? Of course it is, and you could think about it. But, to my mind, that wasn't exactly what we were talking about. Every time we talk about the social economy, Mr Barrio, I appreciate that you have a lot of desire to talk about the cooperative law, and, well, I don't have any problems either. I think it is sad, it also saddens me that we have not been able to analyse the law of cooperatives in this Parliament, but it gives me that the maximum Ignatian has been practiced which says that "in times of turmoil do not move". And that is neither lack of idea nor lack of project, nor lack of leadership, nor stillness, nor immobility. It simply seems to me that it is only prudence. You repeat yourself in the idea that we are behind. Why? Why are we in the back? Why not approve a Basque council today to promote the social economy? No, no, I believe that, fortunately, in the social economy, as in others, but in the social economy, we are ahead. And the fact that, according to the latest data, this sector covers 42% of employment in the Basque Autonomous Community shows this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. Faraway. Now that the discussion has ended, we have put the original text of the proposition of Euscala as the Potula Group. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; 10; counters, 62; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u134	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the entire EH Collect Group correction. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 72; 19; the contrary, 43; the whites, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-05-05.u135	So he didn't accept it. Then, before it's over, I'll read an institutional statement about the day of the press's freedom. "One. The Basque parliament, which is the day of the World of the Press's Freedom, agrees again with those principles which led the UN to name this day 25 years ago, that "prentice is free, manifold, independent, and independent of all democratic society, and that it is the fundamental element of all democratic society," and with which to encourage the liberty of the press in the world. "Bill. The Basque Parliament defends freedom of expression and opinion as fundamental values of democracy and stresses the importance of having different information options as a reflection of plurality and an instrument to adequately inform citizens. In this regard, it considers the work of media professionals, as intermediaries between this House and the rest of society, to be indispensable, to which they are accountable and help to interpret our decisions. "Three. The Basque parliament has given us to show that, for all the consequences of its crude economy produced in so many sectors, it has often been said that, for the sake of all the different kinds of operations caused by the crude economics and experiments of the whole of Europe and states, it is precisely because this precogation directly affects their journalal work, and also its responsibility for the closing of the interrognetrations and self-determinations of the journalists, so that the chances are strictly limited, and rather than from a mathematical point of view, in accordance with the political and economic cultures of science. In addition, he shows his solidarity to the professionals of El Mundo's Esscal edition, which is the last piece of information that has announced his disappearance." Just because the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was six and sixteen in the evening.
