ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. First point in theme list: "Euscal Autonomia in the Euscal Erinium between 1978 and 1999 the full corrections which have been submitted to the bill of law-suits which have undergone the sub-relations of human rights and the subversions of human rights. The discussion and the vote. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I'm in favor of taking advantage of every chance this legislation offers us to try to keep coming closer. I know that the bill of law which we present to-day penetrates into a delicate area, but I am convinced that it will give us an opportunity of making a small step, and we can make it a very strong step. There are different views on this bill. Fear and distrust also appeared. However, if we can join in a meeting, we will be able to advance on the least points of harmony which society requires. We are facing the final phase of the bill on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations caused by unlawful repression. This bill reflects all the work done over the past year and a half by both the Basque Government and this House. Today is an important day, one more step in the quest for peace and coexistence in this country. This bill is part of the Peace and Co-existence Plan adopted in November 2013. Of the six "management of the past" initiatives, two are highlighted: The first is support and reparation for victims of terrorism, an initiative that continues the Government's policy during four legislatures and takes as a reference the Basque Act on Victims of Terrorism, adopted by this Parliament in 2008. The second is the support, recognition and reparation of victims without protection under the current legislation. This second subparagraph provides that the Government shall create the necessary legal tools to develop and expand the process of recognition and redress to victims of human rights violations because of actions of unlawful counter-terrorism, the protection of which is not within the scope of the current legislation. The adoption of the bill that we are presenting today is part of the Peace and Co-existence Plan, but finds its precedent in 2011. More specifically, in the no-law proposal adopted by this Parliament on 31 March 2011 on victims of human rights violations and other unjust suffering produced in a context of politically motivated violence. This proposal called on the Government to articulate reparation measures for these victims. Thus, on 12 June 2012, the Basque Government adopted Decree 107/2012 on the declaration and reparation of victims of unjust suffering as a result of the violation of their human rights, which occurred between 1960 and 1978. This legislature, on 29 April 2015, the Government announced a first draft for a preliminary draft law that would give continuity to Decree 107/2012. Subsequently, on 11 June, this Parliament, with the favourable votes of PNV, EH Bildu, PSE and PP, urged the Basque Government to "continue to develop policies for the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations caused by abuse of power or unlawful use of police violence that have been promoted since the previous legislature". Following this agreement, on 11 December I signed the decree of initiation for the preparation of the preliminary draft law. This year, on 20 February, an act of institutional recognition was held in Donostia for the victims covered by Decree 107/2012, which allowed the recognition of 187 persons as victims of human rights violations caused by abuse of power or unlawful use of police violence between 1960 and 1978. Finally, on 26 April, the Governing Council adopted the bill that was referred to this Parliament and we are defending it today. This bill involves the continuation, by means of a legal instrument with the rank of law, of the path begun four years ago with Decree 107/2012, which involved the recognition and reparation of victims from 1960 to 1978. This bill is based on the doctrine of international treaties and agreements: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the 1966 United Nations Covenants and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms of the Council of Europe. This foundation has made it possible to advance the definition and protection of a number of fundamental rights of the person: the right to life and physical, mental, moral and sexual integrity, rights that constitute a common democratic minimum and an indisputable and timeless area of protection. The need for this law is determined by the evident existence of victims of serious human rights violations that affect the right to life and integrity that have not been recognized or repaired so far. It is ethical and democratic imperative to create an instrument for the recognition of these victims, who exist, have the right to truth, justice and reparation and have not been recognized by existing legislation. I am convinced that if we can only share the principle of superiority of the victim, we shall arrive in that vast consent. This principle places the chief reference to the victim's reality. The reality of the victim is the question of its truth, of justice, and of the rights of observation. The rest is of lower rank. The wide Michael, José Antonio Lasa, the Old José Ignacio, Gladys del Covere or Martha Barandian, and perhaps some of the names known to us in Victoriano Aguiriano. I could go on giving more names, maybe less known. All these people are dozens of people who have died during the 1978s and 1999 watering of human rights. The question is: Are those victims here or aren't they? The answer is yes, if there were those victims. There are families who have suffered incurable damage, who have suffered the unjust and violent loss of a close relative. One second question: have these victims been accepted or not? You know, as I know, the answer to that is negative. Those victims are not yet accepted. If these victims exist, and if they are not admitted, our ethical and democratic necessity is to solve this problem. That's the purpose of this bill. The presentation of this legal project closes the circle of public commitment to life. The message of society is very clear: All terrorism, violence, or the immersion of human rights, lose all restraint from the unjust suffering of each victim. Each victim represents the injustice of all the victims. From the principle of centrality of the victim there is no place for the theory of conflict, or for oppositions, or for any action or other. There are no violences compared to other violences, and some victims to other victims. It is not possible to minimize the violence of human rights in comparison of others. The total disapprobation of human rights is the remuneration of each victim. Mikel Zabalza, José Antonio Lasa, José Ignacio Zabala, Gladys del Estal or the marriage Maria Ángeles Barandiaran-Victorian Aguirian are names of victims that we remember. Between 1978 and 1999 there were many more. The question is, do these victims exist or do they not exist? Yes, and therefore there are families that have suffered irreversible damage as a result of the unjust and violent loss of a close family member. A second question: are these victims recognized? Has their unjust suffering been repaired in any official or institutional way? We are well aware that these victims are not yet recognized. These victims exist and are not recognized. Our obligation is to remedy this anomaly and this is the purpose of this bill. Its content takes advantage of the experience of Decree 107/2012 to introduce improvements that make more solvent and guarantee legal certainty in the future development of the same political will. The importance of the content requires a legal instrument of the highest rank to shape the willingness to meet the debt contracted with the dignity of the victims. Victim policies must be based on the principle of equality. Since 2008 the recognition and reparation of victims of terrorism has been regulated by legal instruments with a legal status, it now seems necessary to adopt a similar tool. The draft law provides for the recognition and reparation of victims through an administrative process, which is the responsibility of the Basque Government. United Nations resolution 60/147 states that the victim will be recognized and remedied regardless of whether the author has been identified, apprehended, tried or convicted. Article 2 of the European Convention on Compensation for Victims states that reparation "will be granted "even if the perpetrator cannot be prosecuted or punished". In the case of victims, in accordance with the doctrine of international treaties and agreements, the administrative process is possible without the need for a judicial judgement. The first thing is to take care of the victims. Its recognition and reparation does not require criminal proceedings, but rather an administrative process. The Government is fully competent in this administrative process. This policy of recognition and reparation is enshrined in the competition titles of the Statute of Gernika: Article 10.12 (social assistance), Article 10.39 (Community development) and Article 18 (health). The objective of the Basque Government is to guarantee legal certainty. Under this law, the Government does not engage in unconstitutionality, nor does it invade the jurisdiction of the State, nor does it substitute for criminal jurisdiction. We comply with the obligation to redress inequality, we make reparation from social assistance and community development for inequalities resulting from human rights violations in the lives of families and victims. This statement is better understood if we place the victim's reality as a reference of higher value. This principle has a profound pedagogical value for memory and coexistence. Where there is a victim who has suffered unfair damage, there is always an act of critical recognition of what happened, an act of reparation. The introduction of this bill closes the circle of public commitment to complete the construction of coexistence from a global and future perspective. The message is clear: all terrorism, violence or human rights violations are delegitimized from the unjust suffering of each victim. Each victim represents the injustice of all victims. From the beginning of the victim's centrality there is no theory of conflict or of the opposing sides to justify or legitimize one or the other action. It is not possible to equate one violence with another or to compensate one victim with another. Nor can the seriousness of some human rights violations be diluted or minimized in relation to others. The recognition of each victim represents a total delegitimization of all human rights violations and an autonomous and specific delegitimization of each form of terrorism or violence. I believe that the victim's principle of centrality is a factor of union and not of division. It is a factor of coexistence and future. It is a principle with normative force in international law, also in state and autonomous law. The bill we are presenting is better and more perfectable. However, I have no doubt that it fits fully into our competitive framework, as defined by the Statute of Gernika. We have drafted this bill with the aim of ensuring legal certainty, as well as avoiding any remedies that hinder the adoption and implementation of measures to recognize and redress victims. The construction of memory requires critical recognition of the existence of these human rights violations as well. It requires offering protection to all victims. This is the reason that justifies the need for this law. It is a necessary piece for the construction of a critical memory of the past and the normalization of future coexistence. I shall end by remarking the principle of superiority of the victim. This principle has a great pedagogical value for memory and for the future of life. Every time there's a victim who's suffered wrong, there's always an act of critical confession of what happened, a touch of observation. The message of building co-operation is very clear: All terrorism, violence, or infusion of human rights, is decriminateed by the suffering of each victim. The principle of superiority in the victim is the unity process, it is a means of association and of future life. The legislation of the International, State, and Member of the Union is a principle of regulatory force. This bill of law can be improved and improved, but it has complete legal security. This bill of law unites with its own jurisdiction defined in the State of Guernica. This country, Euskadi, must continue to make progress on the path of peace and coexistence. We institutions and political parties have a duty to face this process with height of vision and global vision, the duty to continue to move forward step by step. This law is one more step; we will have to continue to take more steps towards peace, coexistence and human rights. I sincerely believe that we have made a great deal of progress. To a large extent, also thanks to the work of this Parliament for years. The future of Euskadi needs a definitive peace based on memory, the recognition of the victims, the recovery of coexistence and the collective conviction that killing was wrong and cannot happen again. The normalization of life requires protection from victims. In order to build memory, we must critically admit that these waters of human rights have been the same. This is a fundamental reason, which justifys the necessity of this law; it is an indispensable piece to normalize cooperation, and to form the critical memory of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u2	Thank you, Mr. President. The Mistto-UPyD team has the power to make the word a full correction. Mr. Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u3	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselors, Mr. Lehendakari. I will make a number of preliminary considerations and then explain the reasons for introducing this amendment in its entirety to the bill on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations in contexts of unlawful repression in the Basque Country between 1978 and 1999, which is now being defended. First of all, I must say that the bill was introduced in haste and hastily, for the party's electoral and party interests in the government, the Basque Nationalist Party. It draws attention to the fact that both the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party have prioritized the adoption of forced marches of this law to others that could be much more important to Basque society, such as the law of transparency, the law of the Basque public sector, the law of employment, the law of public employment, among many that would have a greater impact on the lives of Basque citizens. We find it regrettable that the Basque Nationalist Party has cheated on a possible amendment of the Rules of this House to enable January and July on a permanent basis and yet, in this case, when it has been interested in simple electoral interests, it has forced the House's own Rules of Procedure to shorten the time limits of a law that electorally interests it, while it has paralysed laws, papers and commissions throughout the entire legislature. The decision of the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu to prevent the extension of the deadline for the submission of amendments requested by two political groups can only be understood as what it is: another political cacicada, mainly led by the Basque Nationalist Party. The decision to violate the rights of two parliamentary groups seems unacceptable to us; because this bill has also taken years to come because of the wish of Mr Jonan Fernández and the Lehendakari himself, since the law could also be passed during the first months of the next parliamentary term, with calm and maximum consensus and with all legal guarantees, without having to force deadlines and the House's own rules of procedure. Thus, in our view, the House has finally been given a half-way job; a project not sufficiently worked out, with a large number of unresolved legal doubts and competing conflicts that, if not resolved, would finally invalidate the law. All laws must be legally secure, but this, in particular, taking into account their content, more than any other, and not done enough, has not been done enough to make the bill a legally secure bill. In addition, this draft law, as it is originally drafted, supports, in our view, a quasi-judicial action by the assessment body that is reflected in it. There is an invasion of competing titles reserved exclusively for the State. The recognition of human rights violations outside judicial proceedings and even in contradiction with acquittals undermines the principle of exclusive jurisdictional function of the State. The decisions of the Valuation Commission and also the right to the truth contained in article 8 may violate the fundamental right to honour, effective judicial guardianship and the presumption of innocence of members of the State Security Forces and Bodies allegedly related to the cases under consideration. The power of the Valuation Commission to require, as it is said, other administrations to have prior data or reports for the processing of files implies possible obligations on entities and staff under the General Administration of the State, where the constitutional principle of cooperation does not provide for over-compete. The draft leaves everything open so that this Evaluation Commission can qualify as a victim without all guarantees, thus giving itself a letter of nature to an extra-judicial procedure to decide on issues that may constitute criminal acts, issues that the Spanish Constitution, in its article 117, reserves exclusively to the courts, one of the pillars of the rule of law. The competence to investigate and impose penalties on criminal acts rests solely with judges. Even the Evaluating Commission is empowered to re-examine previous judicial cases, including those resulting in acquittal, in the process of victim recognition. We may find that the right to honour may be violated by police officers or others involved who were at the time acquitted by the courts, since the body, when reviewing the case and considering the plaintiff victim, results in an extrajudicial conviction for which the alleged damage to which he has been recognized as a victim was caused. Not to mention the violation of the right to the presumption of innocence, which here would be totally violated by acting outside the guarantees granted by the jurisdictional procedure enshrined in the Constitution. Furthermore, the concept of "illegal repression" contained in the text means that it is a misconception, unclear, confusing and very problematic, and so, by the way, has been taken up by other parliamentary groups in some of their amendments, both in whole and in part. The law gives for certain victims and facts that have not been clarified and demonstrated, and this is also reflected by some other groups in some of their partial amendments. Inexplicably, moreover, the legal text quotes, in our view unnecessarily, the victims of ETA terrorism, which we believe is out of place, unnecessary and confusing. Moreover, it makes no sense to recognize by administrative means, as the law claims, the existence of human rights violations when the judicial process is open. Article 2.2 of the Bill states: "For the purposes of this Act, a violation of human rights in a context of unlawful repression is considered to have occurred if the following conditions are met: "(a) It has occurred in a context of politically motivated violence. "(b) It has been carried out in a context of action or action for the purpose of unlawful repression, and in which it could have participated either in the performance of its functions or outside the exercise of its functions; or private individuals acting in a group in an isolated, individual or uncontrolled manner, without the need to establish a specific relationship of guilt on the constituent acts of such violations." This latter expression is another reason for UPyD to present this amendment in its entirety. These are the considerations I wanted to make in relation to the way in which this bill has been introduced and also in relation to the content of it, and the reasons for our full amendment. Having said that, and since these amendments in their entirety are to be rejected by a majority of the groups, I will be taking part in the presentation so that all these issues, all these legal doubts, all these competing doubts can be clarified. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u4	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. The Representative of the American Basque Group has the word to prevent its full correction. Mr. Barrio.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u5	Good morning, egun on. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, councillors, councillors. This has not been the best way to address a complex, politically complicated, legal bill that needed a broader parliamentary space, more possibilities for non-government groups. It also serves this amendment in its entirety as a protest against the roll applied by the Bureau of this House with regard to the failure to grant any time limit for the extension of amendments, an unusual situation in this Parliament and also an unusual situation in parliamentary practice. The delays of the Government are paid by the parliamentary groups, the haste of the Government is assumed by the others. And the Bureau of the House, protecting the government above parliamentarians. There have been bills, proposals for legislation... Basque Statistical Plan: two extensions, almost a year of processing. Land Pollution Bill: two extensions, one year and one month of processing. Women farmers: two enlargements, one year of processing. Amendment of the Elections to the Basque Parliament Act: three extensions, one year and seven months of processing. Public shows: three extensions, one year and seven months of processing. Addictions: three enlargements, one year and three months. Municipal: three extensions, one year and five months. Emergency management: two extensions, one year and seven months. Third social sector: three enlargements, one year and two months. Legal service: two extensions, 11 months. Foundations: three enlargements, 11 months. Proposals for legislation. Popular legislative initiative: four enlargements, two years and nine months. Housing: four extensions, two years and one month. Status of public office: four extensions, one year and five months. Dignified death: four extensions (then we will pass the law), two years and two months of processing. The bill we are debating: zero enlargements, three months. Predictably, the 28th will be approved: three months of processing. Until the express law of the repeal of the feast of the Statute of 25 October had two extensions of time and six months of processing. Even that express law that was so much needed to be passed because it was so essential to this country. Of course, we must protest: it is a violation of the rights of parliamentarians. The Basque Nationalist Party itself has submitted seven requests for extension of amendments, which have been granted, to proposals for legislation. In some cases, twice the same. And even some proposed law that is not going to be seen in this legislature and that takes a lot of time in process, such as the reform of the Basque Court of Public Accounts. That is intolerable for parliamentary purposes, it is simply intolerable, and we want to protest from here. And we do not want to dilute the importance of the content of this law, because, gentlemen of the PNV, you have violated the rights of parliamentarians in this House. And, as Mr Maneiro said, we could well have continued with the study, we could well have continued in the next parliamentary term. It is not a matter of time, it is a question of parliamentary quality, and here the parliamentary quality has failed, Mr Lehendakari, gentlemen of the Basque Nationalist Party. In another order of affairs – in the same, but already in the areas that affect the draft law –, matters of form and substance cause the People's Parliamentary Group to submit a comprehensive amendment to the draft law on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations in contexts of unlawful repression in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country between 1978 and 1999 and to request the return of the draft law to the Basque Government. The Basque Government has sent to the House in the final part of the legislature a bill that starts, as was recalled, from parliamentary commitments calling, as a fundamental element, for the search for consensus for reparation and recognition of victims caused by human rights violations, issues on which we all want to work and we are all ready to work. The Executive has failed to place the debate on something as important as a bill of these characteristics with sufficient legal guarantees and sufficient time for parliamentarians to develop a comprehensive policy study and elaborate rigorous and based work on the possibility of the optimal search for instruments necessary to regulate the subject matter. Circumstances this acquires special complexity and difficulty due to a number of aspects that do not go unnoticed and that you all know. A bill of these characteristics takes time, Mr Lehendakari; you have had it. A bill of these characteristics requires time for study and analysis by parliamentary groups – which so claim it – and time for study and debate in paper, the only guarantee of effectiveness in the search for legal solutions from the negotiation of amendments and the only way to generate agreements and consensus. That's clear. We need to see the application of these issues in other laws. These issues have been implemented in other laws, we have worked and we have reached consensus and agreement. The next item is the agenda of this plenary session. The key element guiding our work must be to ensure legal certainty and to carry out a legislative package that does not run the risk of violating other higher standards, which would also lead to significant and undesirable political and social frustration. In this regard, legal experts, who participated in the work leading up to the opening of the amendment period, have emphasized these guarantees, the preservation of legal certainty, and have drawn attention to issues that the draft law did not clarify, to issues that the draft law went beyond legally or to aspects that were at serious risk of being appealed or annulled. The Basque Government has not done its job well and wants to transfer responsibility to the whole parliamentary arch. The precedent not only of Decree 426/2013 of 16 October, challenged by a decision of the Superior Court of the Basque Country, but also of the Provincial Law 16/2015 of the Parliament of Navarre tells us that this project also shares some characteristics: it is not yet based on certain legal certainty and required competence, issues that are very important. And that can be dealt with by bringing in an appropriate bill or by doing important parliamentary, legal, time-consuming, stability-consuming work to be sustained in parliamentary work, which is not going to happen. The entry in extremis in the Parliament Register of the bill has increased doubts as to legality and feasibility. And the need to have the time necessary to complete the normative analysis of the text has been certified with more legal arguments and legality that seek a guarantee of legal certainty through the preparation and subsequent debate of amendments. In addition, the frameworks defined as "context of political motivation" and "context of action for the purpose of unlawful repression", which underpin the scope of application and procedural action of the draft law, are basically unexplained and with a very poor justification that supports a quasi-judicial action of the regulated valuation body and the procedure designed in the norm. Attention is drawn to the absence of this bill from those victims who, hypothetically, resorting to what is considered a context of political violence, have suffered human rights violations as a result of the action of terrorists or street violence and who have not been considered victims of terrorism on the other hand, as well as from those threatened, victims of persecution by ETA, persons who have suffered situations that have caused them physical, psychological and moral damage of relevance and who do not fall into any category. It would therefore have been more appropriate to have opened the regulation to all the human rights violations that can be established. These issues already justify that the Basque People's Parliamentary Group, through this amendment, calls for the full refund of the bill on the recognition and reparation of victims of human rights violations between 1978 and 1999. But there are also many more issues in the legal debate, and – I say again what I said earlier – important legal doubts. This bill is based on budgets that we consider to differ to some extent, or that they can do so – and that is why it would be important to discuss it – with the rule of law that arises from the 1978 Constitution. The bill, as it is drafted – which is why we believe it should be worked on – may incur unconstitutionality insofar as it assigns functions specific to the criminal jurisdiction in the investigation of acts constituting offences punishable under the Criminal Code, thereby invading the reservation of this jurisdictional function (article 117 of the Constitution), which belongs only to judges, and is likely to result in violations of fundamental rights, such as those contained in articles 18 and 24 of the Spanish Constitution. Moreover, by establishing a regulation that has a clear procedural and jurisdictional nature, it may invade the exclusive competition titles of the State of article 149.1.5.a, 6a and 29a of the Spanish Constitution. And with regard to education, there is a risk that article 149.1.18 (a) and 29 (a) of the Constitution will be violated. In line with the above, some project forecasts could be affected and we could be discussing and discussing it in a sustained paper work to fix it in what we legally disagree. In line with the above, some project forecasts would be affected by unconstitutionality on both substantive and competitive grounds. Specifically, they would be as follows: Article 2(2). It has already been referred to before and I am not going to extend because we will already comment on it, I suppose, in the work of the paper. Article 8, which elaborates on the so-called right to the truth, because the dissemination of factual relationships that the Valuation Commission has found to be human rights violations may violate the fundamental right to honour article 18 of the Constitution and the effective judicial guardianship and the presumption of innocence of article 24 of the Constitution. Article 15(1), (2) and (4), concerning the investigation of the administrative procedure, also possibly in question. And some other issues that have to do with the State Security Forces and Corpses. In addition, the provisions governing a procedure in which human rights violations may be found outside the scope of judicial proceedings could violate the presumption of innocence under article 24 of the Constitution. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, intensive work is needed to clear up legal doubts, to establish appropriate procedures to ensure that the constituent bodies have all the legal certainty they can. And we needed and need parliamentary time for that work, which you have not given us. We must also say that on the other hand we have tabled 42 partial amendments. And of course we are willing to reach agreements and work against human rights violations, wherever they come from. But calm, sustained debate, the search for parliamentary security is the best way to achieve this, along with legal rigour. And for now we're not on that stage. They have made it difficult for us, they have made it difficult for us, and that is why we are presenting this amendment in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u6	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Euskal Socialists' representative. Mr. Ella... Okay. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u7	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. Today we speak of our right to remember the victims of the state. On a day like this, July 8, 1978, San Fermin, armed police shot him on the forehead with a shot from Rodríguez in Gumán. Good-bye, Germán. The people will not forget, And the people will remember you. But institutions, on the other hand, have legal instruments. That is exactly what we have today under discussion. That is what we confess to-day: we have the power to burn and observe the victims of the state, capacity, jurisdiction, right, or no right. We are traversing a law to transmit to the victims and attention of the state. The bill on the table splits the fuel and reduces the attention. The entire reconnaissance and observation we seek is integrated, because victims deserve it. We don't agree with the law project that's brought in, with the text of law, because we're dealing with a greater ambition, but we think that there must be law, that there must be a law to establish truth and justice. Today, we will examine the two integrity corrections of Jorge Fernández Díaz, Minister of the Interior, the corrections of the integrity brought by theUPyD and the PP parties, and we will turn them back. The argument of the Minister of the Interior is this: We have no capacity to inform and observe our victims; this is a small-age people, subject to it, and cannot bring truth into the light, nor establish justice that is denied. And with the argument, he also brings a threat: if we do so, the law will be contrary to the Constitution. The victims of the state have no franchise in the Constitution, they say they are contrary to the Constitution. I have read the arguments, descriptions, and I find them strange to me. UPyD clings to the threat of the Minister of Interior, and takes his arguments literally. PP didn't do that, but I have to say that his arguments seem to me still more impressive and more stupid, and I'll take care of them. The PP tells us: "Not enough time has been given for parliamentarians to develop a comprehensive policy study and to elaborate rigorous work." The group to which I represent has carried out a comprehensive policy study, has produced rigorous, intensive work, which has also crystallized in 83 silent amendments, which broaden the focus of the law and also offer it better shielding in international law. That another group has not done the same perhaps is an indicator of the lack of diligence, perhaps of the laziness with which this work faces. Perhaps the law that EH Bildu wants does not come out; what can not be said is that it has not been involved, that it has not been applied in that there is a law. The arguments used by the PP are fallacious. He tells us: "Legal experts who have appeared in committee have drawn attention to issues that the bill did not clarify, that went overboard legally, or to issues that were at serious risk of being appealed and annulled." This statement, for those of us who were in attendance, we can say, we can see, that it is simply a lie. The experts who, on a proposal from the People's Party, had expressed their views on the draft said that it was well-armed, and proposed simple superficial or cosmetic notes, notes that, if desired, could have been incorporated by means of partial amendments. To draw another conclusion is to manipulate your words, disallow them and put false conclusions in your mouth. The PP of the precedent of Decree 426/2013, challenged by judgment of the Superior Court of Justice of the Basque Country, speaks to us. Of course we know him! But this precedent cannot be invoked, because we have studied the judgment that starts with that procedure, 267/2015, and we have taken it into account precisely in order not to stumble twice on the same stone. With regard to the threat of ending as the Navarra Law 16/2015, of recognition and reparation of victims for acts of political motivation caused by extreme right-wing groups or public officials, it is merely a sign of the offensive of the PP government – through its Minister of the Interior – to block before a politically controlled court laws adopted democratically by the majority of this citizenship in its institutions. Laws that, with their votes, perhaps, the People's Party cannot stop, cannot avoid, and that is why it launches an attitude of prepotence, of imposition, to seek shortcuts to the decision democratically adopted by the majority. You, who have repeated to us to the satisfaction that violence must not be compensated, that it cannot be equated, or, in your most zafia version, that barbecues cannot be mixed with merinas, regret the "absence in this bill of those victims who, coming to the considered context of political violence, have suffered violations as a result of the action of terrorists or of the so-called'street violence', as well as of the people threatened, victims of persecution by ETA". A first assessment: considering ETA's action as a context of political violence may have to be recognized as an advance by the People's Party. The second assessment: do these victims have no coverage in Act No. 29/2011 on Victims of Terrorism? According to article 3, "This Act shall apply to those who suffer from terrorist action". This wide leaves the fan open. As for those threatened, it gives them coverage in article 5, which refers precisely to those threatened. Doesn't he give them enough cover? Do you think it's not enough protection? Perhaps what they would have to promote is a reform of that law. Finally, you speak of unconstitutionality, because this law is allegedly attributed to functions peculiar to criminal jurisdiction. One finding: criminal jurisdiction has been absolutely absent for all these victims, for all these cases that we now seek to recognize and redress. And if anyone doubts this, he has nothing more to do with the eight resolutions of the European Court of Human Rights condemning the Kingdom of Spain for not investigating very serious human rights violations, such as torture. The inactivity of the courts in these cases has been a pattern, has been systematic. The impunity that the Administration of Justice has imposed on these cases has been total. However, this law does not arrogate any attribution of criminal jurisdiction, it does not seek to replace it, and mainly because I consider that no victim of the State renounces his legal actions at any time. Because of the ill-treatment given to them by the Administration of Justice, they have the right to open another way for their redress, and I do not say so. Reparation for victims is an imperative international obligation that is being imposed on States. The basic principles and guidelines on the right of victims of gross violations of international human rights law and serious violations of international humanitarian law guarantee the right of victims to seek remedies and redress. I quote: "Other remedies available to the victim are access to administrative and other bodies, as well as to mechanisms, modalities and procedures used in accordance with domestic law". We are designing that administrative path, we are designing that institutional path. We are making these mechanisms, these public modalities for providing recognition and redress to victims. We're doing domestic law. We are creating that right, we are in that legislative action, with attachment to that imperative international obligation to make reparations to the victims, an obligation that seems to be intended to be ignored. According to this block of principles and guidelines, "In addition to individual access to justice, States must seek to establish procedures to enable groups of victims to file claims and seek redress". It is that reparation that we are looking for, of those procedures it is precisely that we are equipping ourselves with. For this reason, I conclude that the argument behind its amendments to the whole is merely a cluster of laziness, disdain, falsehood and prepotence, precisely to deny recognition and reparation to the victims of the State. I don't just want to consider the text, but I'd like to consider the context as well. I suppose behind words there is a political will, or an end, of Prene, and also of the Minister of the Interior, and is to impose a certain relatation. PP has no will to burn the victims of the state. There was no difficulty in observing the victims of the land, and thus it was made by so many trial laws, and by a complete legislature, that the victims of the state and PP and the State do not exist and will not exist, because they want to conceal the whole truth, because they do not wish to establish all justice and fear the whole memory. These integrity corrections do not focus on whether this bill is appropriate or not; what they put on is whether we have the right to burn and observe these victims or not. What it proves is that the state is not ready to admit that human rights are badly violated. The count of the victims of the state is on zero, and that's all. That's how he wants to leave it. And that's what the state wants to impose on us. What this proves is that the state, the government which PP directs, is not ready to judge itself, is not ready to be put into the mirror of its legality. This would force him to surrender that in the Basque Country he's been the principal agent of human rights. And in the meantime, you want to punish the victims of the state again. You will punish them to follow injustice, to continue gravity, to continue their wounds open. You punish the victims of the state to continue fighting for their rights. And we'll help them in this fight, and we'll help them and give them some champagne for that job. We will face the threat that comes from the minister, and we will face the rules of international laws, jurisprudence, recommendations, and principles which are the regulations of the institutions of the United Nations and of Europe which the State of Spain endeavors to avoid. We will face this threat by analogy, by bringing in the laws and elements which are brought to the Biktime of the 29/2011 Terrorism and its successors, which apparently have no difficulty in making any progress. We want the same protection from these laws as from the other victims in the whole and in the equality of the laws. We do not understand why some administrative laws can be made to burn victims, but not others. We consider these laws, with equal intensity, in order to acknowledge and observe the victims of the state. It is true that our plan is ambitious, because international organisms and rules give us the right to be ambitious. But not only the right: we are forced to be ambitious, to give access to all victims, even to the state, to their incompatibility and observation. That's our commitment, that's our determination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u8	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u9	Mrs. President, Mr. President, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Truth, justice, and recompense are the rights of all the victims of the waters of human rights. This is how international law is established. On the 16th of December 2005, the United Nations confirmed the fundamental principles and axes of the victims of human rights. They are therefore universal rights; they are common to all victims, to every one, and everywhere. But if this be so, it is not an easy trial to guarantee these rights in all cases. The history of the rights of victims is not long, and frequently hard conjunctions determine the application of these rights. Something of the same nature has happened to us in our country: violence and conflict have entirely conditioned the confession and satisfaction of all victims, and even now, unfortunately, we may verify that this is the case. Today, as it was between 1978 and 1999, we give one of the last steps on the way to accept the legal plan, which has suffered the shipwrecks of human rights. It's not the first attempt today, it won't be the last. We have made different attempts during the preceding laws in order to begin the path of confession and payment. In 2011 we were able to get the first steps to start with the report of the victims of human rights, then, and after that, with 107/2012 Decretions made by the Basque Muncher. Then, as we said, the people who put us in motion did not answer the matter as a whole, we only opened up a way. But with the intention of law, which we bring to discussion today, we give another important step. It won't be the same time, but we need to take this step if we want to build a strong and rooted life in our own country. But, alas, there are groups against this step. Two corrections of the whole have been introduced, both of the Popular Party and of the UPyD, and it is all the same to what sort of criticisms are critics of the content. Even before the first plan of the law was made, we knew that the Popular Party and the UPyD would present corrections of the whole, for these parties it is never time to give them the confession and satisfaction due to these victims. Every time this road has been cultivated, Popular Party and UPD have appeared or looked aside. It is no matter, therefore, what is here expressed by Mr. Barri, or by the Lord Maniro, in the argument of their justice. There is no political will left behind this attitude. Nevertheless, the correction of the Populative Party explains four principal defects in the intention of the law. One, a short time for reflection and discussion, two concepts without explanation, a lack of three other victims, and four of which is the supposed constitutionality of the law- plan, and the arrangement of the state. Let's go with these arguments. The first argument, that is, the lack of time. It's the most time missing, and it's the most critical critics of the day. I'm sure you don't work well and on time, and he's denying all the legal teams he needs. But this, more than reason, is an excuse. You know, it's just... it's been a lot of fun with this law all the time. The origin of this intention of legislation is at two moments: The sentence of the Supreme Court of Euskals of the Order was known on the 28th of April, 2015, and the execution of the law was useless without knowing the circumstances of this sentence. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, it is not a problem of lack of time or of stealing the debate from this House. The Law 4/2008 of this Parliament, for example, on Recognition and Reparation for Victims of Terrorism, nothing more and nothing less, took three months to process and adopt in this Parliament, after its approval by the Governing Council and presentation in the Register of Parliament. The Basque Government has acted diligently in this case. This bill, for starters, was not part of the legislative calendar, and has its origins in two key milestones: the High Court of Justice's ruling on the Government's decree and the majority agreement of this Parliament in June, calling for the submission of a bill that would give greater legal certainty and recognition to these victims. Well, the judgment of the High Court of Justice was heard on 28 April 2015, a year and two months ago. Without knowing its content, the law could not and should not begin to be drafted. It would have been an irresponsibility on the part of the Basque Government; in fact, the bill incorporates all the conclusions and recommendations set out in the judgement itself. And the agreement of the Basque Parliament cited, requesting the Basque Government to present a law, was adopted on June 11, 2015. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, only a year has passed and we are already debating the amendments in their entirety. It does not seem reasonable, therefore, to insist on the lack of due diligence or interest of the Government in approving this draft, unless it is by resorting to a recurrent mantra, it is worth redundancy. On the other hand, it is not possible – in a fair manner at least – for parliamentary groups to talk about a lack of time to study and work on the content of the law. Let us be honest, ladies and gentlemen: the parliamentary groups had the first draft of the preliminary draft in November 2015, and since then the Government has informed the parliamentary groups on a regular basis of the various changes that were being incorporated into the initial draft. We know, Mr Barrio, firsthand the content and the changes that have been taking place. Therefore, it is not something we have known when the bill is introduced in the register. How, therefore, do you now claim lack of time for analysis? It is not a problem of parliamentary quality, Mr Barrio. It is a problem of lack of political will or lack of interest. In fact, 162 partial amendments to the bill have been tabled. The second argument of the amendment to the whole PP is that the frameworks defined as a context of political motivation and a context of action for the purpose of unlawful repression are unexplained. It seems clear that the amendment goes far beyond the provisions of the law. The explanation of the meaning of the context of unlawful repression is reflected in article 2 of the draft law. Human rights violations occurring in a context of unlawful repression shall be considered when the following conditions are met: One, which occurred in a context of politically motivated violence. And two, which was carried out in a context of action or action for the purpose of unlawful repression, and in which he could have participated either in the performance of his duties or outside the performance of his duties; or individuals acting in groups or in isolated, individual and uncontrolled ways. This second case is the only one that is incorporated ex novo into the law, because the other was already contained in Decree 107/2012. The meaning of the context of political motivation, on the contrary, is previously established in Decree 107/2012. The treatment of this decree is based on the concept of politically motivated violence. It is therefore a concept explained in its own background. This concept allows, first, to differentiate this figure from that of terrorism, in order, secondly, to better identify and redress the victims. Violence in a context of political motivation in the Basque case occurs when its perpetrators are agents of the State who act with obvious abuse of power or exceeding their functions, as well as para-police organizations and groups that have had their support or acquiescence, and when their actions are aimed at influencing society or politics causing feelings of terror and impotence. Ladies and gentlemen, tell me frankly that this has not happened in Euskadi in all these years. The third argument of the People's Party amendment is that it fails to include victims affected by kale borroka or threats in this law. This objection is at least paradoxical when it is formulated by a party that repeatedly denounces the inconvenience of mixing victims and violence. This law makes it possible to recognize and repair victims without mixing different victimological and criminological contexts, among other things to avoid matching actions of a different nature. People threatened and affected by terrorist violence must find an adequate response to the injustice suffered within the specific regulatory framework that has been created for victims of terrorism that is taking a long journey in this country. If there are gaps or gaps in this normative framework, they will have to be resolved, yes, but the solution is not through the incorporation into this law of these cases, something, on the other hand, that the victims themselves would reject. The fourth and final argument of the People's Party, also made in this case by UPyD and by the Ministry of the Interior in its report, is that of the unconstitutionality of the law. It is argued that the project includes functions specific to judges and courts and exclusive competence of the State. At the outset, it must be said that the report of the Ministry of the Interior is an exact copy of another sent in March and that it was already answered by the Basque Government, and that it served to amend the draft law; it was collected and taken into account, and it was aspects that strengthen the legal certainty of the draft. But it is obvious that the ministry has not read them. The bill precisely points to the competence of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country in its drive and development. Article 9 of the Statute of Autonomy establishes as a guiding principle and obligation of the Basque public authorities the guarantee of the proper exercise of the fundamental rights and duties of citizens, the promotion of a policy aimed at improving living conditions and the promotion of conditions for the freedom and equality of individuals and groups to be effective and real. This policy of accompanying the victims of human rights violations, as the Lehendakari pointed out in his speech, must be registered in the competition titles corresponding to the Basque Autonomous Community under Articles 10.12 (social assistance), 10.18 (health) and particularly 10.39 (Community development). Thus, the law is clearly placed in these three areas: social assistance, health and community development. And in addition the norm plays an important symbolic function of sociopolitical content by the institutional and moral recognition offered when declaring the existence of victims of unjust suffering. On another questionable aspect, that of the assumption of functions that only judges can perform, both international and state laws and autonomous laws emphasize that the victim will be recognized and repaired regardless of whether the author has been identified, apprehended, tried or convicted, in accordance with United Nations Resolution 60/147. Reparation for the damage caused to victims is here and around the world an administrative and non-criminal process. If what the Ministry of the Interior says was true, it would be questioning the public policies of truth, justice, reparation and recognition that are promoted, because no victim of serious violence could be recognized as such if there had previously not been a judicial process that certifies the facts, authorship and guilt. All legal experts who have appeared in the Commission on Human Rights, contrary to what has been expressed in this rostrum by some spokespersons, have agreed to highlight the legal certainty of the project. The President himself of the High Court of Justice of the Basque Country disassembled each and every one of the legal objections raised here by Mr Maneiro, for example. We are therefore convinced that the law is well-armed from the legal point of view and that this cannot be the argument to refuse to approve a draft that does nothing but correct an injustice, that of all the victims who have not been recognized or repaired so far, unless the Spanish Government is denying the democratic commitment we have to all the victims of unjust violence. If we are to build a future of peace and coexistence, we must all make a critical review of the past. This government and the party I represent are already doing so, and we would like to meet the rest of the groups on this path. We look to the future without forgetting that in the past there was much unjust suffering. So there's no excuse at the moment. The key is whether we wish to acknowledge and confirm the rights of these victims, whether they are political will or not. We say "yes" and "Eunk" and "Eupon Jeltt." And we want to do this, like so far, with all due agreement and legal assurance. We're open for discussion and agreement, and we want to find the other teams on that road. Let's make the way together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u10	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD? He mustn't speak. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio? He mustn't speak. We'll go to the vote. Now that the discussion's over, we'll vote for the bill to come back or not. We can vote. [[Berber]] Let's try again, beast behin probatuko dugu. And if not, let the vote be recorded in the Minutes. Let's try it again. We vote again. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 69; the supporters of the 9; the contrary, 60; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u11	He's not going back to the government's bill. Now the vote. Mr. Ella, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u12	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, President, chief physician, and all the members of the assembly. The Socialists have refused to return the bill of law, because we've been engaged to make the law, because a year ago we've been conducting an order, because we think it's necessary to continue and end a work begun by the Socialists. We meet with many arguments that have proposed to us to restore the bill of law, and we make some corrections on this subject, but we do not know this discussion to-day. We've heard all of them, but, as I say, we're not here today. We'll do it wisely in the next few days when ponciating. The Socialists believe that all the rules of law have been violated, they must cultivate the areas which protect the persons who have suffered wrong. They must search for the greatest rigour, and, though they do not fulfil the demands of all, it must be the whole legal protection, lest any frustration should arise. And that's what I didn't do. We complain of this disposition, that the experience of this field has not been sufficient to prevent the same mistakes; we have seen throughout the whole course of the law that the same past defects have been made. Among these errors, the fiasco of the last attempt to establish regulations to deal with the cases referred to in the law. It was this expansion of the original decree in 2013, which precipitated the Government with great voluntarism, but without that we have been repeating that it is essential: rigour, consensus and legal certainty. The socialist decree, the previous one, has not been questioned by any political, social or legal body. That is why there are 187 people, as the lehendakari has recalled, who have been repaired within what can be repaired an unjustly suffered damage. And that was possible because, despite being regulated by decree, which is an act of government, and despite the fact that the ambition of the socialist government was broader, it was chosen to go step by step and create spaces of confidence with all the parties in this House, which have never objected to it, and also with the Government of Spain, with that of Rajoy, to eliminate suspicions and polish the norm. It was the subsequent enlargement that dispensed from these limbs that was laid down by the Court of Justice of the Basque Country. And it was then, that same April 28, 2015, when we were told from the government that they had been working for two months on a law that, given the text, beyond the incomplete or incorrect wording of some parts, is an expanded development of what already had. But everything was delayed. The hemerotheque does not deceive, and so much then holder has not just explained why it has taken so long to refer the text to this House at the end of the legislature. To conclude this procedure, the ruler and precedents of this Chamber have been twisted. However, in July there was a majority who had decided that this law would be accepted. We can agree from the beginning that this law is necessary, but it may not have been in March, when we found out through the media that the elections might come forward. That's not what happened and we're not going to go that way. There is a text that seeks to implement part of the parliamentary mandate that we gave in June last year without anyone opposing it. On the other side of the mandate, that of consensus and rigour, have been forgotten, as many times. And they could have made the effort. I want to remind you of a fact. In 2008, in an environment of great political turmoil and enormous tension over terrorism, the Victims of Terrorism Act was processed in three months, as they have recalled before. The project came days after my colleague Isaías Carrasco was killed; it was approved three months later, the same day this House supported the Ibarretxe Consultation Act, which they did not want to remember. One of the laws, that worked from responsibility and consensus, remains in force; the other, that worked from pruritus and division, ended up nullified. I wasn't here, and I wonder why this law of the victims came out so short, and also in this political environment that we can't get it out without terrorist threats, with a work we think necessary. I wonder, I don't think anyone here will. That's why I think we can still do it. I invite you to finish this job, but not as he started it. Make that final effort and seek a broad consensus. Not because anyone may be tempted to hang a medal, not because the victims need certainties and safe answers, not scenarios of confrontation and frustrations. That is why we have voted against the return of the text, to offer one last chance. What happens in these two weeks will depend on our final vote. I insist, what happens in the paper depends on our final vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u13	Thank you, Mr. Ella. Second point on the subject list: "Advance of human rights, of equality, and of the Assembly of People in the end of life, to secure the rights and dignity of men upon the bill of law. Discipline and final resolution. Some member of the committee... ? Let's start the team shift with Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u14	Thank you, President. Already at the time, more than two years ago, we support the proposal for a law guaranteeing the rights and dignity of persons in the final process of their lives, an initiative presented by EH Bildu, a text similar to the Andalusian law, the first of its kind adopted in Spain. Today we will vote in favour of the law. We are faced with a law that finally, and after the work on presentation and commission, in which UPyD has not been able to participate as a result of the accumulation of parliamentary work, enshrines the rights of the terminally ill, guarantees maximum respect for the autonomy of the patient in the process of death, delimits the obligations of the health personnel and strengthens the role of the palliative care units to care for the patients in the final process of their life. Persons in the final process of their life shall have the right to receive medical and healthcare information; if they voluntarily and deliberately reject the information, that decision shall be respected. The terminal patient may refuse an intervention or discontinue treatment, even against the medical criteria and despite the fact that this decision may put his life at risk. You may choose to receive palliative care at the hospital or at home. And in case you choose to die in a health facility, the law will ensure that you can be in a single room. To date, there have already been channels to make possible the patient's dignity in the death process, such as the Patient's Autonomy Act or the document of anticipated wills. This law perfects and facilitates the whole process. The law establishes the right to palliative care, including sedation, and may be provided at the home, residence or health centre where the person is admitted. In addition, efforts will be made to provide the necessary means to enable family members or caregivers to receive specific assistance, and care in palliative care will be prevented from being different according to the centre. It is about that in the final process of life there are no unnecessary incarnations, prolonged treatments, and that death comes in a process that is as painful as possible. Today we have the means to do so, the preparation of professionals and the social conscience that drives us to take this step forward. The law therefore represents a step forward in terms of the regulations that we have at our disposal and will count on our vote. However, the text finally agreed between EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party does not mention euthanasia or assisted suicide. The Socialist Group has reserved three amendments, two of which refer to these important issues. UPyD will vote in favour of these Socialist Group amendments. At the second ordinary congress of UPyD we adopted a resolution that literally said: "We propose to move forward in the legal regulation of the right to dignified death, that is, to arrange the end of one's life without additional suffering or euthanasia, in situations where the person concerned, fully conscious and informed, cannot decide and act for himself as a result of any physical impediment, requiring the help of health professionals to end unbearable suffering. "The regulation of this right must take into account the maximum legal protection of the applicant and of the professional willing to assist him, on the basis that the application must be expressed and repeated, with full information and coincidence of the person concerned and of the health personnel". UPyD supports help to die without suffering in cases where the person concerned cannot cause his own death. That is, we go a step further than what this final text has concluded and we agree with the definition of euthanasia proposed by the Association for the Right to Die Dignity and, in general, with what has been recognized by most of the laws of countries where progress has been made on this issue (Canada, Belgium, several states of the United States), where suicide is assumed assisted by a professional, who prescribes the drugs necessary to put an end to life by the person concerned or with the help of third persons. At the time I picked up a sentence from the ruling of the Canadian Supreme Court that legalized assisted suicide that still seems paradigmatic to me and that deserves to be remembered also in today's debate: "The right to life should not be transformed into an obligation to live". This law that we are going to pass is a step forward, but not a big step forward, because, to a large extent, what is collected is already being done. It is true, in any case, that this law will improve the legal certainty of professionals and that patients will have a clear right to ask for certain treatments not to be given to prolong their lives. In short, it means giving rank of law to what is basically being done, "to sleep before dying so as not to suffer", which is another of the typical phrases of groups and people defending sedation in the final processes of life. Today, Euskadi will be included in the list of autonomous communities that have already drafted laws of these characteristics. First it was Andalusia and then Aragon, Navarre, Canary Islands, Balearic Islands or Galicia. We, in any case, advocate for a national law that goes beyond what this one gets and for the amendment of the Penal Code to decriminalize euthanasia. We will vote in favour of the socialist amendments that speak of euthanasia and assisted suicide, and we withdraw all our amendments, because basically their meaning is reflected in the text adopted by the paper and the committee. We would have liked some definitions to have been otherwise specified and some extremes of palliative care units and professionals to have been better specified, but surely today these issues can already be considered minor issues. As I say, I will support the socialist amendments which seek to automate the application of euthanasia and assisted suicide at the same time as the Criminal Code is being reformed. This is really important, to reform article 143 of the Criminal Code, which punishes anyone who cooperates in the death of another sick person with up to six years'imprisonment. This is the question, this is what remains to be done. This is the reform that the political groups represented in the Congress of Deputies will have to carry out as soon as possible. That said, we support the law for the reasons set out above, because it gives legal certainty to professionals and guarantees the right of all citizens to have a final process of dignified and suffering-free life, although UPyD, I say, advocates going further and moving towards legislation that decriminalizes euthanasia and assisted suicide throughout Spain, with maximum legal certainty, obviously, so that every person with full freedom and conscience can decide on his or her life and on the time and way to end that life. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u15	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u16	Thank you, President. Good morning again, everyone and everyone. It is evidence that death is the only certainty that we humans have from the very moment we are born, and, given the evolution of our society, there has been an increasing participation of the health system in the process of dying; not always in the most appropriate way, but much progress is being made and much progress has been made. To recognize the natural nature of death and to seek peace at the end of life must be understood as elements of our institutional heritage and we must root them in the ethical code also of the health organization in this case, but of the whole society. It is necessary to provide all health professionals with the necessary support, information and tools to assume their role safely, to reduce conflict in a painful and complex situation, such as the end of life. It is an inescapable obligation to them and a determined commitment to citizenship. The scientific-technical development that medicine experienced in the last century has meant a progressive increase in life expectancy, an ageing population and the emergence of an increasing number of patients with chronic, degenerative and oncological diseases. This great technological development has meant an improvement in people's living conditions and the ability to prolong life to unsuspected limits. It has come to such an extent that within society there are those who have the wrong perception that death can and should be postponed almost always. This approach to medicine is one of the ones responsible for many health professionals being sometimes uncomfortable and insecure at the end of the disease, without knowing very well how to act. On the other hand, the progressive awareness of people's own autonomy and the desire to make decisions regarding health, disease and death has fallen into the collective consciousness. That is, much progress has been made, good progress has been made, and those are the clear issues. And we must do so also in the legal sphere that is ours. We will vote in favour of the text, we will vote in favour of the proposed law of the final process of life. There is an interesting reference in the text to other legislation that is already in place in other autonomous communities, also to issues that we have in basic legislation. The goal is to guarantee that final process of life in the best conditions and we understand that the law that we are going to pass guarantees it. We believe that there are no areas of action against basic legislation, State legislation. And it has also been important for us to have some doubts about the inclusion in this law of areas where there was no competence, legally very complicated, very complex, such as euthanasia. Fortunately, since our consideration, these issues are not dealt with in this future law. In that sense, for us it is worthy of support in the other; we understand that it orders, clarifies, puts order in some matters. We have tabled a number of amendments, about 100. There have been transactions, there have been acceptances, there have been basically withdrawals based on discussions and clarification of some issues. And we also announce that the important thing has definitely been in the text, the legal certainty, the deepening of the rights of the patient, putting a law in what already existed in professional practice, in other norms, in the good doing of the professionals, that recognition. I think we've made some progress there. The proposal for a law has undergone variations, reorderings. The location of the amendments has had to do with articles, with the explanatory statement, with definitions, with procedures, with regard to the professional issue, and, of course, the proposed law has been somewhat altered from what was initially. The spirit behind our group is to make a law of the final process of guaranteed life, in accordance with the rest of the legislation (anticipated intentions...), with issues that affect (patient autonomy, health management and care quality), with professional practice – fundamental element – with good uses, with medical and scientific criteria fundamentally and with respect for the patient and his relatives. We are going to announce the withdrawal of our amendments, but we would, if possible, ask for the separate vote on paragraph 14 of the explanatory statement, which says: "Although in its day it was a great step forward in the assumption of these principles by our health system, practice has shown that, in some cases, Law 41/2002, which regulates patient autonomy and the rights and obligations of clinical information and documentation, is insufficient...". We do not agree, it does not seem to us to be insufficient. Like all laws, I believe it was an important law when it was passed, in 2002. I believe that assessing it in a statement of reasons for a new law as an insufficient law is not fair. In that sense, if the president allows it, that paragraph 14, which begins in "Although in its day it was a great advance...", we can vote on it separately from the rest of the law. We would thank him, and there we would abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u17	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u18	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari, counselors. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a pity, but we continue to walk slowly, we do not adjust the pace of our steps to that of society. Today we are going to pass a law that could have served to expand individual rights and that will simply remain in a remarkable improvement of care. On behalf of the Basque Socialists, I come to defend three amendments, only three amendments. And we are going to support the rest of the wording of the law, because, as we have already made progress in the debate in committee, we understand that the text in which we have worked with complete involvement and in the absolute certainty of moving it forward substantially improves the regulation that we have had so far. It improves the assistance we will receive at the end of our lives, will help us to die better in our country and gives greater legal certainty to medical practices that are already being applied with terminally ill people. But, we also said it and repeated it, some doubts regarding the guarantee of patients' autonomy. And that could have been improved significantly, modifying expressions that leave the door very open so that the last personal will can be replaced by other wills and interpretations. Ladies and gentlemen, Bildu brought us a very well-intentioned original proposal which seemed to us from the beginning insufficient. Bildu must have thought so too, because, in fact, he was self-inflicted in the same line. And that line, that of defending the right to euthanasia, the right to assisted suicide and the observatory of dignified death, was in fact present and remained open until the last meeting of the presentation. I don't know what happened then to change Bildu's position and publicly explain that such recognition could generate legal uncertainty. It is curious that this fear comes from Bildu and does not come from us, or even from UPyD, to whom I am already grateful for your support of our amendments. It is curious that we could have added a majority, as we have already achieved in the Housing Act, to expand rights and have renounced it. And I will add a point in relation to the debate in committee. And I'm going to do it now, not at the last moment, because, if not, then what happens, that everyone takes their sardine into the dark, harms the central core of the debate in a twisting way, which is what happened in committee. The position we are defending is that of the Basque Socialists, so that it is clear. I say this for those who can repeat to us today, in their case, that decriminalization was expressly reflected in our electoral programme of the last elections, diverting attention, the focus of the debate, in that way interested and, above all, torturing. I will devote a few seconds to this issue. It is often repeated a lot that certain parties have our centre of decision in Madrid, and what is meant by that is simply that we are less Basque; that is what is meant. I have to say that this position has been decided with complete autonomy by the Basque Socialist Party, like many others, and that we want to extend it to the rest of the political formations, to which we continue to appeal, and also to the rest of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. I don't know if when some people talk about the Basque agenda they refer to these things, but for us – to be clear – the Basque agenda is the one that affects Basque citizenship (to me, who am Basque; to you, who are Basque) and we will take it to defend wherever it is. That is why – I continue with the nuclear issue of today's issue – we presented our contributions, in which, as I said to them, we seemed to coincide with Bildu. That is why we also provoked a debate of intentions that led a year ago to 85% of the representatives of Basque citizens, that is, 85% of us, being able and asking for the decriminalisation of euthanasia and assisted suicide. What's happened since then? In what part of the way have we strayed from that aspiration to expand our civil rights? Which part of the way? Yes, I appeal directly to you, Mrs. Ubera. We Socialists do not want to defend ourselves from the extension of our freedoms, and that is why we maintain these three amendments, with which we only seek to improve the lives of people; the lives of people, ladies and gentlemen. And we do that by trying to guarantee our right to die in the best possible way, which is nothing but die as we want (see if we finally understand each other). From the utmost respect for the rights, freedoms and autonomy of people, offering the opportunity for all, in one way or another, to culminate our life with the highest human dignity. And if we have guaranteed this, not only will we die better, but we will live infinitely better, with the certainty that at the end of our lives we will remain people with the capacity to decide, with a will to respect. We have neither and will never have our own experience of death, but, unfortunately, all of us here have seen the death of people we love, and that experience and the certainty of our own provisionality, that we are here in passing, have taught us to live, and, thanks to that too, each one of us knows, I am sure, how he wants his death to be. I, at least, know it, and the Basque Socialists know it too. We die only once, and it is forever, ladies and gentlemen; that is, we must do well. And the only way to do it right is with absolute respect for our will and with the right to respect for our dignity and our decisions. I don't know any other way to do it. That is why we want the right of people, of all people, to respect their decision. That they can decide how, when, where and with whom to die. They can decide, "I've come, I don't want any more, I don't want any more suffering, this is over." When a person in a terminal state, with an irreversible deterioration, wants to die and asks for it unquestionably, either at the time or, if he cannot do so at the time, with an advance declaration of will, there is no turning of the leaf, ladies and gentlemen. You have to help him die. That right must be guaranteed, because we are not prepared to guarantee solidarity with the sick, generosity or piety. We're a bit of a weird society for those things. How many times have we used that expression, ladies and gentlemen, "let alone die!" Socialists want a death in peace, a calm, calm death, for the person who leaves, but also for those who stay. In short, we want to extend rights, and every extension of rights, you know it as well as I do, has always been preceded by ethical debates. It passed with the right to each one to choose whether to marry or to marry. It passed with the right that everyone chooses to share his life with whomever he wants, without more limit than the intimate and personal will of those who make that decision. It also passed with our right, with women's right to decide when to be mothers. And, in that line, we thought that it was possible that the text that we adopted today, the one published in the Official Gazette in a few days' time, could be more than a remarkable improvement in care, that we would get more rights. Putting, too, cautions us. Because we would never think of putting in life at risk of criminal proceedings those who collaborate, with great pain of their heart, beyond all sorrows, in the last will of a close terminal patient who wants to put an end to their suffering. But there does not seem to be a strong majority in this Basque Parliament today who did not want it to be so. But before this happens, if that will is determined contrary to what I am asking you, I want you to look inside yourselves. Look into your heart, look inside you, please. And think if there's anything more important about this job that we do every day than improve people's lives. But really, not like a phrase made. This is, as Mr Maneiro – who has a lot of custom – one of the most important debates being held in this Parliament. We're talking about people's lives. And if the answer is "yes", after looking into your heart, if you think that is so, follow the impulse of your conscience and vote on these amendments. And if it finally happens what is expected, we will have a sour feeling of this session. We all back a law that's an advance on what we had. But we haven't taken the last step. We have not given the passage of bold laws, courageous laws (the law of abortion, the law of egalitarian marriage). All these laws were born under the threat of resources, and all went forward, because in the end it weighed much more the political will to accompany reality than anything else. Today we are waiting for the judges to continue to solve the problems we have with this matter, to make certain interpretations of the norm to avoid prison, prison, who, despite their sorrows, agree with great pain to take care of the last will of their relatives, of their relatives. Because a judge had to intervene nothing, in Galicia, when the parents of a girl cried out in public – with a law of dignified death – desperate, that they would stop the suffering and beg to help their daughter to die. Today we could be talking about many personal experiences, sure; we all have many personal experiences. I am convinced that each one of us sitting here feels the same shudder at a lot of cases we see, desperate cases that splatter us any day from the page of any newspaper. We tremble with those citizens because we too are those citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u19	Time to finish, Mrs. Gallastegui.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u20	I'm finishing up, President. We are the citizens who know these testimonies, the citizens who carry out these testimonies. This Parliament did not want to dare to take an important step, it is a pity. What surrounds death remains sensitive matter, surrounded by taboos and fears. It has not been intended to open a door through which those who want to pass, through which no one is going to be forced to pass. But what's certain is that this battle will end up winning it. And when I say that we will end up winning it, I do not mean socialists; I mean people, ladies and gentlemen. It will be late again for many, but, as Benedetti wrote, victory grows slowly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u22	Good morning, everyone. To-day, to the citizens of the Esquimic Esquimia, at least for some of us, it is an important day: In the end, the resolution that we claim to respect for the rest of our life will accept an instrument to respect even at the end of life. The law which ensures the rights and dignity of persons in the end of life. We're talking about rights. We are not speaking of a law of worthy death, but of a law which regulates rights to ensure a decent death, which is the fashion and belief of the people. A democratic society, because there is no advancement between men and people's will, if they do not preponderate in the centre. And because the Basque People are the project of the Collectors to build a democratic society, to achieve an advanced society, we want them to build, to accept these instruments, to place them in the hands of the people. We want the ability to decide, here. we wish to decide our lives, we would decide our future, Mr. Urkullu, and wish to decide even our deaths, beyond the disputes of terms and words which are rendered to be totem. The law that we're accepting is good. Commercial step, we'll make a significant step forward. The determination of a person, the respect of a person's will, obliges him to it, and there is no doubt about it. So, on our way to the top of Everest, we got to the first camp. It's not today, but it's a starting-point because the road moves, because it builds step by step, and we're trying to keep building the road. We will not conceal that the law which we shall assume does not satisfy us in a hundred per cent. It is not a law of worth the death which EHGAG would write, but there was no majority in accepting the law which would approach our ideals, and no political will in all other groups. There was no political will at all, even in the Social Party, which was a different cause, and all legitimate and respectable. The corrections which each group has submitted, each of which belongs to its father and mother. We were ready to rectify the eucanism, aided by suicide, to enter into the articulate. PSE, on the other hand, always put on a coletilla in the corrects he introduced, and received that coletilla even in the corrects he held today: "once in Madrid after reforming the Criminal Code," "once in Madrid after dedication." And we can't put ourselves into Madrid because he hasn't done anything before, because he won't do anything, and because he always makes us dependent on him, and because we want to build our future, build our freedom and build our rights. The EAJ and Popular Party were on the other side. Thus, seeing what they had seen, it was disjunctive: To fall into the theoretical philosophy of maxims, or to play with pragmatism and realism, to give an answer to the common practice of the people, and to the central subjects which are common to all of us to build a good ground. So we had two choices. One, by the trial and appearance of the choice we had in hand, the agents who had asked for different professionals, and to ensure the rights and dignity of men's lives, by the consent of the person, a good frame in the hands of the people; or the other was, after two long years' discussion, to continue in dispute, without conciliating anything, and to place the people in the place under the subjective criteria of health professionals and hospital equipment, as is now the case. It's been two years. It's worked. It's worked a lot. And I want to thank all the teams. Even to the letter, Mr. Iturbe, I'd like to thank him for all the work he's done. And I want to thank all my colleagues, experts, and especially those who have been with me all the way today, especially those who have been with me, and who have been willing to help me with every moment, however different his point of view. We've worked in the construction mode, and we've considered the complexity and depth of the subject. For a moment we were able to see what the situation was, what was the difference and the difference between them, and we were able to help the people of non-comitant people in their everyday situation, and to maintain and defend their rights at the end of life and to be respected and respected by their will, in order to find an agreement and to obtain a law. We've done it, and I feel like it's a blessing. And again today, as I did on the committee, I would like to thank Monsieur Barri, Madame Gallaustegui, and Mr. Orbegi. Congratulations to all and, really, thank you. The law is clear and exact. It has twenty-two articles, five additional regulations, one transient regulation, and one last regulation. It is very clear what is the purpose of the law, the criteria to be used for interpreting the law, the means by which the public system ought to be established at the hands of the person or of the family. The law then descends to the ground, descends to practicality, and regulates all the matters which it ought to take into account during the end of life. So that this field which had hitherto been excluded from the medical system, puts it into the sphere of the lightest care, put it in the diary, and has a special frame, in equity and universalism, in both these principles, deepning it. So we'll have one more property to build our state, the most vital property. I don't know what other people will do without waiting. We are going to build our own way here, to make our own course, to make our status, and to lead our right to the limit of our decision. When we made a legal proposal, we had three main goals. One was to regulate the circle of lightest care, and to have the same access as the inhabitants of all countries, and to have the same qualifications, which was one. It was the other person to have the last word, to respect his person's will at the end of his life. And the third was to promote the dispute of eucanasia and of aid to suicide. And as far as we've seen, we've achieved these three goals. Now, we're going to start preparing the next step, in the course of total freedom, for the dedication of the article of the Penitentiary 143. And, as I told you during the course of power, we extended our hand to the groups as you have, and even at the committee we extended our hand to the rest of the parties here, and to those who may be in the next legislation or in Congress, in Madrid, we give you a hand to change the punishment code from this house to Congress. Let's take the initiation and let's get the hell out of here. Or if you like Congress, Congress. But the Basque People will receive initiation, as they have received it in this legislation. We'll continue to work on the summit of Everest, camp by camp. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u23	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u24	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. We thought it was clear from the very beginning: our position would have been a builder around this legal proposition. And in this sense, we have had no objection on our way to accept this law, and we believe that we have agreed to a good law, and that this Chamber will receive a good law this day. We believe, too, that the Medical Department and Osarides have long been, and above all in the past years, will form a path which will help to complete and improve that path. For, for example, we have, in this very law, commitments received from the Medical Department in Plan 2013 to 2020 Health, and also in the decree of rights and obligations granted last year, and also in the lightest care of our acquaintance in this Chamber. We think, then, that this law will help us to penetrate into the rights, duties, and guarantees of life, and to advance on these assurances. So our team wants to thank you on the one hand for the attitude of the representatives of the other teams. The work has lasted for two years, we have had a very long and profound discussion, a very satisfactory comparison of different points of view, and in this respect I am willing to thank the others for their position, and above all for the protection which they will give to the text which we shall at last accept. And thanks also for the various and various experts who have participated in the exhibitions, and above all for their work, and for the point of view which every one has given. We have attempted to consider the recommendations we have heard in these instances, and to reflect on the observations we have made, and at least it is evident that we have tried as best we can to describe our corrections. We believe that, in this text, there is a reflection of what is here said, and that we have succeeded in receiving what has been said there. As we said at the last meeting of the board and the committee, we wanted the law to be useful to the present reality, to the exigencies of the present day, that was our principal aim, effective, capable of fulfilling it, and respecting its limitations and jurisdictions, to guarantee the legal security which may be. We knew the boundaries from the beginning. More than one expert reminds us that there were boundaries, and we, considering all these things, agreed as best we could to the law. So I want to confirm that our true intention has been to agree with a good law which will help us to improve the health of people, to be as good as possible in this trial at the end of life. That was our real wish. By the way, we would like to praise this end, and to be associated with this engagement, the work of so many professionals, and their commitment to the Osacans every day, and particularly we would like to thank and acknowledge the daily explanation of all of them. In this law we receive several rights, duties, and guarantees, and all this with legal security. We cannot forget that it is our duty to accept laws to improve the daily situation, to try to improve the current policy, the current law. As we have already confessed from the very beginning, there is a great deal to be done, as far as the attention to the end of life is concerned. This is another step. We don't start from scratch, but we don't finish the road. As has been said before, in the Medical Plan, the exact commitments of this area are received. In other words, let all services have a plan of the most trifling care, of increasing the number of expressions of precedent wills, etc., and so on. In like manner, 147/2015 Decree, for the first time in the Euskalians, what are the rights and duties of the Common-wealth. And here also is the necessity of the proper planning for extrinsic care, of the respect due to former wills, of the autonomy of the sick, of the right of information, etc., and so on. So we don't start from scratch and this is not the last step. We have a camp to continue to improve constantly, and our commitment is strong for that. As for the paragraph Mr. Barri here mentioned, I think we were talking about. That is to say, it is a constant labour; that at its very moment a law was admitted, but that it was necessary to continue the improvement of this law, at least this law was intended. Therefore, this law is positive because it completes and strengthens the work that the Department of Health and Osakidetza have been developing for years. Because for our group it is essential to ensure respect for the autonomy, the will of the sick; to guarantee their dignity at all times, and especially in the final process of life; to guarantee their right to receive information and to give informed consent; the right to access treatment, palliative care that requires their situation and helps them to alleviate suffering and helps them to alleviate pain; and the right to be able to express their will by prior instructions, which must be respected, as well as their values or beliefs, their privacy and the right to accompany their relatives at these last moments. And all this from a practical point of view, with a practical objective: to be a realistic and achievable law, which really serves to improve the quality of care for people in the final process of life. There was talk here that we're walking slowly. That's right. As we have said, it is a slow but firm step. I had doubts about the guarantee of respect for the patients' will. I believe that this law sufficiently guarantees this respect. And I asked what has changed with regard to the non-legislative proposal that was passed almost a year ago in this House. I think it is very important to know the vision or contributions made in his day by the people who appeared here, a person like Pablo Simon, one of those who participated in the first law in this matter, which was approved in Andalusia. It is true that people's lives are not improved with beautiful speeches, defended with vehemence; they are very well, but they are also made with effective and achievable laws. In the debate on this GNP, you acknowledged that there are a number of limits, some competitive limits. In fact, the purpose of the NLP was to urge Congress to amend the Criminal Code, precisely in order to try to abolish those limits. I recognise that he has made a good speech, but the content of the amendments he maintains, which raise many doubts, has not been made clear. 238 and 268 say that care consisting of medical assistance to die will be guaranteed once the Penal Code is reformed, decriminalizing euthanasia and so-called assisted suicide. The substance of the amendment has not been made clear to us. It is an ad futurum amendment. I think it is very important that it is clear how it is possible, in terms of legislative technique, to defend this amendment; also relating to Mr Maneiro's approach, which suggested that he would support these three amendments. I think it is necessary to know the content of the amendment in order to know what we are really talking about. We would, therefore, like to explain what the Socialist Party means in these corrections: why this hypothesis, which you defend, is better to wait until the change is done. So, what in the meantime? What's going on? At least we'd like to explain it to you. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Passing on the answering shift, Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u26	Thank you, President. I have already explained in my first round the goodness and improvements that this law incorporates that we are going to pass and the reasons why I will vote in favour of the agreed text. It's an important day, it's said. However, it could have been a much more important day. We have a good new law on the final process of life, but a law that could have been better. It has been pointed out by some interveners that this is a short but firm step. I believe that it is shorter than firm and that we have missed an opportunity to have reached a more advanced and progressive text. We have reached the first camp, for using the same term used by Mrs Ubera, but some of us wanted to climb up to the summit, or at least a few meters more. Unfortunately, we have not found any more progressive parliamentarians to continue to ascend, except the 10 socialist parliamentarians, who were willing to go something higher. We find, therefore, a legal text, let us say that insufficient, agreed by the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu and that it will be approved by all. But a clearly insufficient legal text. He could have gone further and he didn't want to. Let us say that EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party have mostly agreed to adopt the text and have preferred to put aside other amendments; in particular, those socialist amendments that could have improved the law. I say that the legal text introduces certain improvements, we have all recognized it, but it has given up further progress. The PNV and EH Bildu pact has prevented us from having a more advanced law. Incomprehensiblely, it has been preferred to leave out the regulation of euthanasia and assisted suicide, or at least some concrete reference to them. Beyond the competitive limits that we know perfectly well, I believe that what the Socialist Group still intends to incorporate not only deserves our approval, but could perfectly be understandable and acceptable to a majority of the groups in this House. He didn't mean to. I believe that in this case we can say that simply out of laziness and comfort on the part of the two main groups in this House. Mrs Gallastegui said earlier: this Parliament did not adopt an initiative too long ago to call for the decriminalisation of euthanasia and suicide assisted by amending the Criminal Code. When the time has come to legislate, the Basque Nationalist Party and EH Bildu have turned their backs and come to terms with a law that remains short. I believe that the question or the disjunctive is whether life belongs to us, belongs to us and we can dispose of it, or whether it has been given or imposed on us and, therefore, it is not up to us to decide what to do with it. I think this is the choice behind this debate: whether life belongs to us or whether we own our own life. We believe it is a right, not an obligation. And since we are supposedly free beings, we must be free to decide how to live and how to die better. The right to life should not be transformed into an obligation to live; that is, it was a right, not an obligation. And I add a phrase by Fernando Savater about which, if you want, you can reflect: "The question is not whether there is life after death, but that there is life before." Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u28	Thank you, President. With your permission, from the seat. Pretty soon. I think we're going to pass a good law, because it's going to advance patient rights in the final process of people's lives, of all of us, but I think, above all, we're going to pass a realistic law. The laws have to regulate what they can regulate, and there are issues they cannot regulate, and the Socialist Group's amendments cannot enter into a law without causing legal-political conflict. And, for that very reason, what must be advised to the parliamentary groups to defend this issue is to change what can be regulated where it can be done. Then, parliamentary actions in other places: in the Congress of Deputies, through initiatives of your parliamentary group (of initiatives of impulse) or of parliamentary initiative of this very Parliament. It would have to be in the next legislature, but where they can be changed. What we have focused on is making a law that advances, that improves the current situation in relation to professionals, with the system, with organizations, with patients, with the people around them, with the final process (that is clearer, more defined). That is the fundamental element. Having adopted the Socialist Group's amendments or having adopted some of the initial amendments of the EH Bildu group would have been not to make a good law, would have been to create a political conflict, a legal conflict, and, of course, would have been a step backwards. If you have to change something, change it where you can change it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u30	Thank you, President. Good morning again. It is a pity that I have to waste some of my time explaining to you, Mr Orbegozo, after all the meetings, what is the content of our amendments, because reading is clear, meridianly clear. But I will read it in case there is anyone who still doubts, because I believe that even the wording is absolutely frank, nothing farragoso and absolutely linear. We say in our amendment, one of the reserved ones: "All those who are in the final process of their lives have the right to the protection of their dignity... In particular, as a manifestation of the right to physical and moral integrity, your right to decide freely on the interventions and treatment to follow will be guaranteed", and include continued palliative sedation, which has been collected, and we medically help you to die. The medical help to die, from the legal point of view, in other laws, in comparative law, collected so expressly in laws that have euthanasia is... We then say: "The care consistent with medical help to die", which is assisted suicide and euthanasia, "will be guaranteed once the Penal Code is reformed, decriminalizing them" (assisted suicide and euthanasia). And the transitional arrangement. We will then speak from the point of view of the legislative procedure, the drafting of laws. I don't know where you've seen a problem, but I don't see any legal conflict. I have not seen anywhere that a transitional provision of the following tenor cannot be established: "Care consisting of medical assistance to die will be guaranteed once the Penal Code is reformed, decriminalizing euthanasia and the so-called 'assisted suicide', in accordance with article 6 of this law". I take it that after 85% of this Parliament decides that the Spanish Government should be ordered to change, this is going to happen – or not? – because, if not, for this trip we did not need so many saddlebags. I think this has become clear. From the legal point of view, I see no conflict in giving legal-formal form to a rule that will become part of this country's positive legal system. What's the matter? It's just, what is this? "A bed shall be guaranteed" not: "an attempt shall be made to guarantee". Are we also in a transitional period to guarantee beds? I believe, Mrs Ubera, that we must learn from the mistakes. And I could tell you a lot, and not very nice, about the comments you've made, but I'm going to focus on the main thing. I'm going to focus on the main thing, which is that you constantly talk about it being guaranteed. It is the only thing that has repeated as active and passive and as peripheral, that is so carried now; that guarantees the autonomy of the patient, of all the patients. If I, terminally ill, tell you to help me die, how do you guarantee my will? I just want you to answer me: how do you guarantee my will to die? how do you guarantee it? (I almost came out like Lola Flores: "How would I marvel at them?"). You don't guarantee it to me in any way. You have come down from where you had to stay, because we would have had a very progressive law that would have guaranteed the rights of all people. I'm sure there's a lot of people around you who aren't going to vote conscientiously what they should vote for. And you have not done what you had to do from a parliamentary point of view to seek the necessary consensus for this law to come forward. In fact, today I would have gone out with your votes, us and UPyD, but you have a problem talking to UPyD. Talking to UPyD gives you fewer problems than the problems of citizenship, translated into Esperanto. And those things piss me off. But what I want to tell you in the end is that you have come down from a law that guaranteed rights for people. And you don't tell me about the beret, nor about claiming rights to not know what in I don't know where, because you signed that transactional regarding the decriminalization of assisted suicide. And we also told him that we had no problem carrying a law of our own from Parliament, but that with the majorities we had that was impossible. Mrs. Ubera, that's the reason. Don't be a crook and say that what we didn't want was to pose a... We don't have any problems like that. What we want is to ensure that people live better, and in this case, that they die better. And you have to answer me how you guarantee the right of a person who wants to die, how you guarantee the right of a person who wants help to die; not that you want them to sit down, that you want help to die, because you say, "I don't want anymore. Listen to you, I don't want any more." How do you guarantee this right? How does this law guarantee it? If you explain it to me, I'll come back here and publicly tell you I think it's great and I'm confused. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u31	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u32	Mrs. Gallaustegui, calm down, don't be nervous. I don't know why it is, really: for the sake of the law and the content, or because you thought you were actually out of the picture. There's no one out of the photo. It's a mutual agreement. So it's okay. You see, the law which we are now going to accept has an important value and security, and is that it is acquired by consent and consent, by the consent of all, and that it inspires the preference, respect, and consideration of the will of the person. And in the articulation of the law there are qualities for that. And health professionals will have to apply treatments and paths for it. Which ones? It's the right thing for every person at any moment. That's it, and that's guaranteed. Later on, each one of us can do his own interpretations. And beyond this law there is another added value, and the means are established in order to develop this law and not stay in the drawer. Now let us hope that the Spanish Government does not resurrect this law, as it has done with others. Then, on the other hand, it seems to us ridiculous enough that it is really ridiculous to listen to a party who does not defend the right of decisions, that we want to limit the determination of persons to consider the person's will. I'd like to remember the words of the Mountain, the leader of the Social Party, right here: "No creo que se pueda ser demócrata y defender el derecho a decidir." Here, actions, not words, nor discourses. Every one expresses what he thinks of what he does, and from that point on the citizens will appreciate what they think best. PSOE Madrid, how many years has he been in the government? I don't remember. In the first legislation, who was here in the government? Mr. Lopez. What have you done? Nothing. You have done nothing for the Spanish people, aided by euthanasis and suicide, to desecrate those words, to change the Code of Punishment. You didn't do anything here to regulate people's rights and dignity and to guarantee them at the end of their lives. Eta, bestetik, ikusi besterik ez – irakurri nizuen hori ere – hauteskunde orokorretako programan eraman duzuena: "Promulgate a law of dignified death and palliative care. If there is a consensus on this in the next legislature, we will open the debate on euthanasia." Hau from Alderdi Sozialistak Madrilera was a duena. So now that we come to us with those radical defenses of eucanasia and aid suicide... Look, here we are the radicals. But what was the matter? To be of the Radicals, or to give an answer to the people? Put it in the file and you'll see what the corrections of each one have been. We sought to get him into the confession to Madrid, to eucalypize him, and to introduce him into the articulate, accompanied by eucanasia and suicide. There was no majority, we were alone. Mrs. Gallastrous read what their amendments were: "Coudo se desertion in Madrid." What we're not going to do is the laws here are to put our decisions under Madrid. We're quite conditioned to eat, and what we want is to decide our future, determine our life, and even our death, let's decide how we want to die. And we want to build this resolution with all of us, and by agreement, and from practicality. And this is another property in building this status. What's the most important thing? In a few words, when there's interpretations, you start a war? Or that to guarantee a man's will will will be respected, and that he will consider even at the end of his life? We've got it all figured out. We've got what we want. And again we shake hands with you. We've been doing this for two years, two years trying to find out the agreements. And besides, when I turned to you, "We'll do it later." "We'll do it later," and without closing anything, without making the agreement. And here it seems to me that we must be practical. And it's curious to say that we haven't worked, even in an UPD pony, when he hasn't been on a board, when he hasn't even been in this legislature, I don't know where he's been walking. So the charge could be better... Well, where have you been? Come and help, and we'd improve. But we haven't even had a chance to discuss and to improve. Besides, we'd send him a few minutes to look for half-way and agreements, and then we'd leave him, because we didn't get any answers back. And EH Collect, as has been said, had three ends, and we have accomplished these three ends. And again, I repeat, we shall continue to work in order to obtain the next, because in the way of absolute freedom, we really believe in respect of the will of men, because we really believe in the determination of men and of society, because we believe in democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u33	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u34	And for that, beyond the words, we need instruments. Today I think it's a day for joy and happiness. I want to thank you again for all the work we've done. For the first time, we shall have an instrument that raises and regulates rights and dignity, and imposes the means to do so, and it seems to me now that it is the work of all men to actually encourage them to develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Greene, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u36	Thanks again. I began to say, at the original intervention, that we have heard and fixed our corrections based on them, and what would have been our position in this law. Eta aipatu dut Simon jauna. Hain zuzen ere, ore izan dugun eztabaida berbera eduki genuen, edo behintzat zuk posetu zenion gizon horri, hau da, hasierako legea, Andaluziako Legea, sustatu zuen horri: "There are the limits of the Penal Code, etc. Is it possible to introduce a transitional provision for it to enter into force when the Criminal Code is amended, without the need to amend the law of the Basque Parliament?". He asked her the same thing. And he replied clearly: "If we introduce normative provisions regulating euthanasia and assisted suicide, it will be challenged directly." And he reminded him: "You have already called for that debate, there is already the non-legislative proposal urging Congress to amend the Penal Code. The introduction of transitional provisions does not know what legal route it has." But he also said: "Andalusian law does not regulate euthanasia and assisted suicide, because it cannot. Another thing is whether or not he wanted himself." And he reminded him: "In Andalusia we had a real will to legislate to improve the normative framework of care by assuming the limit of Article 143." But, besides, he added: "There is much to be done in the field of care at the end of life, without entering into the topic of debate on euthanasia and assisted suicide." He was in favour of opening the debate, as we are all, but it is more important to keep moving forward in improving care care. That, I believe, has been our group's objective in dealing with this law. In fact, he gave a very graphic example, the example of Belgium, in which he talked about that, once this kind of attention has been guaranteed, that everyone has guaranteed this attention, if there is someone who says "Enough!", he does, too. But the primary thing, the first thing, is that it has to exist, that the attention, the attention that we guarantee in this law must be guaranteed. The other one? I used to tell her. The amendment you are putting forward is read again: "Care consisting of medical aid to die will be guaranteed once the Penal Code is reformed". What does that mean? Why do you say that we are short, that this law is insufficient? But if you yourself put a condition (when the Penal Code is amended)! [[Berber]] Yes, but in the meantime, it would be the same as this law, as the law that is passed. So, that's what I'm talking about, that we don't really understand the meaning of this article. We do not understand the real objective of maintaining that position and, above all, of bringing this speech to this Parliament when it is not up to us. What we are not going to do is act forcefully, or lose ourselves in sterile debates, or in very emotional speeches that can stir applause, but that really do not lead to any practical application of any law. That's why I'm grateful to the team vote again. And just thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u37	Thank you, Mr. Orbez. Now that the discussion is over, we'll go to the vote. First, we vote for the Suscial Socialists, the reserved corrections made by the team, the articles of judgment. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; the 10ths, 16; the opponents, 54; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u38	The amendments, therefore, have not been admitted. Since the rest of the amendments have been withdrawn, and as they have not been admitted, all the articles will be voted together. All the articles in the law. Okay? We'll vote for all the articles. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u39	So all the articles were unanimously accepted. Next, he said, was an explanation. But first, we'll take 14 paragraphs. Popular party has asked us to draw 14 paragraphs. The 14th paragraph of his explanation. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, the 70s, 30s, the opposites 14; the whites, 0; abstaining, 26ths.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u40	So it's accepted. The explanation followed (in fact) and the name of the law will be voted. We can vote. [[Berber]] Excuse me. Paragraph 14 is what we voted on. Orduan, bozkatuko dugu zioen azalpena, the remaining part of paragraph 14. Bozkatu dezakegu. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, the 70s, 55; the opposites, 0; white, 0; abstentions, 15th.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u41	So it's accepted. And finally, we vote for the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 70; 70; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; 0; abstentions are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-07-08.u42	So the name of the law is unanimously accepted. Therefore, in the end trial of life, the law is approved to secure the rights and dignity of persons. Before it's over, it's an institutional expression. Institutional expression in the Globe of Compulsion on Population and development for an expression approved of by the security and commitment to the security and support of human development: "The parliamentary Act of Europe is the same as the parliamentary expression approved in the Global Parlamentarian Commercial Cultiation, which is prior to the G7 capitor of Tokyo, and of development. "The Basque Parliament endorses the parliamentary declaration adopted at the Global Parliamentary Conference on Population and Development, which is prior to the G7 Summit in Tokyo." The text is long and it's handy in the register. So since the list of subjects has been exhausted, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was twelve o'clock in the afternoon and eight.
