ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Silence, please. I remember that, after the fifth point, we shall discuss thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen points in the subject list. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of Mien Josununus Goroskape Eerkano Eubertarian Society, made of Ogasun and Finzi-Continis, of financial instruments." Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. President, chief of departments, good morning. Chief of the GAGAG, it's for you to ask our team today. We live in 2008, the international economic and financial crisis that we suffer... brought back a great descent from the financial sources of the Esucamia Espromi. He had done a special damage to the small and average company, the collective company of lonely companies and autonomous autonomouss and the survival of their short and middle-term lives. Considering the remarkable influence of this collective economic agency on a hundred companies, and of complete productive activity, it was necessary to establish provisional instruments, to lighten the financial necessities which they were in need of. In that sense, the plan of this legislation of EukMOY has a programming commitment with reconstruction of economics and a wager for productive economics and economics. It is contained in this goal that we can enable access to small and middle-class companies and autonomists. In the same vein, the programme of the Basque Government also envisages the objective of strengthening financial instruments for the productive economy in collaboration with financial institutions, in order to strengthen the financial capacity of Basque companies through credit lines, public guarantees and support for strategic projects. That's why, Mr. Chief, we'd like to know the size which Eubertarian Agrocists have developed during this Eugarchical economics during the course of this law, to strengthen the financial instruments that are in the service of productive economics. Thank you first for your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reply, Mr. Gazgaga-Gazgamary, Mr. Yahl's representative. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u3	Thank you, Congressman Josunus Gorospe. Look, when we were in charge of the government at the beginning of 2013, our producer economics was a terrible situation. We were in a notorious recess, raw internal product 2012. 2% was negative in the year; we had a great fall. At that moment, our small and average companies, that is, companies that are more than 99% of our financial fabric, were bad in the markets from the point of view of financial situation: the markets were closed, and there were great difficulties in the cause. In that context, we had more than 99%, small and medium companies. Between these small and averages, 94% are below workers, 5% between 10 and 50 workers, and only %1 is average companies between 50 and 250 workers, but only the big companies are in Basque. That's why we started a lot of tools or tools. It was the first, in our first days, for small, average, autonomous, physical corporations, a special business for their finances, a circuit and future months to develop investments. Third, we set up a series of terms for mutual support and support of union, to guarantee the lack of cause. These programs are general, open for all sorts of companies. Then we put in 2014 years, a special export program for our small and average companies, special financial facilities. And then, in the last months, in November, for example, we put a special program about our farm, our fishing, our forests, our food, the fishing, and the farming for the country, to survive this hundred economics. And then we've got two other programmes assigned for financial operations, technology, research, and innovation, for investments and circuits. Finally, at the end of a year and a half ago, we've added some new capital risk funded by the Department of Economics and the Treasury Department. Which shows we've put several tools on it. Fortunately today, after the European currency policy, the situation has changed, but when you remember, we think it's 99% of the smaller companies that we've been following up to the necessity. We've been keeping the program about small companies, autonomists and professionals this week, even though the state of financial trades has improved, and the rates of money have even been rated. But yet we leave them in force and keep them as a prop for our small and average companies, considering how high they are and what...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u4	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, as to the measures given by the Basque Council of the People's Pay-Reglection, by Leire Pinedo Bustamante EH Team." Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u5	Yes, good morning. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Mr. President. Tomorrow, February 20th, is the International Day of Social Justice. The other is the day when equity, equality, and social protection are established. Tomorrow is International Day for Social Justice, which has as its main objectives the eradication of poverty, full employment and decent work, gender equality and access to social welfare for all. We combine the Basque People from the Union with these ends, and it is clear that it is essential to accomplish these ends that we develop the proper policy of taxing them, and we are in it. But when you look at the data, there is no current system in this way. At the Basque Council of the Town Court last week, the one that had already foreseen in October was confirmed that the collection of taxes which had been planned for 2015 had not been completed. And, alas, the predictions of 2016 are also in danger. We say that the collection forecasts for 2016 are also in question, because they were made in October based on the same data that were used for the review of the 2015 closure, which has been proven, only in four months, wrong. We have heard the descriptions of not performing the predictions, all based on external factors: The state of the mundial economy, the price of fossil fuels... That's an influence, yes, but what can you decide here? What's the effect of the tax model? Is there not a defect in it? That's why we ask you this question, Mr. President. Did you see the disturbing developments of the tax collection in the American Basque Council, you think the real change in the tax policy is necessary?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u6	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. In reply, Mr. Gazgavary, who's a representative, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. What we saw at the Basque Council was that the predictions had not been completed, but that we had collected nearly 300 million more in the year 2015, measuring them with 2014. We must have a distinction that is important: Right taxes and indirect taxes. There is a general regulation in the surrounding taxations, which we have accustomed and united, and we have a regulator of power in direct taxations. We've got to keep them different. And each of them, either indirect or direct, is more or less supposed to be 50% of the collection in general. But in one we have the regulator of power, which is considerable enough, and in another we have no regulative power. We must observe the regulations of the general taxes of the state, though we have a care of managing them, and of continuing them. The increase of the funding has been 2,4, less in direct taxes than in indirect taxes. But we must note that there have been some factors. You mentioned some of them in indirect taxes, but we must consider them in direct taxations, in the year 2015, that there have been great reversals, and even in the course of the year. On the other hand, in the last quarter of 2015, great companies under the usual tax have diminished their payment, this payment, which has been greatly influenced, because these companies are taxed for the general type-that is to say, the above we have, the 28th. And that's got some effect. And in the last three months, it's been seen in November and December. And those are, as I said, the big companies under the usual tax, and this division of payment has been debased. That's the indirect tax. But there is another element: the affections have been diminished during the year, because the general rules of preserving the taxes upon the revenues have diminished those restraints which ought to be made. That had its effect, too. And the taxation on fuel has been a great influence on indirect taxes. Since this taxation has been rated, the collection has been diminished. The fuel consumption that is not connected to the price has been increased. It shows that the price is a great influence upon taxing. And in special taxes, for instance, that's not what happened. The consumer has also been raised and the number of taxations, but when it's tied, it's not. We believe that we must have a degree of stability two years ago, namely, in January two years ago, as you know, has been modified.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u8	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Mrs. Pindo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u9	Mr. Chief, I'm sure you've had $277 million less than you planned, and you're still keeping your prospects safe for 2016. Really, with the current fiscal policy and the economic situation we are living in, do you consider it prudent to anticipate multiplying the increase in revenue for 2015 by more than three, increasing revenue by more than EUR 880 million, when in 2015 it has not even reached EUR 300 million? Mr. Gatzaga, this tax model makes water everywhere. Here today he has repeated the same reasons that the deputy general of Bizkaia gave us to explain the famous increase of 0.5% in the collection of his territory. Why, if, in your opinion, the economy improves so much and everything is so well, does not the collection of corporate tax reflect it? Bad, dago clays, zerga hori zirrikituz dagoelako bete. Looking at the data of the three historical territorys, 10,4% of the collect of societary taxes has come down. And what about the tax on the estate? Well, 9 is down. And what's the most that goes up there? Well, as usual, PFSI, 4:9%. Always, the workers' necks. So it becomes more and more obvious to us that the model of taxation in force has failed, Mr. Gatzgabarria, that this form of tax agreed by EAJ and PSE is not to be given. For us, this is by no means a strong public policy, a system of taxation, which serves to make and to finish the estimates that answer social conditions. I have started today by mentioning social justice, and we regrettably note that this is not the priority of this Government, because it is once again opting for the passive role, as if this were not with it. Once again it makes clear that its only commitment is to the deficit limit, and its postal commitment is to the well-being of the citizenry. Go ahead, take up the challenge, stop making excuses, and look at something more than outside, because inside we have tools to make a good policy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u10	Thank you, Mrs. Pindo. Mr. Gashhousevary, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u11	Mrs. Pindo, as I said at the end of my last speech, we have our margins bigger in physical beings, our general types are bigger than the board. Sicave doesn't do the same thing in the state or here, we have the right of inheritance here, he doesn't exist in any other autonomous communities. Look, we got a minimum tax guy put on, that's not in the state.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u12	Thank you, Mr. Saltagabary. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, María Isabel Celaa Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, of the chief of Education, of Language and Cultural Division, about the denial of license in the compact centres." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u13	President, chief of department, señorías, good morning to all. The situation is described by the parents of the public school in Álava, referring particularly to Vitoria-Gasteiz: "There is a profound imbalance between the public and concerted networks of Vitoria-Gasteiz. While the public network is receiving in a majority the most disadvantaged population of the city and particularly the population of foreign origin, the concerted network is becoming a'refuge' for many middle- and middle-high-class indigenous families, so that there are centers that are turning their backs on the complex social reality of Vitoria-Gasteiz." Never before, ladies and gentlemen, had we heard a coral manifestation of this nature, nor had we ever before had we had a published finding, at least, of answers obtained by a mother of foreign origin on her militant journey in search of registration for her Muslim son. And he went to five concerted educational centers, and five centers responded to him like that. In the first: "No, religion is Christian; his son is Muslim. Not here." In the second: "His religion is Muslim, he already has public schools. Take him to a public center." In the third there was at first only one model D place – there should be at least seven – but at the next time or the next day there was no longer any. In the fourth, one hundred percent Christian-Catholic: "Go to a public school, we won't take it." In the fifth: "Do you know that here you have to pay?". With this behavior, the centers (some concerted centers, these concerted centers, if this reality is found) not only failed in the educational objectives, because the fundamental educational objective is coexistence, but also violated the law. In doing so, they violated the law. Because the law prevents, prohibits discriminatory criteria when it comes to admitting students. That is why I ask you, Mrs. Uriarte: Before this, how do you react? What are you going to do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u15	President of the Parliament, President, chief of the Department, members of the legislature, good morning. Madame Celacha, this government is opposed to all sorts of dissecting, whatever reason it may be (color, homeland, some incapacity, sex, etnic origin, or any other reason). And, of course, we'll do everything we can to avoid any discrimination attempt that can occur in the educational area. Therefore, when we make our licenses at some schools, we wish to encourage every person who has suffered a state of discrimination to know by official means. That's the right way to find trouble and solve it. As you say in justification of your question, the decline of foreign population has been remarkable since 2013. According to our data, there was no such thing: but the number of scholars from foreign origin has increased. Anyway, we're still working to promote more social cohesion and more co-operation in our schools.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u16	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u17	Do not believe, ma'am, that I do not recognize, that I do not consider the difficulty of the effort we are asking of you. I know him. But there has been an increase, there has been an increase in the concentration of immigration in the public school, particularly in the city of Vitoria, which is more difficult to deal with in educational institutions, since, as we know, the population of Vitoria is essentially of a different language from that of the school: it is of the Maghreb, it is African. There has been an increase in the last two courses, and this is the result of an exploitation provided by the Department of Education itself. Therefore, ma'am, we must not only work as we have been working, but with much more intensity, and you must identify and have a very serious conversation with the employers of the concerted centres, because conduct of this nature is expressly prohibited by our laws (by the Organic Law of the LOE, not modified by the Lomce in this respect) and by our decrees of the Basque Community, which strictly prohibit discriminatory criteria such as race, origin, language, income... Therefore, with the corresponding sanctions. We have to identify if these behaviors have occurred, we have to talk to the employers, we have to introduce criteria with Inspection to let them know...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u19	...the serious situation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Thank you. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u21	Mrs. Celaá, I must confess you're right. If the facts which have been accused were true, they would be unacceptable and unexplainable. Nevertheless, we have no certainty to say that the accusation mentioned at the present day is true. In truth, as there was no claim, we were connected with that person who accused him, to show his interest in the case, in order to receive information, and take it into his hands. I assure you, if we insist and encourage him to make a formal complaint, let us tell him in what school those pretended dissectings have been, this person has not wanted to complain. Perhaps that fact could be related to an article that we have been able to read on the Internet these days. I don't know if you know him, but, as that article points out – and I'm going to read it literally – Samira's case is the result of an experiment carried out by the Stee-Eilas union. I really hope that all this controversy wasn't the result of a union experiment. Anyway, we're still working. We work to ensure that all children, regardless of their origin, study and learn and live together in the centres on an equal basis, without distinction and with the respect that we all deserve. For this we have specific measures. And we are also working on the analysis and definition of concrete measures to respond to the various demands of society, the Parliament and the School Council, in order to solve a complex situation that has been taking place for years and which goes beyond the very scope of education. Among the measures that are being discussed, which we are working on, we can highlight the following: Review of the criteria of the school fees and homogenization of the same between territories; reserve of 10% increase that allows the decree of admission for the needs of the administration, among which priority is given to inclusion and social cohesion; greater inter-institutional coordination to solve this situation from a more global and eminently social perspective; impulse of all the plans that we have in progress to care for immigrant students, interculturality, diversity, linguistic reinforcement, etc., as defense of the strategic line of inclusive school set out in the Heziberri 2020 plan. The truth is, it's not a ballad theme. Nor is this a problem between concerted and public centres. It is a matter of concern to us and on which we have been working seriously, a situation of deep social roots in which we must work with specific ideas in the educational field, yes, but in a consensual and coordinated way with other institutional and social spheres.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Forth point on the theme list: "The question is, that the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Laura Garrido Körors are to refuse to give laws on matters essential to strengthen economic health." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Yesterday this Basque Parliament noted, with the votes of all the opposition groups except, of course, the group that supports the Government, the repeated breach of the commitments of the Basque Government in relation to the legislative timetable. To this day, five bills, out of the twenty-nine bills that were on the legislative calendar, are still in place, although the Government and the group that supports the Government are willing to do the trick and get involved in basic concepts, which I believe we all have very clear in this Parliament, in terms of the legislative activity and also the executive activity of the Government, which also includes the thrust of bills. Among the non-compliances we have found one, in the field of employment and the economy, quite worrying and, of course, symptomatic of where the priorities of this Government lie. We were recently told by Councillor Toña that, in relation to the Basque employment law, he resigned because there was not the necessary ambition, there had not been the necessary ambition, impossible in what was left of the legislature, that the initial draft was not adequate... Of course, Mr Toña, we must thank you for the sincerity of your words, although with that sincerity you have made it clear and in the place that belongs to the Government to which you belong. But there is another quite obvious non-compliance, which is the law on cooperatives, which has changed the date in the adaptations of the legislative calendar, but the first planned date was that of the first half of 2016. That law, that bill, is not yet in place. The Basque employment law is neither expected nor expected, but it is still, of course, we do not know whether we will be able to expect it, in a pioneering autonomous community in the field of co-operativeism, when we are all aware, and this Government should be aware of the weight of the social economy in our economy and of the need, of course, to boost and strengthen it. That is why we are asking you, Mr Toña, what are the reasons that have led this government to give up legislation on key issues for the consolidation of economic recovery in Euskadi, such as the boost of job creation or the dynamism of the social economy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u24	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u25	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. First of all, I need to find out that RedMork hasn't given up social economy dysmmizing or delicate stuff like the promotion of the job. In the Department of Employment and Social Policy we have not given up working so that we can have a basic text as a draft law, no, but, being true to reality, knowing the administrative procedure that is appropriate to resort to a draft law, I have recognized and acknowledge that I do not have the material time for this text to come to this Parliament before the end of the legislature. To honestly acknowledge our own limitations is an exercise that we must accept among all, and we must accept it as a value to all with all. I think this helps to improve our political and personal relationships between different people. The need to adapt the text of the Basque employment system to the higher regulations (the latter, the State Employment Act of 23 October last year, four months ago), and to have a text in which all parties are comfortable, and many, has led to the withdrawal of this draft from the legislative timetable, from the realistic perspective of the procedure to which I have previously referred. But I want to make it clear that we have not given up on its elaboration. In this process of elaboration we are prioritizing a reflexed gestation with all the agents, and consensual, of a Basque system of employment. It will be ready for processing in the coming months, even if it does not give us time in this legislature. As far as the social economy is concerned, as I suppose you know, the preliminary draft law on cooperatives in Euskadi is currently finalizing its internal procedure, with only the Cojua's opinion pending for approval by the Governing Council and its referral to this Parliament for processing, debate and approval.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u26	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u27	Thank you, Madam President. Worse, Mr Councillor and this Government, because the Basque employment law was planned in the first half of 2015, and we now have the Councillor who does not give him time. Therefore, this Government, when it anticipates compliance with its legislative timetable, makes very poor forecasts, or, of course, clearly lacks the truth, as we are seeing. As for the draft law on cooperatives, it is that the forecast in the legislative calendar spoke of the first half of 2014, and it is that we are in the first half of 2016. Two years late to bring the cooperative bill to this Parliament. I believe that the data speak for themselves, and of course evidence an absolute inaction of this government in the legislative management, renouncing these bills on key issues to strengthen the consolidation of economic recovery in Euskadi. And that the consolidation of economic recovery and the boost of employment were one of the challenges that the lehendakari marked for this legislature. For two fundamental laws, two fundamental tools, which were in their hands, to consolidate that economic recovery in Euskadi and not simply to live from the incomes of what other governments do, have not been put into practice. This is a new sign of a government that is on the sidelines of reality, a government that is more focused on propaganda, on self-bombing, on victimism, on escapism, or simply to settle for being more than on moving to action, and that simply lets itself be guided by the course of events. In short, a government that is knocked down, anesthetized, paralyzed, and shows a clear lack of ambition by not being able to fulfil its commitments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u28	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u29	Mrs Garrido, I said that we prioritize consensus. Laws without consensus are always unstable, and I only set the example of Minister Wert's Education Act. I insist that neither the Department of Employment and Social Policy nor this Government has given up working on the elaboration of a Basque employment law, nor on shaping a Basque employment system, nor on bringing a draft law on cooperatives to this Parliament before the end of this term. The continuing changes in state legislation, which oblige us, whether we like it or not, in this area have certainly also made it more complex. So we're working on a system that is taking its first steps and regulating by a regulation. We must stabilize the foundations of a Euscal employment system, stable and solid foundations, whether willing or not, and must be stable to the share, consistent, and unstable, situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u30	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Five point in theme list: "To ask you, Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto, a member of the U.UPyD team, concerning the danger and indifference of making a social security apart from the national Social Security." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u31	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Mr Lehendakari, your party, the Basque Nationalist Party, has again put on the table an old nationalist demand: the possible creation of a Basque social security, separate from the national one, in successive phases, which would include the transfer of economic management and subsequently the creation of a specific system, own, of protection in Euskadi and Navarre. A system which is not only empowered to collect contributions and pay pensions and other social benefits, but also governed by its own legislation independent of the national law. The nationalist claim is made public at a time relevant to Spanish politics and the governance of the country. Now that the socialist leader Pedro Sánchez apparently intends to be invested as president of Spain and form a more or less stable government, the role of the PNV can be decisive, and therefore could serve, as history has shown, to undermine the unity of the State and the majority of Spanish citizens, and to advance in the fragmentation and rupture of Spain in exchange for progress in the Basque self-government, and above all for progress in its own political and party interests. Therefore, it is essential to denounce such intentions: right to decide, new political status for Euskadi, political nation, social security of its own, are some of the demands that the Basque Nationalist Party has already put or will put on the political and negotiating table before or after. And since the outcome of these negotiations to form a government will directly affect the Basques, that is why we have to ask. According to experts, the estimated deficit for Social Security accounts in Euskadi would be EUR 2.5 billion. A system outside the state would be provisional for years and would not reduce the deficit. According to most studies, the mismatch between income and expenditure of the system will continue or even grow in the future. In other words, the proposal put forward by the Basque Nationalist Party would seriously harm Basque citizens. And, therefore, I ask you whether you are aware of the risk of making such a proposal, a nationalist proposal to content the nationalists, but which would ultimately harm everyone, all Basque citizens, nationalists and non-nationalists.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u32	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Thankfully, Mr Maneiro, the Basque Nationalist Party has gone from being irrelevant to being decisive. Good luck. It is a good thing that it is the Basque Nationalist Party that will, in any case, carry out a negotiation process with the political parties they are, and in any case also in the relationship with the Spanish Government, the Basque agenda. Basque agenda for the topics approved in Parliament. Of the topics approved in Parliament, Mr Maneiro. As a lehendakari, what I stand for is the position of the report on the viability of the social security system itself referred by the Basque Government to this Parliament's self-government presentation on 15 September. In this report we advocate taking over the management of the economic system of social security within its unitary character and respecting the principle of solidarity, all of which through a convention, as laid down in the fifth transitional provision of the Statute of Gernika. I remind you that the Statute is an organic law approved by the General Courts and endorsed by the citizenry thirty-six years ago, and article 18.2 (article 18.2 of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy) says that the management of the economic system of social security is the responsibility of this community. I would like to stress that the position I stand for is not only of the government, but of the Basque Parliament itself. It is an institutional demand, with legal support and full citizen support. It is an irrefutable competition for Euskadi. And I honestly see no risk that Basque institutions will manage social security. On the contrary, and to the evidence I refer: public management of health, education or social protection in Euskadi has not posed any risk to anything or anyone. It has been beneficial for Basque citizenship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u34	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u35	Mr Lehendakari, your agenda is the nationalist agenda; it is not the Basque agenda. And it also speaks of a report from part, not most of the reports that have been raised in recent times. And in any case we are not talking about compliance with the Gernika Statute, we are not talking about the management of the economic system of social security, which would not bring any benefit to Euskadi either, but about the objective of the Basque Nationalist Party to create a social security of its own and differentiated from the rest of Spain. That's why I asked you. And, therefore, what we are defending is the maintenance of the single social security fund, precisely to defend equality, to defend balance, to defend solidarity and to defend the strength of the system itself. We are not interested in splitting the State, but in strengthening unity and even expanding that unity. In fact, I think that the future should be a European social security. European. Add, add more contributors, add more citizens. That's what we're all interested in. Obviously, it is impossible to convince you of any of this. What I am asking of the People's Party and the Socialist Party is that in the coming months, in the coming years, they will not yield to the blackmail of the PNV.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Maneiro, the Basque agenda, as far as the approach of the Basque Nationalist Party to the negotiations, if any, for the formation of the Government of Spain, is based, as far as self-government is concerned, on what has been adopted in this Basque Parliament. In any case, do you report in part that the Basque Government delivered at Parliament's request on 15 September? See, the transfer of the economic system of social security by agreement was already raised to the previous Spanish Government, and logically it will be raised to the next. We are going to bring about an agreement, because we do not resign ourselves to the fact that the Statute remains unfulfilled. According to the Statute, and also according to the transitional fifth provision of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. I am aware of the difficulties facing the maintenance of social security. What I do not understand, however, is that there is talk of risk in relation to Euskadi and there is no talk of risk in relation to Spain, in the situation in which Spain is located. The individual guarantee of the people is greater if it is managed from Euskadi: 64 people out of every 100 contribute here, and in Spain only 57. More people making contributions today is synonymous with more pension resources tomorrow. Basque social security is a guarantee for pensions, and self-government is synonymous with well-being and quality of life. Therefore, in any case, the Basque institutions are ready to take over the management of the economic system of social security. This was agreed in the Statute, endorsed by the citizenry, and has been claimed by the Basque Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u38	Thank you, Mr. President. All thirteen, fourteen, and fifteen points will be discussed together. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interface, the Mist of Gorka Maniroy, a member of the House ofUPyD members of the House of Parliament for the president, the Euscalal Command of the Combats against the advertisement of the School Offices." fourteen points in theme list: "Interlation, the Law Member of the Artabats of the Artabats, made to the chief physician of Education, Language Policy, and Cultural, in the new state created by the fraud of the food-rooms." And the fifteenth point in the subject list: "Interlation, the author of the Oyarland de Euscal, the member of the Pogula team, the chief physician of education, politics, and Cultuation, the fraud of the public contract of the schools." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u39	Thank you, President. Mr. Lehendakari, let's begin by making a small summary of what happened, starting with the most recent. The Basque Competition Authority has issued a tough resolution, in which it considers that seven catering companies have acted as a cartel, distributing lots and fixing up the prices of the contests for the supply of the menus of the school dining rooms of the public network of the Basque Government. The sanction, the highest in the history of this body, exceeds 18 million euros. It has been shown that the prices were higher than those offered by these same companies to eaters from other school networks, up to 30%, and that there was a distribution of the lots. There is a case that a business group controls almost 60% of the public school catering awards. The Basque Competition Authority finds that this fact has been carried out for at least a decade, and that it cannot guarantee that such anti-competitive practices would not begin earlier. Throughout this time, no education department in the Basque Government has done anything to correct all this, so that it can be investigated and, of course, denounced. The counselor (the current counsellor) said, after hearing this ruling, that what happened was serious, because they benefited to the maximum of the bidding price for ten years. It is still curious that the person responsible for the call, approving the bases, developing and awarding the competitions, says that it is serious that the performance of a cartel that has been inflating prices, manipulating the whole process, dividing the market and taking advantage of the lack of control, at least, of the administration that it runs. At least there has been, therefore, a lack of clear control. Unless the person in charge is a server, counselor! Someone will have to be responsible for this, and you are responsible for Education in the Basque Government. I'm telling you this because you're saying that not with your head, and obviously there will be someone responsible. You also pointed out, Madam Counsellor, that families have not been harmed, as they pay an established fee in advance of the award price of the contests, which is 65 % of the total price of the menu. However, the Basque Competition Authority itself points out that it is hardly sustainable that, if there has been an overprice, it has not had any impact on families. This is totally logical, because if the menu had been cheaper, the government would surely have been able to reduce the price charged to families by up to 30%, and would have had to pay many thousands less euros in the aid it provides to the most needy and least resourced families. It is very serious that the Government has paid about 200 million more during this decade that the Basque Competition Authority has investigated, to which we would have to add several million more that could have been saved, as we said, in those dining grants. The Basque Competition Authority also points out that "we have not considered that the Government has a direct responsibility for the existence of the cartel". This is also said by the Basque Competition Authority, this possible direct responsibility of the Government has not been credited. But the fact that such a fact has not been established, of course, does not mean that it has not been directly responsible. In any case, in any case... in any case, it is possible that something has to be done from this Parliament to thoroughly investigate these facts. I suppose, Mr Lehendakari, that, in the end, you will not be afraid that a committee of inquiry might even be set up to analyse what has happened during all these years, whether we are talking about lack of control, about the loss of public money, about waste, or if we are talking about something else, who knows. Let's go look into it. And suspicions there are, serious suspicions. From the moment a system of accreditation of the supplying companies was imposed prior to being able to compete – a system that controlled a laboratory year after year without the necessary certificates to be an approval company and a single official without specific preparation in the matter – the suspicions are more than well founded. But the serious thing is that this fact has been repeatedly denounced for years by other companies that could not enter the distribution of that competition because they were not even approved. And the Government always listened deafly to these allegations, the Government looked elsewhere, did not want to investigate, did not respond to these complaints properly. The suspicions that there has been a great scam here are more than widespread in society, and not precisely now that they have been ratified by the resolution of the Basque Competition Authority. The suspicions were earlier, and have now been ratified by the resolution of the Basque Competition Authority. But suspicions come from years ago, and the government has not moved a finger to avoid it. The truth is that it has allowed this problem to be perpetuated over time. Nothing has been done for many years to prevent what has actually come out of the Basque Competition Authority itself. In any case, beyond the suspicions that each one of us can have, what we want to know today, and we would like to know it by the mouth of the lehendakari, since the gravity of the matter goes beyond the counselor herself, is what the Government will do to prevent the school cafeteria cartel from continuing to function, with the consequent economic damage to both the administration and the families. We want to know what measures will be taken immediately so that the next course does not happen what has been happening for a decade. What the government is going to do to stop this business pool from deceiving the administration, to really restore competition, to open up new businesses. What will the Government do with this pre-contest approval system if closed lots are to continue to be fixed. There's a long one and so on. And to what will those 18 million euros be allocated, that fine imposed by the Basque Competition Authority on these companies. Anyway, what the government is going to do, how it's going to react. Bearing in mind that in previous years he has not done much, but rather nothing, apart from looking elsewhere, it is obvious that we now have to ask what he is going to do, what responsibilities he is going to assume, apart from smiling when asked about these facts. This is what we basically want to know. There are more groups that are going to ask about this issue. It is a scandal that has come to public opinion, and obviously the Government (the councillor, the lehendakari or whoever it is) has an obligation to explain to us groups and society how it will react to these facts, what will be done, what will be done, what responsibilities will be assumed, and, if so, whether you would be willing to launch a more in-depth investigation to clarify any kind of doubt we might have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u41	Good morning, everyone. The Euscalal Command has fined 18 million euros to the catering companies who have served for the dining room service in the schools for the distribution of the market for at least ten years. And, oh no, he's created a top-up, and that overwrought's gone to fun, that's to say, to all the people, and to the parents of the students. That's just a little bit what the Euskal Command of the competition has said: tell them that 854 million euros have been assigned for the last ten years and that there has been a fraud of 200 million dollars, and that where there is a $200 million fraud, there is a fine of 16 million. Someone's gonna say that this business is a round one, making 200 million frauds and paying $16 million fines isn't bad at all. The fact is that this has been paid from the citizen's pocket and that the parents have been injured twice. And as we've heard from fun, it's easy to say that the price paid by my parents has nothing to do with what's paid to the catering-pres. We see that's an easy way to wash your hands. Catersing business workers have also lived difficult times, and it must be said that 40 days' employment was also made for the catersing corporations because their economic conditions seemed too much. And now it's obvious that it's the only one that was too excessive is the insatiable greed for the caterings. And after we've met the Euskal Commandal fine of the competition, we've seen it from fun saying that with the new appeal made last year all was settled, and we've heard and seen it in different media. We must inform you that this is not so, Mrs. even during the last year's summons, we see that there was a fraud in that appeal which you have so highly praised. Yes, I'd like to observe this last year's call, and I'll quote several of them: on the one hand, the entrance to the new catersing companies has been difficult, because they have been asked for very high volumes of billing, which, in a way, serves, since they have already been serving, but the entry of a new one is checked. In order to assign a lot, at least, it was considered necessary to introduce two companies. But there's been a lot of cracks in it, that is, companies of the same group have been treated like different corporations, and inside the neighborhood community, Magui and Goñi companies have been treated like different corporations, and a false competition with the same property has gone wrong. All the menus were distributed during last year's call. He put the maximum price in 2,77 euros for the delivered menus. And from these 18 temples, we can see at 12 that various catersing companies have been introduced, that there has been competition, and that the prices which at last have been assigned to them have been between 2,30 and 2,50 euros, a fairly low descent from maximo (2,77). On the other hand, we see that in the five other temples there has been no competition. These five other temples have been assigned at high prices, and here we see a certain separation. Among these five temples there is a state of false competition between the members of the same property. Two companies, two companies of the same property, and there's no competition between the same companies. It is also pleasant that it happened in the ninth treaty: here two companies have competed, one of them, the first in the contest, and the other, which was always there. They both knew that they were the only ones who would compete in that ninth lot, and the company who had always been there has just dropped its bid just at 2,26 euros (a lower than any other bond). And, of course, he wanted to prevent the new company from entering, and, of course, he's made it at the lowest price in 2,26. Here, yes, there has been competition. And then the 10th night. The only company to this lot was introduced, so it wasn't committed. What does that mean? Well, he's been assigned to the company five years ago that he's already got a contract. I mean, the Dececal Command of the competition decided there was a fraud contract, which was held out now. It is evident, Mrs. Uriart, that we are still far from repairing the situation, far away, and that during last year's summons you have been able to close all the gaps to the fraud, but that you have not been able to do so. And seeing that for the last ten years it's been a phony, somewhere, even last year, what's your idea? Doesn't it bother you if you leave it in the hands of the 99-end-enpres of the schools on the public network, leaving it in the hands of these 99% companies? What measures are you planning to take?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u43	Thank you very much, Madam President. Lehendakari, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a scandal of enormous proportions, of millionaire proportions. I briefly, in a minute, want to remember one person, the person who brought this matter to this Parliament, a Basque businessman at the head of a family business, who, harassed by cancer and when he had little to gain, came to explain to us exactly what was going on. Years watching other companies refuse to participate in this school dining contract, he went to a notary in 2011 to say, "Hey, look, in the next school dining contest these companies are going to win the lots, and with this price in each of the lots," and it turns out that that was exactly what happened, what he said in the notary. This businessman, who was called Joaquín Arratibel, has passed away, and I would like to recall here today that thanks to him we are talking about this matter and highlighting a matter of corruption that affects the largest contract of the Department of Education of the Basque Government. The Competition Court has already spoken, then we are not under suspicion, we are already assessing facts, irregularities that have their origin in the very recruitment system established by the Basque Government as early as 1997. We are not even talking about the last eight or the last ten years, which is what the Competition Court has been dealing with. The Competition Court has assessed the facts that have been reported over a specific period of years, but to nothing that we seek we go to 1997. We find that since 1997, ladies and gentlemen, the same companies have carried all the contracts, the same year after year for eighteen years, not only the ten years of which the complaint of the Competition Court is dealt with, and always at the maximum bid price. Curiously, not even the technicians who supervised the process, always the same technicians... What a coincidence, always the same technicians since 1997... Look, the advisors have changed, the governments have changed, the parties have changed at the head of the department: always the same technicians for eighteen years, and always awarding to the same companies. No one, none of these technicians at the recruitment desk drew the attention that were year after year, competition after competition, the same companies, and at maximum price, the ones that were carried out the contracts. How curious! Everything in this matter, ladies and gentlemen, is atypical and irregular. And this is the public contract, as I told you, with the largest volume of the Department of Education. A process designed from the beginning for fraud in its initial phase, the validation of companies. Because here a model of pre-filtered procurement is stipulated: it is established that a private company (a private company, ladies and gentlemen) will examine and decide which companies can compete and submit to the contract. That is, a filter is established, and, incidentally, as a company responsible for evaluating and deciding who can participate has always been chosen the same, for eighteen years. Araba Laboratories, the same laboratories chosen to filter this contest for eighteen years. Casually, he always won the previous Arab Laboratories competition. Casuality. He has been a private consultant; Arab Laboratories, has advised several of the companies carrying out the contracts. Casuality. The usual practice in this type of type-approval undertaking is that the training of the audit team is duly accredited. It was also found that neither the technician of the Basque Government was accredited to the affection, nor the Arab Laboratories company had accreditation to approve the companies. A scandal of enormous proportions. Randomly, Arab Laboratories was not registered in the registry of certified companies authorized to audit quality systems. What a coincidence! This company, which does not have the level of accreditation, is the one that the Basque Government chooses for eighteen years to use as a filter in this recruitment. And casually the people who verify by the department the facilities to carry out the approval of the companies... Mr Javier Arrese, a technician from the Basque Government, who turns out to be a computer scientist, is the one appointed by the Basque Government to approve and qualify companies in relation to their quality in order to be able to offer the services of school eaters. What a coincidence, ladies and gentlemen. The same lots to the same companies year after year. The Basque Government paid 30% more than the market price. The Basque Government paid 30% more than the agreed schools paid. Hey, an Ikastola paid less, buying 200 menus, than the Basque government buying 95,000. Listen, and eighteen years later no one from the Basque Government was surprised, neither the technicians nor the company that made the filter, nor the department itself, when companies that had tried to participate and locked the door to them had been denouncing it since 2004, competition 2007, 2011 (they go to the notary and say "Hey, this is going to happen", and happens)... , 2011, and we continue like this until 2015. It was public and notorious, ladies and gentlemen, that this was happening, and from the Basque Government it looked elsewhere. No one was surprised, apparently, that this could be happening. They had nothing else to worry about! The biggest contract... not one of the Department of Education's contracts, but the department's biggest contract, on which there were suspicions, and no one noticed that the same companies were running... Listen, by chance, of the seven companies that take it raw, three belong to the same group, have the same share capital, Grupo Mondragon. There has indeed been a favourable treatment here, there has been complicity to benefit companies, causing a millionaire breakdown to the public coffers, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lehendakari and Mrs. Counsellor. The public interest, Mr Erkoreka, who came to the media the other day to say no, that this to the families, or to the public interest, had not provoked them... No, no! The only one injured is the Basque Government. It must be that the money of the Basque Government is yours, or of the councillor herself, who yesterday in the media also said that there had been no breakdown for Basque society or families. No, no! Hey, whose Basque government money is it, more than the Basque families? Look, everybody's been getting caught up in this, because more than 200 million has been being paid...; in contracts where these companies have billed more than 800 million euros, they have carried more than 200 million euros of public money crudely over and over. There has been a breakdown in the public coffers, and of course it has harmed the families of the public centres that take their children to those school canteens, because of course, in these years of crisis, when they have been claiming reductions in the rate of school canteens, of course it would have been possible to reduce by 30% the rate paid by families in school canteens, if the suspicions that had been put on the table for years in this Parliament had been met. It has had to be the Court of Competition that tells you that this was already a scandal, that fines companies, but with a joke, 18 million euros, when you have been putting in your pocket two hundred and millions of euros that did not correspond to them. The joke has come off them, the fine has come off very cheaply: 18 million euros; 6 million euros to one of the companies, the highest, the largest. Last year with this he won more than 8 million euros, just with this in a year, and it's been eighteen years. It is clear that progress in the process requires accountability from the Government. That's what we understand. A huge fraud operation, which has produced an extraordinary and illicit benefit to certain companies. I'm no longer here to discuss whether the middlemen have put their hands in the drawer, whether they've put the casket, whether there's been corruption of people here... What has happened is negligence on the part of the Government, by action or omission. Indeed, there is the responsibility of the Government, because someone will have to watch over public contracts! Someone will have to watch! In addition to parliamentarians, the Government, the department's officials will have to take care of it. And I'm convinced, I'm convinced it's left to be done. I am convinced that this process could not have materialized without the cooperation or consent of public officials. It is impossible for 18 years for the same companies to carry the Department of Education's main contracts at maximum price, paying a 30% surcharge on the market price, without anyone saying anything. It is impossible that this has occurred without any kind of action or omission, without this practice being made possible by the Department of Education itself. That is why it is essential for the Government to tell us what it is going to do, what it is going to demand from companies, what it is going to do from now on with those responsible for this whole procedure for so many years. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u44	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u45	Mr. President, president, chief officers, members of the legislature, good morning. I shall answer in one manifestation all the interpelations which have been made about the public contractation of schools, which agree with this subject, the Popular Party, EH Collect, and UPyD. As a starting-point, I entirely agree that the Administration has been injured by the Euscalal authorities, owing to the treatment of catersing, which has been studied by the Catersels. Many have been written, and many opinions have been heard in the last few weeks about this subject, and I am extremely grateful to this day that I have an opportunity to explain to society what has happened in this legislature. I really think it's the right thing to solve. First of all, two important details: first, the very essence of the matter. There's been a colusium ceremony in the Euskal command that has been punished, and that's where the Administration has been damaged before. This conduct, in the opinion of the agency, or of the authority, has been introduced by companies to divide the market among themselves, and the result of this has been to change the normal function of the public contract. Oh yes, guztiz berizi behar will say jokabidea age kontratzio-prozedura. Jakina denez, azken hau (contratazio-prozedura) araudi zorrotz eta bermazzaile baten menpe dago. In other words, the performance of companies must be clearly differentiated from the contractual procedure, which, as is well known, is governed by very comprehensive and guaranteed rules. And the second: this government has been the first and only one that has changed the recruitment system that was established following the regulation of direct management canteens in 2000. Indeed, we warned of a margin of improvement and committed it. As a result, we have managed to break the supposed market-sharing agreement, which was undoubtedly detrimental to the general interest. So, with regard to the measures to be taken by the Basque Government, I think it is very clear that this Government has already acted. It had already taken action prior to the resolution of the Basque Competition Authority. As I pointed out, I understand that the issue needs to be explained. Our society deserves to know clearly what has happened. To this end, we must go back to the year 2000, in which, by order of the then Education Adviser, the management of the school dining rooms was regulated. Regulation that is maintained to this day. This was due to the response to a context marked by the emergence of so-called complementary services. Services that were largely managed through the voluntary work of parents. It could be seen that there was a huge diversity and heterogeneity; that there were differences in the contracts of the workers, of the people who were in charge of the service, of the operating costs, of the quotas, of the provision of the service itself, etc. Therefore, it was based on a provision of catering services whose case studies were generating some situations and consequences that were not always desirable in general, but even less so when it comes to managing public resources. At that time, the Administration itself warned of the need for a more egalitarian, equitable and homogeneous dining management system. This situation has led to the analysis and regulation, in our view with good judgment, of a procedure for the management of unitary canteens and ensuring equality in its management. This form of management, which is currently in place, focuses on the need to ensure the safety and health of our children. Mr. Lazarobaster, under no circumstances can we speak of failure. Evidence of this is that there are no cases of problems arising from dining services that result in the health of boys and girls. However, this Government knows how to listen, and is always ready to improve. For this reason, under the demand of the legislature, the government is working in a pilot's project, in a careful manner. Soon, at four public schools, the local parents will begin to manage the dining room service, co-ordinated with education. This plan is already known, and it also has EHIGE's collaboration. The object of this plan is to examine theability of a different management of restaurants, which will be performed at the school itself, independent of what the Administration does. The results we get there will show us if it's possible to encourage a change in the management model. Government will account for these experiences, so far as they secure the health of our children; this side of health, we cannot abandon. I'd like to highlight something about this subject: the study of new methods for the function and management of restaurants is by no means due to the failure of the system. Quite otherwise: The division is supposed to be the best example of direct management and the most sanitative security of the students who use the dining-rooms. But, as I have said, the department is ready to hear and examine different requests, and is also in this subject. However, I'd like to insist that this pilot of the project is running a very difficult job. It has a great deal of difficulty on the side of the administration, as well as on the authority of the father-in-laws of the centres, and even at the time of defining exactly what the product of the place is. We've been working around the local product with the Department of Economics and competency, with Farm Farm Farm Farm Farms, where our purpose is to study all the possibilities that this road offers. On the other hand, I think it's important to remark that the providers of those schools should be previously homologous. The school itself ought to be sure that they fulfil all conditions and duties, and that they ought to set up the purchase specifications of first-matters and given foods. In another instance of Parliament, as mentioned, it presupposes a profound change in the system of the administrative administration which is requested in an unlawful proposal: the parent associations ought to take care of dispersal, security, and all the guarantees of hygiene, and they would also be responsible for the multiplicity of menus and all sorts of diets. They'd have to ensure the cleanness of kitchen equipment, dishes, and ships, and take care of economic management. On the other hand, it must be observed that there are also kitchen workers dependent on the Board of Education. We think those workers should follow. Some unions have come to support this union when we've had the opportunity to talk about it. As I said, the department has worked and is working with the parent unions with EHIGE. And now, strictly and simply, they ask us to change the whole system of management from top to bottom, although we know very well, because we are working together, how difficult it is to set up a project of this size. As regards the public procurement of school canteens, various procurement files have been processed and investigated by the Basque Competition Authority. From the very beginning, this entity has relied on the cooperation of our department, as the first injured in the face of a possible anti-competitive practice. As I said, a wrong message has been moved, although I hope it has not been intended, by imputing to the Government a practice which, according to the Basque Competition Authority, refers to the distribution of the market by catering companies, obviously an action of the companies. The Basque Government, the current one, and I understand that previous Governments, have engaged in the procurement of the necessary services for the provision of the dining room service in public centres with absolute respect for the principles governing public procurement, which are endorsed by the mandatory legal and technical reports. As you are well aware, the contractual procedure requires a whole series of formalities and guarantees of legality in which the public authorities must be – and this government is – very scrupulous. The department that I run committed itself already in 2014 to the elaboration of new brochures that regulate the contract for the provision of school meals. Let us remember that until the 2014-2015 school year, the contract signed in 2011, that is, in the previous legislature, was in force. On the first occasion, therefore, there is a new procurement procedure which substantially modifies the previous ones, all because we understood that there was room for improvement in the procurement process itself. This new form of recruitment was announced by myself to this Parliament in a control session held on 28 November 2014, and presented in more detail to the Education Committee on 22 April 2015. The procedure guarantees the principles of freedom of access to tenders; publicity and transparency in procedures; non-discrimination and equal treatment of candidates; effectiveness and efficiency in the use of public resources; the safeguarding of free competition; and the choice of the most advantageous offer, without prejudice to the quality of the provision of the service and within the framework of existing public procurement legislation. Our procedure and its characteristics revolve around the idea of guaranteeing the provision of catering services to our students with the highest quality, safety and hygiene conditions. And yes, gentlemen, that's our obsession, no other. But it is also intended to enable companies to participate more and, of course, to distribute more in the award. To this end, and as more significant changes to previous contracts, we can highlight the increase in the number of lots of tenders, from ten to eighteen; lots of different volumes, to facilitate the participation of different companies from the point of view of their capacity. For further guarantees, a minimum of two bids are required for each lot. If not, the lot remains deserted and has to be rebidden, as has happened in one case. And in this case – Mr.Lazarobaster is right – there has been a contract extension until the new tender comes out. It can't be any other way. Further guarantees are also introduced in the rating of technical solvency, including the incorporation of an external auditor. In this procedure, all the companies that submitted to the tender went through the first phase, including Aibak, which relates to the assessment of solvency. The new procedure has therefore ensured competition and the need for competition between potential tenderers. We are aware that the process is complex, and that a thousand aspects and interests are thus crossed. The cost of service has been greatly shaken these days, and the influence which families have on the costs of paying. In this sense, it's important to note that when we're talking about the preparation of food and the service of the guardians. As for the kitchen workers for food preparation, these may be externals or employees of the department. The bureau has about 350 employees for cooking. As for the boarders, keeping order in the dining room when the students are in the dining room and watch over the rest of the meal when they're in the dining room and after lunch, they're worried about putting food on the table and receiving it, and keeping the student's intervention on fire. The dining room service is composed of help system. For the help of instruction is contained among concepts, as well as the help of dining-room and the system of compensation, in education the criterion of equality and equity helps to maintain it. Unibertsitate kanpoko ikasleak eskolatzeko ikasketa-beka eta -laguntzetarako urtero argitaratzen den deialdiaren bidez jantoki-osagaia ematen da, beast beast. Thus, in the course of 2014-2015, almost 45,000 students from the public school, of those 93,000, did not have to make any subscriptions to this concept. There were 28.4 million scholarships on the public network. This Government has taken special care of this area and, in fact, the 2013-2014 call increased the amount of the food grant component. To conclude, this Government, and I understand that the previous ones, have sought to ensure a service of school eaters with adequate quality and food security, through a recruitment process governed by the principles of publicity, transparency and competition. And, again, the Basque Competition Authority has decided on possible practices contrary to competition to the detriment of the general interest. There is a violation of the Government's own legal control, and of course they are complete. On the other hand, you ask us what the government will do to prevent us from working on the dining-room posters. As the Mayor of Erkora said the other day, about the question that the government will act in the trial or take any extra measures, it's more likely that the Basque Authority is an autonomous organization and that its members are assigned by the Euskal Authority. When the reports get the resources, it's the legal services of the Basque Maddin to defend those reports in front of the courts, so we can defend the value of the agreement and its legality, and if someone invades them, it's a matter of personliness. To conclude, I hope, after this appearance, that after the last contract has been introduced, there is no practice against free competition. And I repeat again: I hope that after this intervention it has become minimally clear to you that, with the entry into force of the last contract, there is no practice contrary to free competition.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u47	Yes, thank you, President. Madam Counsellor, it has been a number of different groups that have raised this same issue, as a result of the concern that this issue is causing us, and with the aim of the Government doing everything possible to avoid these practices in the future, and of course to assume all the corresponding responsibilities in relation to what has been done in the past or what has not been done in the past to prevent these fraudulent practices, which at the end of the day is the objective of the groups that have raised these questions. Finally, it seems clear that this Government, but not only this Government, but also the previous governments, erred at least in its way of proceeding, and allowed, by action or omission, this scam to be carried out. And, of course, we are not responsible for this by parliamentary groups, but mainly by the Government, and in particular by the education departments of this Government and of the previous governments, because, as I say, they have erred in their way of proceeding and allowed, by action or omission, this scam. We are talking about favour treatment received by certain companies; we are talking about alleged or possible complicity on the part of certain elements of the administration; we are talking about serious negligence; we are talking about a clear inaction in the control action by the Basque Government, long years during which these forms of action took place; we are talking about a breakdown of public money (a breakdown of public money), and we are talking about thousands of families who have been harmed as a result of these fraudulent practices. And, of course, all this requires the assumption of responsibilities and profound changes, not cosmetic, and complete, not insufficient, in the way we proceed. You come to say that you have collaborated with the Basque Competition Authority, however, it is the least that could be demanded of you. The point is what you've done before, for many years, to prevent this scam, and in sight it's that you didn't do anything, and it gives the feeling that you, you, various governments, various departments, in fact what you did was allow this scam to continue over time. Finally, I believe that this Government should seek compensation in the courts for damages to these companies. We are talking about an unbearable breach of public money, some very high figures, and therefore this is one of the first things that this Government should do to settle this capital fraud, an illegal practice that apparently went unnoticed to several departments of several governments, in the hands of several different political parties. And this certainly draws attention, that these facts went unnoticed not only for this department, but for previous departments. Obviously, there will also be some kind of political responsibility for this same Government and, as I say, for previous governments. The Government shields itself from changing the award system, but the fact is that this supposed change did not substantially change the system. It was changed so that everything remained essentially the same, and it continued to allow for the scam and the existence of the cartel of companies that agreed on prices and shared the market. Therefore, in substance, this change that you sell as a total change, which supposedly cleansed previous practices, has not really been such, and over the last few times has continued to allow this way of proceeding. In any case, beyond the fact that a committee of inquiry can be set up in this Parliament, we are going to propose a motion, a motion to ask the Government to amend the system of awarding the school menu service in the public education network in order to avoid fraud. We will ask the Government to also respect the decision of the school communities to choose the dining room service model they want to establish at their centre. We will also ask the government that the fine of EUR 18 million imposed by the Basque Competition Authority on companies has a direct impact on the dining rooms of public schools. And we are also going to ask for a thorough investigation of the contracting companies. This is all we're gonna ask. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u48	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Your time is up. Mr. Lazarusster, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u49	Ms. Uriart, knowing that the Basque Authority had opened an investigation because of fraud, knowing you had to make a new contract, knowing that in this new contract you had a large political protection in this legislation to bring down the foundations, in spite of this, the door has been left open during last year's appeal. And again shall I say: The fight between the same corporations with the same property enabled you to win from fun last year, which is very serious, it's very serious. And you mention today that there has been no practice against free competition during last year's appeals. And we've made some numbers on our side, some calculations on these pages, and, well, we can see that with last year's call, it's over $7 million, but, on the other hand, it's not over 3 million, because the doors are left open to fraud and the catering companies that are living are used to it, and that's serious. And if anyone wants to see what these calculations are based on, he'll have these pages made available. And if anything is clear, Mrs. Uriart, that the catering-based dining model has failed in the past few decades, management with 99% of the food tanks has failed, and that the mega-presies with the caters failed. And it's time to reflect on this new situation. It's not possible that parents pay 65% of the dining room service, but then they don't have any decision about this service. It is necessary for the schools to choose their models of management and to be able to develop these patterns, and to always respect the requirements of the workers' work. They have to be allowed to interact with the little farmers, fishermen, traders, to start local dynamics, and encourage local economy itself. Mrs. Orriart, in the management of the dining room, we must give the schools protagonism. The nourishment of the children and young is important, and we must leave what is now purely business as far as possible. And I repeat, it is time to reflect, it is time for us to gather together with the operators about the eating-rooms, and to examine and set up various possibilities. And you mentioned that in your interference your project has difficulty getting started. Of course, all changes make their difficulties, and that's the way it is. But the greatest difficulty and no doubt it's just the stuning attitude to that pilot project. And everything we've seen with catering-pres would have to turn that pilot into some kind of off-to-do project, and that's what we encourage you to do. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. Lazarus. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u51	Madam Counsellor, Mr Lehendakari. You say that as soon as you saw this you proceeded to change the model and the system. Look, it's shielded from the Competition Authority, which only tells us if there's been a concerted venture, but it's because we ask you for responsibilities over everything that's happened in the procedure. I've told him and you know him, and he doesn't tell us anything about why that was happening for eighteen years: why the same lab, why the same technician, why those who didn't meet the conditions were always responsible for making the decisions. Why was that allowed, Counselor? And look, you think we're fools, because you say, "No, we've already taken action, we've changed the system to ensure free competition." You think we're fools, because you think we don't look at our papers. And we've looked at what you've done. Last contract, 2011, because here, gentlemen of Bildu, gentlemen of UPyD, it is not year by year, this is not "for the next course we change it". No, no. These are contracts for four years (two years, plus two extensions). The last one, from 2011. And you changed it, you had the opportunity, because we've been saying since 2013 that we had to change it, and the model you did in 2015 is not to solve the problem. They have made a tailor-made system to continue to benefit the same companies. Madam Counsellor and Mr Lehendakari, in the system you have changed, do you know who took the eighteen lots? They have changed, ten lots have divided them into eighteen. Do you know which companies took the eighteen lots? The same six companies fined by the Competition Court. Not a different one, not a different one. The same six companies. And what have you done? Wear the matter to make it seem more reasonable. You have removed Arab Laboratories because I was singing that they were eighteen years old deciding the same on the matter, and you have changed the conditions so that, even if you put me, even if you put me as a filter, I cannot filter. Because you have changed the conditions according to those companies, so that, even though you have now placed Aenor, that you may be given the appearance of solvency... They have put Aenor, and Aenor has been able to do nothing but comply with the conditions that you have made so that it remains the same six companies that take it raw. And do you know how you took it this time, in the model that you have changed, in this model, knowing what was going on? Well, out of the eighteen lots, half at the highest price. And do you know what happened, you who say you brought a new model for free competition, and that you have demanded a series of conditions...? Yeah, you know what they demanded? To be able to participate, you have to have a millionaire billing. No small and medium-sized Basque company can participate. But neither does any of the greats of the neighbouring autonomous communities come here, none of the great companies that can enter this contest comes, because they know it's rigged. No big company comes, and you have closed the door to small and medium-sized Basque companies. You know why? Because you say that to compete in each lot you require two different companies to participate, and do you know how many lots the same companies have participated in? In five of the lots the companies belonging to the same group, companies with the same share capital, have participated. That's not free competition. You have tried to wear the doll, and in the lots two participated but are the same, are companies of the same owner. That's just to disguise. Listen, and in a lot where there hasn't even been two companies, Auzolan has been involved. They've left it deserted, and they don't know who decided to keep doing it? Auzolan, who was the one who did it before, and at the highest price. I mean, you, in what you leave behind, allow me to continue to do that before and at the highest price. They allow companies belonging to the same owner to participate in the new lots, and at maximum prices. You continue to allow the same fined companies to continue to use everyone's public money. You have decided to organize a new system that seems more reasonable, to continue perpetuating this benefit to businesses. We believe there are enough elements to go to the prosecution. No longer to the Competition Authority: to go to the Prosecutor's Office. You have the opportunity to go to the Prosecutor's Office, you, to the Anti-Corruption Prosecutor's Office. Otherwise, we'll do it ourselves. There are reasonable elements to go to the Prosecutor's Office, because there has been a necessary connivance here from the department itself. And you will have to decide who it was, whether it was technical or political, but this millionaire fraud could not be carried out for eighteen years without the connivance of the Administration itself. And you will have to delimit to where the responsibilities come from, whether even the political leaders of each of the governments, or you, who have had the opportunity to change the system and perpetuate it so that they are poised themselves...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u52	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u53	Our department has been working with the Basque Authority of Competition and has been given information and all the documents required. We've had four requests of documentation from the authorities, and we've always answered with severity and as fast as we can. And this I say, because we are accused of not giving any information. Our goal is to put an end to a bad practice that doesn't profit anyone. Not for the restaurants, not for the students, not the Administration. And I dare say, not even to companies themselves, because they are now in a difficult situation. Before the amount of money imposed on the penalties, it is to be imagined that these companies will appeal to the courts. Anyway, as I've told you, we are in the presence of a very serious case that influences the administration's interest, and at this moment the legal services of the Basque Mitch are being carefully examined. It's morning for you to know the mood that's still on, but I can assure you that we'll continue to do everything that's in our power to maintain the effective use of public resources and guarantee the security of the nourishment of the students and the quality of the service. In any case, I want to make it clear what the reality of this whole process is, and I want to underline a number of ideas. I fully share the judgment on the seriousness of what has happened, that is, the damage caused to the Administration. The current form of management of the dining rooms hinges on the need to ensure the safety and health of our children. In no case can we talk about the failure of the current school dining system. Ez du porrot egin. This government listens. We are working on a pilot project, together with parents' and mothers' associations, and it is a very complex task that will serve to assess other forms of management. So, we're still working. This Government has changed the recruitment system. The procedure guarantees the principles of freedom of access to tenders, advertising and transparency; greater participation of undertakings and, of course, greater distribution in the award are pursued and achieved. The new procedure has therefore ensured competition and the need for competition between potential tenderers. Now it is necessary to compete with at least two companies in each of the lots to proceed to the award...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u54	Mr. Oyre generous, please, your turn is over.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u55	That is to say, this Government has already acted.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u56	And in Łódź de Ocarari, the same thing.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u57	I don't know if you've started thinking about why you don't show up any more companies. Because no more companies have presented themselves. No more companies have been introduced!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u58	Mr. Oyal, that's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u59	I'm finishing up. We are aware that this is a very complex process in which multiple aspects and interests are intertwined. You mentioned, in relation to the technician, that it is always the same in these eighteen years. That's what you said. I can simply tell you that to the technician to whom you refer, and who has even given his name, it is impossible to blame him for the previous ten years, because he has a contract since 2010. It is therefore impossible to impute it to him since 1997. [[Berber]] You said "the same technician..." "The same technician"!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u60	Mr. Oyre generous, please...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u61	In addition, all the amendments that have been included were already presented to the Education Committee in some way last April. And, as you know, until now it was a laboratory – which you have also mentioned – the one responsible for homologating. However, for the last contract, Aenor was entrusted with the approval of the undertakings. Yes, sir, to Aenor, who carries out a corresponding assessment (we will also question Aenor!), with the participation of an independent auditor of the sector, a person outside the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country (we will also question his work!)). In addition, the conditions for carrying out this assessment have been tightened, and it is necessary to assess the technical management of the companies, to check that they have the necessary tools, to check whether the health and hygiene conditions are adequate, etc., etc. And, if we're also talking about sizes, we'll have to guarantee service. We cannot say that any company can carry this volume of business! Well, we'll have to guarantee that, too, sir. You see, in this process many things have been said. Thus, for example, just a month ago, and referring to the new contract, a trade union centre accused me – and I quote textually – of "the economicist prioritization of the award processes". The same trade union centre this Monday makes me responsible for the ultimate cost of the service. I mean, he accuses me of one thing and the other in less than a month, besides making me responsible for the 2011 school-dining strike. Incomprehensible. Mr Oyarzabal, for his part there are also comments that cannot be made even in the political game. This PNV government has made the necessary changes to prevent such situations from happening again. We have to go back a long way in time, to the second legislature (and we are in the tenth), to meet a PNV Education Advisor. Throughout this time, PSE and Eusko Alkartasuna have been advisers and advisers who have borne these responsibilities. And I'm sure you know that, but I'm just writing it down. This Government does not question the previous work, the legality of such actions, as we are aware of the strict rules to be taken into account in the procurement of services: technical reports, legal advice, etc. As an example, the last agreement of 2011 was appealed both to the contractual appeals body and to the courts. In both cases, the company's claim was dismissed. As regards its claim to cover up the complaints, it must be clear that this Government has always cooperated with the Basque Competition Authority, which I have said earlier, and has been respectful of its requirement regarding the duty to keep secret, as we were transferred to a communication dated 4 November 2014, in which it stated literally that "all those who are involved in the processing of sanctioning files or who are aware of such files because of their profession, office or even intervention as a party must keep secret the facts of which they may have been aware. And if this is not the case, non-compliance with this duty can lead to criminal, civil and administrative liability." Mr Oyarzabal, this is nothing like the corruption cases of the EREs in Andalusia, or the Pujol case, as you have said. But it does not look like the Palma Arena case, the Bárcenas case, the Camps case, the Gürtel case, the Fabra case, the Punica case, or the Acuamed case. Mr Maneiro, you are curious about the analysis this counsellor makes of the situation, because, in your opinion, I am responsible for these competitions, for the whole process, from the basis to the award. I hope that after the intervention it will be clear to you what is the responsibility of each one. I should like to make it clear again: the Basque Competition Authority has decided on possible practices contrary to the free competition of undertakings to the detriment of the general interest. And finally, Mr. Lázarabster, I think that the answer once more has been well answered that your request and our work about the new management models have been made. You have direct information about the pilots of projects that would be handled by parents, you know how difficult they are, and we're still working and we'll continue. And the difficulty is not fun, no, and you're wrong about it. Well, this is where I think we've cleared up everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u62	Thank you, chief physician, Mrs. Uriart. Number of points in theme list: "Interlation of Jule's Arzuga Gumua Gumuzius, members of the Union, made to the President of the Union, concerning the practical refusal of this NATO people." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u63	Good morning, everyone. Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President. Several Western powers were signed in 1949 by the Tratual organization of the North Atlantic (NATO-OTAN) in Washington, at that time, in front of the Varsovia treaty of the Union of the Soviet Union, and generally on the purpose of aiding each other in military defence during the Cold War. He entered the Spanish State in 1982, as the Government of UCD, in haste to compare this entry with the opinion of the people, and so not in 1986 did he organize the refrenchendum in the care of the Spanish government. Even if he had said the opposite, with the famous "OTAN, de entrada no," the government felt that it was then necessary for the national interest that Spain should maintain in NATO. The result of the referendum was made throughout the state: 42% was a yes, 39% no. In four parts of the South Basque Country, there was a great national population, and the majority voted clearly against NATO. The voices on the contrary (828.000) doubled the prods (424.000), that they had a very large share. The citizen's resolution was perfectly clear. The Basque People didn't want them to be part of NATO. This decision was the independent initiative of an independent nation, independent car in form and form. I suppose that resolution which has been taken into place in this country has been deeply rooted. Even so it has been, for years, that decision has made room for us, and even in our age we could not vote at this referendum. In spite of the democratic exercise of decision, and even of the decision, not to mention NATO for the sake of content, or for the sake of the substance, the motion of consciousness, or after that, the instigation of the Spanish Empire, caused a wave of resignation. You yourself, Mr. President, in another question, took your head for an objector; many of us would have been insupulous later, but I think, with equal pride. From this decision he drank the antimilitary movement, the movements of war, and the movements of the union between the peoples. To make this decision, and perhaps the other side of the coin, to neglect what has been decided, to reject or despise this democratic choice, the opinion opposed to NATO's disposition, and, in general, to spread out the whole of the Basque Country an opinion contrary to the margins. What was decided then, I suppose, is perfectly today. We haven't forgotten, even if we don't admit what we've decided, I think it's all about today, and we don't want to forget that either. Almost thirty years after that unanimous verdict of Basque citizenship against NATO, I would say that that decision advanced in time. We can now see that not even those three conditions linked to the entry of the Kingdom of Spain into NATO today can be said to have been fulfilled. The first condition spoke of ensuring that the Spanish State would not be incorporated into the integrated military structure, and today we know that it is incorporated, has a permanent representation in NATO, on its website it is proud to participate in the commitment of financial contribution, being the seventh contributor, the provision of means and capabilities, the participation in operations of the Alliance... Indeed, Spain is submissive in carrying out this mission in war operations of aggression perpetrated today by NATO. According to the second condition, it would be prohibited to install, store or introduce nuclear weapons into Spanish territory, and, according to all indications, this too has been breached, transporting and storing nuclear weapons in ports and military bases of the State, although this extreme, due to the situation of opacity, is still almost impossible to verify. The third of the conditions spoke of producing a progressive reduction in the military presence of the United States in the Spanish State, and this has not been fulfilled either. On the contrary, the base of Moron has been expanded, a missile shield system has been imposed on Rota, and other new bases have been opened. Now NATO is looking for new enemies, new ground to intervene in, whether in the war against this widespread international terrorism, or in an arms escalation with Russia or China, i.e. in the plundering of economic resources or raw materials, whether in Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Somalia, Palestine or Syria, leading us to a new war scenario that we can already consider is the whole world. I do not know whether the cold war has been re-edited or whether we are already in full swing in a new delocalized world war, but we believe that the problem is NATO. This interventionist NATO that violates international law with its interference in third states. This NATO violating the most basic international humanitarian legislation. This bellicose, militaristic, imperialist NATO, which prevents Europe or its peoples from working towards those principles of the Charter of the United Nations, in particular the principle of fostering friendly relations among nations based on respect, the principle of equal rights and the principle of self-determination of peoples, and taking appropriate measures to strengthen universal peace. That NATO that, instead of defending, attacks. That NATO that, instead of avoiding new wars, provokes them. And we, this small people who repudiated it, are chained and chained to their designs or whims, to decisions in which we cannot participate. Even in the Basque Country, we've seen that OTAN's operation scene has come. Arms of all kinds have been used in the natural camp in military exercises. It has also brought us accidents, damages, and all sorts of negative effects. We only met just now when we brought the "Trident Juntecture 2015" in the port of the Sacred Council, where hundreds of soldiers and vehicles had fallen, and with all vanity passed through our territory. It wasn't a public order problem, it wasn't a traffic problem, but I think that for us who actually appreciate it, the result of this referendum that took 30 years ago was highly offensive to all of NATO's armored lines. I guess this was supposed to be an outrage against a lot of people. The result of this referendum, for those of the majority, or, as I say, of which we could not vote, was, as I say, a gravity. And I want to ask you, Mr. President, whether you share such a feeling as that for you, a feeling of gravity. The faculty of resolving, and of executing what has been determined, namely, the most obvious proof of the independence of nations and citizens, the foundation and essence of democracy, which is the most prominent sign of the right to decide. We had no reason to be a part of a military compact like that, and now I think we don't have it. Before this we confirm that we ought to take the decisions that are important to us in a democratic manner, and that all political and institutions ought to respect them. All this is our question: What can you do about the free choice given by the citizens against NATO, to put it in value and force as far as they can? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, to begin with, I must admit that the interposing you introduced is not easy to answer, I must admit it, but I shall try to do it anyway. As you mention in your interaction, 30 years have passed and the current situation is quite different. Euskadi is different, and above all international relations have changed from top to bottom. In your question you mention the testament of Warsaw, and there is nothing to see but this total change in the actual reality of the wall of Berlin. In fact, it is only to read the list of states which have been made to be members of NATO during the last few years: Bulgaria, Romania, Poland, Czech Republic, Albania or Hungary. That's what we have to do to assess the change that's been in 30 years. Not only this, but I dare say that NATO organisation itself has been adapted to this new reality, its business, and above all its protagonism, differ in comparison with those which were now 30 years ago. To conclude this entry, I would say that NATO is not in the first line of public opinion. It is possible, on the 12th of March, that the 30th anniversary of the referendum is to create memory information about this subject, but I don't think it will reach public discussion. I recognize, Mr Arzuaga, that I feel deep respect for every occasion when Basque society expresses its will democratically, and thirty years ago, in the referendum on the Spanish State's stay in NATO, it did so. You ask me about what the Basque Government is willing to do today to enforce in practice what Basque society voted for thirty years ago in that referendum of state constituency (and I would like to remind you, state constituency) for the stay or departure from Spain of an organization such as NATO, in which the Basque Government has never had or had any kind of presence or participation. I have to say, therefore, that from this practical point of view, by which you demand it is appropriate to remember this obviousness. This question is completely outside the scope of my powers as a lehendakari and the competence of the Basque Government. It is important to start from this consideration in order not to incur a discursive and dialectic demagogic game that all supports it. I would add that these three decades have represented a radical change in this matter not only in Euskadi, but also in international order and relations. It's been 30 years. Nor is today's Basque society thirty years ago, nor is the world today the same as that of 1986, and the most important thing perhaps is that even NATO is not the same organization today as it was three decades ago, especially after the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989. You raise this question – let me take this into consideration – by going ahead with the thirtieth anniversary of the referendum, but I also believe that by going ahead with a debate that has not been raised in any field. In any case, it is legitimate and it seems to me absolutely strict that I answer you, even though it is not within my competence, the demand that you make. It has not, of course, been raised in the political framework, nor in the institutional framework, and I dare say that this is not, at least so far, part of the social debate. In recent years, the question of whether or not NATO exists, whether or not it belongs to NATO has not been raised. Of course, in Euskadi we have not met this debate – or at least I have not met it – and neither in our environment. Moreover, when this debate has taken place, it has actually been associated with the opportunity and form of NATO military intervention in certain international conflicts. I am referring, for example, to the case of the former Yugoslavia in 1999, in Libya in 2011, or more recently in Ukraine or in the case of Syria. So, it's a new situation, and that spirit in the past three decades is about to be upgraded. I would show the effort to promote values from the government in answer to your question: On the one hand, by encouraging an education and culture for peace, on the other hand, by pushing the values of solidarity and cooperation into the Eucade and the world. I don't know about the NATO organization, but with other international institutions. Europe is a strong network of relationships, and she participates in Basques, and she wants to be an executive. On the other hand, we have a wide network of communication in the wide world, which is a remarkable example of the Basque House, from which it is possible to attempt to extend them. Considering this international point of view, Donostia is the capital city of Europe this year, and the purpose of our project is to promote and spread our lives together. So these are the values that we want to stress on in the Eukadin itself and in our external relationships on the global stage we now live in. The scene has changed, and we live in a new world that is more open and global. These new circumstances compel us to ask ourselves what the present meaning of that expression of the will of Basque society formulated in 1986 is. It is up to us to make a non-arbitrary interpretation of its meaning, and the question is how to interpret today that expression of popular will thirty years ago, in accordance with the social and international reality of the present moment. From my point of view, that fact has a fundamental significance today: Basque society has been identified and continues to be identified with non-war solutions, diplomatic channels and dialogue. We have clearly positioned ourselves against war, terrorism and violence, as could be seen during the invasion of Iraq or in the recent attacks in Paris, Mali or Afghanistan. We are committed to Europe, and to a common European defence and security policy. We will continue to use the forums in which we have the capacity to influence to defend international coexistence based on the values of respect for the legality of international human rights law and multilateral dialogue. It's been 30 years since the referendum, and therefore the question is how to interpret and manage this expression which has arisen today from the will of the people, interpret and govern, as well as our own hands and practical jurisdictions; interpret, combined with the social reality of our present state. In my opinion, today this event has a fundamental significance: the euscal society united in the midst of national intercourse, and continues to unite with neither the Belgians nor the diplomatic roads nor the means of dialogue. The same attitude was seen at the time of the invasion of Iraq, although it was not made through the popular contact. That's how we proclaim it in a practical way in the traditions of solidarity which we have called against the bombings of France, Malic, Afghanistan. We will continue to defend what we have defended in these public events, against all violence and war, spreading out the values and culture of dialogue, solidarity and cooperation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u66	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u67	Thanks for the explanations and even for the tune, because I wanted him to discuss an exercise and to know a little bit about what was going on around the result of this refendum 30 years ago, and also about the content of the refrendum, that is to say, about the existence of the OTANs and the incident of being chained up. I suppose, well, I, at least, that this discussion has never been given since I was here in the Parliament, and therefore that we thought it interesting to know what the opinion of the Government was, in the same claves of refefendum: On the other hand, the opposition or abscesssion, considering that the head of the Government was Ardanza, and that the position was favourable. And that's why I wanted to know today, after 30 years, what was the view of that Eucommenk. You talk to me about memory, but I don't want to take it like a 30-year-old story, but I think it's a day story. Two sides: First, because the right of deciding is an affair of today, because I think of something important to decide. And, well, we shall also treat the law of possibility here, about the right of questioning. Although it is true that some of the directors of the Hands of Spain today have also come from the head-in-law of the House of Representatives of Spain. But, as I say, from a point of view of the right to decide, and, on the other hand, what is to be decided. He talks to me about a radical change in NATO itself, too, and there is certainly a change in NATO, and I think it's getting worse and worse. It is increasingly opening up its spaces for intervention; it increasingly takes international legislation, international humanitarian legislation as a damper role; there are increasingly interventions by NATO, NATO interference for more lax reasons. Interventions that, I say again, bind us as a people. They are decisions in which we do not participate but which directly affect us. We are subject to those decisions, we are subject to NATO's own actions, in a way as mere... I don't know if to say no-protagonists, but at least guests. He tells me that we are ahead of the debate and that there is no social debate. I do believe that there is a social debate, precisely for each of NATO's interventions, because they have an impact on our society. And precisely that social impact was what we thought we had to bring to this Parliament as well. You tell me about the constituency in which that decision was made. It is true, it is the Spanish constituency, but I believe that there was an act of sovereignty in this country, which was to make a decision in a very concrete sense, which I believe marks the way for the steps that we must take in the future as well. Surely, at that time, when the vote was made, the negative was a vote for neutrality, but today I think it's not neutral to say no to OTAN, it's not neutral. This negative is, as a matter of fact, a negative against war, a negative against attack, a negative against imperialism, a negative against the economic or natural resources of others, a negative for the survival of life, a negative for the international legislation, a negative for human rights, a negative for the principles of the letter of the United Nations, and a negative for the dignity of the United Nations. And that's what the EH Collector wants to confirm here, in this interpelation, in Parliament, even here, in order to mark some progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Arzuga, with memory and reality, I think reality has changed from the root: The countries which I have mentioned to you in the treaty of Warsaw take part now, why it would be the reality of OTAN-I believe that it is clear that reality may be quite different. In a certain sense, you do it with the right to be united. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you, that the refrendum, which had been 30 years ago, was a consulate, and therefore we ought to leave the matter at its own disposal. You're asking me what RedMork's gonna do in practice, and I'll tell you frankly, if you don't give a damn, join our rights and our responsibilities. I've answered the new international order and the social reality that we live in. The point of view of the values I have spoken to you is that of some of those which I have spoken of by you, it is essential to our people, and I can assure you that it is essential to me too. Looking into the house, considering the fun of you and our society, we'll continue to work hard for a cultured change. In the values of humanity, in the respect due to the person, in human rights, based on equality, on justice and peace, we will either promote or promote a well-bred and conscious society. That's what you're talking about in every activity zone. It has a special influence on education, culture, youth, co-workers, peace and society, equality and society police. Every time we have a relationship with the Basque Society, we move war and international terrorism for the victims and the victims. Looking into the house, we're working to ensure a plot of peace and companionship after a few decades of terrorism and violence. With all this, I think we're still on the line of our decision that we've made 30 years ago. I therefore believe, Mr Arzuaga, that I have responded to you clearly, without demagoguery, considering the new international order to which I also referred in my first speech, even with countries that previously belonged to the Warsaw Pact, and adjusting to the scope of our competence and responsibility, even in the reference to what might have been a result of a referendum, but bearing in mind that it was a consultative referendum, not an effective referendum of which any person responsible for an affected constituency could have some kind of action to take. I stand for a value-based position for our country. The Basque Government will continue to work with society, promoting education in values, respect and humanism, justice and equality, a cultural change that fosters coexistence. I do not see in that sense any difference in what you also manifested as EH Bildu's commitment. Moreover, through our external action, and very conscious of the modesty of our presence and representation, we support policies of international coexistence based on international humanitarian law and human rights. We also invest in solidarity and development cooperation. I hope this can also be shared with EH Bildu. And in situations of international conflict, we reject unilateralism, we defend multilateralism, and we ally ourselves with alternatives within the framework of international legality that count on the respect of the United Nations. And this is the fundamental thing in our approach. The pacifist vocation expressed clearly and repeatedly by Basque society leads us to express a firm commitment to a policy of practical and solidarity also with refugees. We are critical of European policy in this regard, and we are firmly committed to a policy of asylum and solidarity. On March 12, 2016, when the 30th anniversary of that referendum is celebrated, we have a good opportunity to reflect, to help update the values of justice and peaceful coexistence within and across the world, which is at the heart of the will of Basque society expressed that day and repeated since then. We will continue to use our voice and power to operate on all of the fortitudes we have to use based on the values of international partnership, respect and dialog. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. President. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interpologising, Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea by the law of the Basque Groups for the president, the pension system." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u71	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, the question we are asking you has nothing to do with NATO or the school dining rooms. It is a subject that is now topical for a number of reasons. Perhaps the last was the approval, whether doctrinal or not, as Mr Erkoreka said, of the Basque pension system approved by the Basque Nationalist Party, but, in any case, it is another issue that this Government (its Government) is raising as a negotiation with the Socialist Party, such as the transfer of social security, formerly called passive policies. Now we've all called it a transfer from Social Security, and then passive politics. I would like to see in this case, Mr Lehendakari, your Government stop making a bit of the hurtful talk of victimism, of calimero always, of "We have been thirty-five years without receiving this transfer!", because I have to remember that we were thirty years without receiving that of active employment policies, and we received it ten years after the last autonomous community that had already received it. And we received it after changing the Basque Government, as one of the points we agreed with the Socialist Party, from the first in that agreement, that at once active employment policies had to come. And I remember that when Mr López's government started negotiating them you, who were not in the government, tangled in the back. They tangled around the back, because how that negotiation was going to take place... and there was more to include. And this I bring to the thread after the great management of some. And they were committed to putting in the contract bonuses, and we told them that that was going to cost us more than 50 million euros a year. But, as Mr. Zapatero was as he was, he accepted it, and besides, as he did the numbers, he said, "Well, I'm going to save money." And that brilliant performance of your party in that transfer today has cost us over 200 million euros. So, just like that, and in this time of fat cows like we're having. Then, when there are transfers that take time to arrive, then you have to ask yourself whether it is one or two things, or there is someone who always strives not to arrive. And I in this case of employment policies..., with the active ones that happened, and with the passive ones I have to come to the same conclusion: that we have to leave... , for the PNV or the Basque Government it seems that it is necessary to leave it unfulfilled in order to be able to say that it is not in compliance with the Statute. And I am going to refer – because I have read it – to the report that the Government sent us a few months ago to the self-government presentation, a report entitled "On the feasibility of a system of social security", which has that title and which tells us that, "in short, the Statute of Gernika itself establishes two conceptual limitations, expressly recognizing in its fifth transitional provision the unitary character of the economic regime, as well as respect for the principle of solidarity". And it continues to tell us that, "as is well known, the reading that is made in relation to the assumption of competences by the autonomous communities is intimately conditioned by the criteria that constitutional jurisprudence makes of the law applicable to the particular subject subject subject to appeal". That's what that report says. It also tells us that "none of these issues" – when listing what social security would be, functions – "can be in their regulatory regulations that are susceptible to transfer." And that even management itself (management alone) raises delimitation problems. This is what your report referred to the self-government paper says. And in fact, he tells us about rulings of the Constitutional Court that take and define it. And he speaks to us expressly of the 124/89 and the 195/96. What this report does not say about these judgments is that they were at the instance of the first, of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which came to the Constitutional Court for interpretation and delimitation, and the second, at the instance of the Basque Government, which was considered in part by the Constitutional Court. Therefore (we are talking about sentences of the year 96 and 89, and remedies raised), forget about the People's Party, which we were not in the government or... In the government in Spain was the Socialist Party, and here you were ruling with the Socialist Party. And, therefore, we have set by the Constitutional Court and defined what matters may be the subject of this transfer of powers from Social Security. Now, of course, if the Basque Nationalist Party or the Basque Government, from the Basque Government or from outside the Basque Government, what they propose are transfers other than those already fixed and delimited by the Constitutional Court, then we are talking about something else. We are no longer talking about the development of the Statute, we are talking about something else. And obviously no constitutional government in Spain will be able to accept, agree something that is unconstitutional. And I, as I always hear you, often say here that you respect the law, so I hope and wish that the law will also be respected when negotiating this transfer. The law is respected, and not what we each invent. Then that report of your Government has something in which we obviously cannot agree, when it sees Social Security as a sort of..., that the end is interterritorial solidarity. Because here we are not talking about either Cupo or Economic Concert or that there must be solidarity between territories. No, no, Solidarity is in-ter-ge-ne-ra-cio-nal, it is of the people who have contributed and who pay the pensions of others. What do I want to say, that doesn't say that report? Look, that report doesn't say, as Eustat doesn't say, but you have the data... Yes, it says one thing: predictable data for Spain is bad. Those in this community are worse. And if you look at the predictions of the four-year Eustat – you don't have to be any magician either, because the generation of the 60s is going to be over sixty years in four years – of course, it says: "In four years those between twenty-five and sixty years are going to be less than those we are today, and they are going to be many more than those of sixty." But you know this, because we raised it at the beginning of this parliamentary term, that we have a specific problem. What doesn't that report say? That report does not say that the Basque community has been in deficit for ten years in the pension system. And what doesn't it say? That we were already deficient with full employment. With full employment! What's he saying? That the Spanish system for five years is beginning to be deficit (this has happened because of the economic crisis and unemployment), but that is that we are deficit since before. Only this past year, we are going to be in deficit by more than 2.4 billion euros, not counting the pensioners we export, not counting operating expenses, not counting temporary disabilities, which, according to another report by Professor Octavio, could be valued at more than 500 million euros a year. And, of course, this is the trend that we have in the last ten years, having full employment and the economic crisis: each year increase our own deficit by more than 300 million. We started at 80 million in 2006, and we are now at 2,400, with data from the Eustat, eh!, until 2012, because then they have stopped publishing them. And this is trend. And what is the Basque Government's proposal? Hey, let's see how we improve this system. Is "We need to create more jobs, we need to increase the base of contributors to guarantee our pensions"? We have not heard that from the Basque Nationalist Party at its meeting in Iruña, nor have we heard from this Basque Government. What have we heard you say? "You'll have to supplement it with taxes." And here I do have to ask you a question, because this debate in Spain is also raised, and here it does play..., here if it plays the Economic Concert. Because we remember...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u72	Thank you, Mr. Damborene... Thank you. Time's up. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Damborenea, you should have a lot of work to do to rescue recordings of what we have said as the Basque Nationalist Party in relation to all the measures necessary to promote the revival of the economy, and also to know to what extent we can work to improve what may be passive employment policies. Mr Egibar told you yesterday, in the debate held yesterday. Look, we are not willing to receive damaged goods, and if we need to improve the transfers for which we are responsible, we will improve them. In any case, he says in his question that you are very concerned about the pensions that Basques are currently paying. Well, the Basque Government too, and a lot. And I'll explain why. The pension reserve fund had €66.815 million in 2011; by the end of 2015 only €32.485 million remained. In just four years, the Spanish Government of the People's Party has reduced the so-called pension hut to less than half. In view of what has happened in recent exercises, it can be predicted that this fund can be exhausted in 2018. In other words, in three more years, the state will end the pension fund. It's to be concerned. Therefore, I suggest that we do not demagogue about this issue, which is a matter of concern; it is of concern to you and I am concerned about me. It does not add to the fear of the Basque pensioners, because this threat can be turned against them. You know why? Because Basque citizenship has internalized that its pensions will be safer and more secure if managed by the Basque Government. Citizenship has it internalized, because this is what has happened to health, education, social protection... Management from the Basque Government has ensured a universal public system of higher quality and better results. Everything we have managed in our own institutions, from the very closeness, has been better managed and has served the benefit of Basque citizens. This, as a starting point, is an undeniable fact. Second point. You say in your question that the establishment of the pension system itself is not covered by the Gernika Statute. Look, the title of the report is not the one that the Basque Government has put in, but rather responds to the title that the complainant put in this report to the Basque Government, with references to the single box and the principle of solidarity. I am not going to discuss with you what is expressly contained in the Statute of Gernika itself, an organic law adopted in a referendum and not complied with for thirty-six years, yes. I refer to the written letter, and I read Article 18.2 of the Statute, which states: "In the field of social security, it shall be the responsibility of the Basque Country: (a) the legislative development and implementation of the basic legislation of the State, except for the rules which form the economic system of the State; (b) the management of the economic system of social security". The fifth transitional provision of the Staff Regulations reads: "The Joint Transfer Commission set up for the implementation of the Staff Regulations shall draw up appropriate agreements whereby the Autonomous Community shall take over the management of the economic system of social security, within its unitary character and respect for the principle of solidarity", this is stated in the fifth transitional provision of the Staff Regulations, "in accordance with the procedures, deadlines and commitments contained in such agreements for orderly management". And that is what we want to negotiate not only with the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, but also with the People's Party. From the literal reading of the previous texts, without interpretation, it is therefore clear: first, the Basque Country is responsible for the management of the economic system of social security, and, secondly, for the implementation of such management, the appropriate agreements will be established in the Joint Committee on Transfers, within their unitary character and respect for the principle of solidarity. This is the question, how to comply with the statutory foresight, and how to do so from dialogue and not from demagoguery. I would like to recall that the outstanding transfer reports have been approved by this Parliament since 1993 and 1995, and in both cases there is a demand for compliance with the transfer of the economic system of social security to Euskadi. Let's not raise red lines where there are no red lines. There are methods and procedures, Mr Damborenea, for Euskadi to manage the economic system of social security, as laid down in the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. The system of economic concertation is the appropriate one to articulate the transfer of this pending matter, as it has demonstrated to manage the other transfers. It is the right system to comply with the Statute, which means compliance with the law. You ask me about my position on the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party. Well, in any case, Mr Damborenea, I say to you that we are talking about a uniform system of protection (a uniform system of protection), with profiles of the public, sufficient and irregressive, converging from a social security system consisting of a public system and a complementary system of employment, voluntary, free, to a uniform system of social protection, not from theoretical positions, but from the practicality of an agreement to transfer from the economic system of social security. And this is what the Basque Nationalist Party says. Look, as lehendakari I refer you back to the written letter. The position of the Basque Government on this issue has recently been sent, as you mentioned, to this House along with the rest of the reports requested by the self-government presentation. This is a transfer that has been consistently demanded by the Basque Government and has been systematically denied by the Spanish Government over the thirty-six years since the adoption of the Statute of Gernika. The Basque Government is calling for this transfer to take place because it will make it possible for our community to implement a comprehensive and comprehensive social policy. And I end up going back to the beginning. I think we can agree that the current model of social security in Spain is severely conditioned by a number of factors that have a decisive impact on what is future sustainability itself. And these factors are factors that also affect us in Euskadi, factors that affect the whole of the Spanish State: the increase in the dependency rate, determined by the increase in life expectancy, and the decrease in birth rate, high unemployment rates and job insecurity, uncertainty and economic instability. These factors cause a significant alteration in the contributor-perceived benefit ratio, a ratio of vital importance for the correct and adjusted functioning of the current distribution system which serves as the basis for the social security model. The transfer of the current social security system to Euskadi would be affected by these same factors, yes. There is no doubt that it would be necessary, also in Euskadi (and I also say, because it is necessary in the whole Spanish State, anyway), also in Euskadi, to take measures, as I insist, in the State, to ensure the viability and sustainability of the system. We are prepared to put it forward, analyse it and agree on it. However, we are not prepared to admit that doubts about the future management model are being used as an excuse to further delay the transfer to Euskadi. Please comply with the law, if you also have responsibility in the next Spanish Government, that we do not know what is going to happen. You asked me 15 days ago about Podemos, and I said, "What a commitment to Podemos!". It seems that today the negotiation does not go for Podemos, but it goes for another political party. I do not know what is going to happen to the Government of Spain and I do not know what is going to be the responsibility you have, but in any case, that the law will be enforced, and then we will agree on your model of implementation. The implementation of this transfer shall specify the signing of an agreement, in accordance with the fifth transitional provision of the Statute, determining the financial flows, the solidarity fund and the budgetary aspects. It should also cover the economic aspects of benefits, cooperation between the two administrations, and the attribution of the responsibilities of each of them. We are talking about a convention, contained in the fifth transitional provision of the Gernika Statute of Autonomy. What I can assure you, and you know, is that the performance by the Basque Autonomous Community of the functions assigned to it by the Statute would be beneficial to the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u74	Thank you, President. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u75	Look, Mr. lehendakari, the term broken goods, which I have been hearing for some time in this matter to you, I also understand that you explain it by saying, "We don't want what really belongs to us." And that's what you call broken goods. That is, "We do not want what comes in the Statute and is bounded by the Constitutional Court" – as you, the Basque Government, asked twenty years ago – "and if that comes that is broken goods and we do not want it". Man, what I hope is that there will be no change of government to put another government that is able to negotiate what is provided for in the Statute and the Constitution, and delimited by the Constitutional Court at its request. You tell me about the reserve fund, you tell me that you have to apply the Economic Concert... But let's see, it's like we have to apply! But has the Basque Government contributed any euro to pensions, or have citizens contributed it with our contributions? We've brought it! I know that... Hey, it says, "In five years he's down..." Yeah, sure, that's what it was created for. Do you know what you forget to say? That in ten years the Basques have contributed nothing to that fund, which has been declining for five years, but that we have received more than 10 billion from the rest of the Spaniards. We haven't contributed a euro to that fund in ten years. And I know you're in the amount you've told me, and now I make you the rule of 6.24, and I get out... Because they also say, "And we also have part of that fund, and with that we have arranged it." The 6,24 is 2 billion euros. With 2 billion euros you do not pay nor the deficit of 2005. From the year 2005. And when we are talking about that deficit, which I say 2,500 but I can add another 500 if you like, we are talking about 25% of the budget of the Basque Government today. And when you tell me, "Of course, there's private funds now." Of course, of course there are, and they have the one who wants them, and they have the one who doesn't want them, with that system that they seem to be posing as fantastic. And now the doubt is (there is already, the one who wants it and the one who doesn't want it, doesn't have it) what is being raised, that it is mandatory then also the other, to square the numbers? For that it is very easy: the social security contributions of those who are contributing are doubled. But my question wasn't going that way. My question was... You seem to be willing to, when you don't arrive from a place, be financed by taxes, and here I tell you that you do play the Economic Concert. Because we collect our taxes, and if we collect our taxes and in the end an agreement is reached in the Toledo Pact, an agreement is reached in Madrid, so that, if the pension system is deficient, as you propose to do here, that is corrected by pulling taxes, we, who collect our taxes, will have to pay with our taxes part of that deficit. And when I asked you how you are going to finance all these proposals that you make, because that was my question, I didn't hear this from you here. That's why I asked him about the taxes. You tell me "How do you comply with the transitional provision of the Statute?". Well, that's easy! Applying what the Constitutional Court said. But you don't want to. Sure! But you don't want to. So listen, if you do not want to comply with the transitional provision of the Statute, as you said, on the initiative of the government of the Basque Nationalist Party at the time, which is so, of course, we are no longer in that "they do not want to". No, no, It's just that you don't want to. It's just that you don't want to. That is why I have told you, man, that I hope that it will not happen to us as with active policies, that the government must be changed in order to receive them, even if then you will, in the end, harm us with your negotiation. Yes, yes; more than 200 million euros has cost us the joke this of contract bonuses. And the concert system in this case doesn't work. We're not talking about territories, we're talking about people. It doesn't work, and you know it perfectly, like me. And when you tell me the forecasts and the negative factors that Social Security has in Spain, yes, of course it has negatives, of population, of perspective, yes, but it is that ours are worse, of population... Look, you say, "We manage very well, there they manage very badly." It will already apply. Of course, his president, Mr. Ortuzar (an election campaign), said "We manage better...".
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Your time is over. Your time is up! Your time is up! It's over... ! Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mr Damborenea, I am sure that the transfer of the economic system from Social Security would make it possible to design a comprehensive system of social protection which, responding to the current needs of people, faces the future with guarantees of social and economic viability. And I am drawn to the attention not the question you ask me, with what funds, depending on what the proposal of the Basque Nationalist Party might be, which I have already explained to you, starting from what is the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security, from practicality, but I am drawn to the argument that the Spanish Government is making to breach the Statute. To breach the Statute. The Spanish Government often says "We do not transfer Social Security for the good of the Basque Country itself, because it is a deficit transfer and therefore harmful to Euskadi". And, if that were the case, the transfer of the economic regime from Social Security to Euskadi would be beneficial to the State. So, where's the problem? What do you mean we haven't contributed in ten years? What do you mean the Basques and Basques haven't contributed? We have made the same contribution as any citizen of the Spanish State. Just like any citizen of the Spanish state! I ask you to address this issue rigorously, calmly, but seriously to begin by assuming the need to comply with the Gernika Statute. You again conceptually appeal to the principles of unity, solidarity, etc. in your interventions. You are again spreading the language of fear and the deficit of the Basque pension system. It appeals to the principle of unity of money, which is not covered by the Magna Charter, is not covered by the Magna Charter and is – between quotes – "a simple accounting and instrumental principle" (closure quotes), according to the judgement of the Constitutional Court 88/2014, judgement of the Constitutional Court to which you allude. Look, this is a matter of political will. There is a recent precedent, and I know it well: an initiative of the People's Party in May 2010 before this Parliament sought to defend the cash unit in connection with the transfer of active employment policies; that initiative was rejected by this Parliament, the active policies were transferred to Euskadi, and the service, even when we are in an effort to improve, is working. The Statute was complied with, and the service to citizenship will be improved. And this is exactly what we are proposing in relation to the management of the economic system of social security. I would remind you that in this same legislature this House has adopted two non-law proposals and one motion calling for this transfer under the conditions laid down in the Statute of Gernika. This Parliament has approved it. Pay attention to the legality that you so claim to defend, do not use the threat or fear, Mr Damborenea, nor a supposed breach of the principle of solidarity, to refuse to comply with the Statute. To say that the management of social security and pensions are unsustainable in Euskadi means assuming that in Spain they are unsustainable to a greater extent. Euskadi has no more problems of viability than Spain, it has less, because a system is more viable the more people contribute, as I said to Mr Maneiro, and I remember: in Euskadi they contribute 64 out of every 100, and in Spain 57. And I tell you more, since you have referred to the contribution that has been made to pensions: in Euskadi an additional effort is made in the area of pensions; more than 20,000 people receive from the Basque Government a supplement to their widow's pension, and this supplement is paid here and is supported by the Basque budgets, and shows with facts our purpose to guarantee decent and future pensions. Mr Damborenea, I repeat that it is appropriate to articulate the mechanisms of dialogue and the conventions. I refer to the convention as a formula set out in the fifth transitional provision of the Statute of Autonomy, agreements provided for in the Joint Commission on Transfers, in order to achieve, after thirty-six years of non-compliance, a legal, parliamentary, legal, political and a majority social demand. If the Basque Government manages pensions, they will be more secure and secure. We manage health, education, social protection, and they are guaranteed, and if we manage Social Security pensions will be guaranteed. This is our challenge, and it should be a shared political commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interrogation, made by the members of the Basque Manterola Society to the President, the protocol of helping workers in a difficult situation." Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u79	Good morning, Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. This Parliament has been able to respond to the social concern for the future of ArcelorMittal's plant in Sestao. It must be acknowledged that both this House and the Basque Government, the Bizkaia Parliament and the Sestao City Council, and the political parties together with the trade unions, we have understood that ArcelorMittal's announcement, ArcelorMittal's announcement of indefinite stoppage, was more than the problem of a company, more than the job uncertainty of a large group of workers; that we are talking about the future of a deep-rooted sector in our community and the future in this case of a region, that of the Left Margen, already punished by unemployment. So the reason for this inquiry, as we point out in its content, is not so much to ask for explanations about what the Basque Government has done. We do not expect today from the Government to re-explain to us the journeys made, the meetings to be interested in this issue. Moreover, we can agree in many cases; we can converge on the demand for anti-dumping measures against China or on intervention in the energy price to ensure the viability of the sector, not in Euskadi, but throughout Europe. What we want to ask for explanations is about the protection and support to the workers concerned, both in Arcelor and in any other company rooted in Euskadi, because – we have to say this – it is something we have missed in these actions. We do not deny that there have been meetings with trade union representatives; what we deny is that the proceedings have been coordinated with those workers' representatives. In the institutional declaration that was unanimously and undisputedly adopted by this House at the beginning of the month, there was one element that was at least as important as all the others. He said: "The Basque Parliament highlights the effort made since 2009 by the company and all the workers, which has facilitated, through dialogue and agreement, various flexibility measures that have made it possible to overcome all the problems that have arisen during those years". But it also said: "The Basque Parliament considers it essential that the consolidation of industrial projects in Basquedi, and especially in disadvantaged areas, be achieved with the involvement of social and institutional actors, and therefore requests the Basque Government to coordinate with these actors in all the actions it takes to defend the maintenance of the activity at the ArcelorMittal plant in Sestao, or any other company in Basquedi". And let us bring this matter to this plenary because it was my group that proposed this statement, and because it was the Socialists who wanted the text not to be a mere show of solidarity and concern. We wanted it to be seen that with these workers, who have accepted different flexibility measures to carry out the project, despite the difficulties that have been experienced since the beginning of the crisis, ways were proposed to manage, from a social point of view, the situation of the stop while it lasted, and at the same time to transfer to as many instances a plan for the future as is necessary. In fact, this contribution to the declaration was made by the same representatives of the workers, with whom the secretary general of my party, Idoia Mendia, kept in touch from the minute one of this last and irresolute crisis in Arcelor-Sestao. They have been meetings with the trade unions, with the works committee at the Sestao plant itself, with the management, and this Wednesday with various European authorities, accompanied in all cases by these trade union representatives. In Vitoria, in Sestao, in Madrid or in Brussels, where you can, where someone has the keys to open doors to solutions. And it is these representatives who have moved us that for the time being, as long as the stop lasts, there is a minimum of activity possible, maintenance tasks in the plant, but also that training plans can be activated for workers affected by the ERE, plans that have much to do with the competences of this government. And to include those who may be included in the file, and not to forget their situation, since, if they do not take urgent measures, they will find that, instead of being fixed-rate, in application of the relay contracts, they are workers with their contracts extinguished. Consideration should also be given to how workers in the auxiliary and subcontracting industries will be affected. All this has a lot to do with the Basque Government, with what it can do. It is good to organize a crisis table in the sector; it is good to go to Brussels to express concern about the unfair competition that it said before, of Chinese steel; it is very good to reproach with all the harshness that the attitude of absolute laxity of the Spanish Government in office, before a question that leaves in the air the future of thousands of workers in the Basque Country and throughout Spain. That's where we can match up. But it would have been better if, at the same time, the Government had started working in a coordinated way with workers' representatives, which is what we have done. We believe that this has a lot to do with the difficulties they have with the social partners. It was difficult for them to set up a social dialogue table in half of the legislature, and in the past year a series of agreements adopted and a lot of laziness from the Government to carry them forward. We have reproached him on several occasions, but we understand that it is because of a difficulty on the part of his Government with that dialogue. But it is also an extreme difficulty in meeting the mandates of this House, because in November 2014, in the monograph on unemployment and poverty, we agreed: "The Parliament urges the Government to implement a special protocol to channel the situation of companies experiencing difficulties. In this regard, among other things, the Government will make all its means available (legal advice, strategic planning, aid lines...), available to workers and/or the works council, and, together with them, will undertake to analyse the situation and possible solutions and outputs. In addition, this Protocol shall include a guarantee that the representation of workers will be provided with detailed information on the situation of the undertaking and the possibility of drawing up viability plans and their aid lines." There have been a few companies in difficulty, but let's continue with the example of ArcelorMittal, or right now, unfortunately, with what is coming in Reunited Tubes. Where is the protocol?, where is the legal advice and strategic planning available to workers? How is all the information required by trade union representatives guaranteed? It is no longer the case of Arcelor, where we have seen that once again the Government's action has been to take note of what is known and to show great concern; it is that, unless we are told something else today that we do not know, some government agreement that we have lost, some press conference that we have lost not the socialists, but the unions themselves and the works committees, there is no protocol. It has not fulfilled this mandate either, and it does not seem a small thing to us. As we have told you, workers have proposals in addition to protests; workers raise questions that do not depend on China, Brussels or Madrid, they depend on Lakua (training, inclusion of eventuals in EREs, approaches to maintaining a minimum of activity while the file is in force). If there was a protocol, one month after the announcement of the stop we would know something, but since there is no protocol, we ask you what your Government intends to do to fulfil the parliamentary mandate of articulating a protocol to advise workers of companies in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u80	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u81	The President, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. Good morning, Mr. Azkue. It is necessary, therefore, that the companies which are in difficulty should be able to make an answer and attention to the workers, to reach this matter on both sides; On the one hand, to restore and encourage corporations, and on the other, as you said, to help workers. We think that the best help that can always be given to the workman is this: To run out of business and interact with each other. That way, we'll definitely be able to keep jobs. In this sense, I would like to extend the information of the program developed by the Economics Department of Economics and Economics to begin with, Mr. Azkue. The help in this program is regulated by the Decret of 2014. The origin of this program is a necessity that many companies have been compelled to do a great deal of business before the crisis to adapt to the reality of the markets, and to reduce or adapt the power of production. I'm sure the company wants to stabilize corporations and activities, because I have the most competitive products and markets, but they're suffering from the consequences of a wrong situation. In front of this situation, the application of development and financial tools is supported by this program, in the course of the financial funding built by new means of stability and corporation development projects. It is also necessary to place ourselves on the table in a context of difficulties and credit-mutations. Having said all this, and focusing already on the care of workers in firms in difficulty, there are many, all in difficulty, those approaching the Government. And the actions deployed by this Government mainly with the representation of the workers, but also with the directions of the workers, in order to provide information on all public actions on the one hand, but also by providing our mediating collaboration in the negotiation processes raised in the course of the implementation of the adjustment mechanisms, which we do not want, but which are often necessary and indispensable. The governing bodies that are primarily engaged in these tasks are, on the one hand, the Directorate of Labour and Social Security, as well as the territorial delegations of Labour, the Department of Employment and Social Policy; the Directorate of Industrial Development, the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness, in addition to the Labour Inspection services where necessary, and the Preco services of the Labour Relations Council. The facilitation activity, on many occasions, of the deployment of good offices for the achievement of agreements between the parties, for which there is a need for many skills and skills, mainly between companies and workers' representatives, requires a great deal of dedication, requires sensitivity, requires the possibility of solutions to really complicated situations, and on many occasions we have succeeded. Not a few times. And I believe that in this statement everyone (with upper case)... , all trade unions and employers agree with the statement I am making to you. I don't think anyone feels helpless with government action when a company goes into trouble. We do what we can. What you can't do is impossible. The extreme complication of the situations that usually arise (only the intervention of the institutions is requested at difficult and delicate times; when things go well, almost no one approaches us; it is not bad), and on many occasions of complicated solution, we face it in a singular, particular way, and it is not advisable its protocolization or standardization by the particularities of the crises of the enterprises themselves. And I'm going to give you an example. The procedure for mediation of the Preco for collective disputes, the only procedure it establishes is one: twenty days of practice for all types of proceedings. Actuations of joint meetings, separately, with each union, with each of the business groups, by phone, by email..., any action is valid so as to achieve what is really important: try to reach the possible agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mr. Azkue, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u83	I appreciate your answer, Mr. Toña. But I just want to focus on one thing, because I didn't invent this, I wasn't in this Chamber 2014, and a decision was made in this Chamber. We're here to tell you that this decision has to be carried out. Of course, I know the work I've done and I've said it, and I think I've made it clear, saying that we've got a lot of things together, and that we're supposed to be on our side, and that we're perfectly complementary. But we believe that when we were in Brussels in such cases, there's a great deal of difficulty in seeing there's something more of it, that the workers need more protection, even the committees, even the unions, because there's something to be done next and next to each other when there's such difficulties, not trouble. SOCRATES: Well then, as you have said, that which is good is never revealed; that is true. In short, what I meant to say... I wasn't just referring to Arcelor. Unfortunately, yesterday we saw the difficulties of Reunited Tubes. Unfortunately, we are all aware that the steel industry in Euskadi today does not even depend on business decisions, so to speak, depends on policies that cannot be adopted even here, not even in Madrid, but in Brussels. But there is something to do here. If we are going to Brussels, it is logical that we come to Lakua first, to say that there are things to be done, and that the protocol that is currently being denied, Mr Toña, must exist to mitigate, and above all to channel a joint effort that can give real solutions to a crisis that will obviously overcome everyone, but which must always be put before something. That is why we really ask you to take this issue seriously, which has a mandate. Eta horrelako gauzak daudenean konplitu behar behar zizin yes. You're a dugu denon onerako ari stationa hitz egiten, dudarik gabe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. Azkue. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u85	Thank you, Mr. Azkue, for your answer. It is to fulfil the agreements taken in this chamber, so that we must be possessed of reality, Mr. Azkue. For we must give a peculiar and particular answer to the states we are dealing with. .............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. But it's not easy, it's not easy to do that. It's not easy. Egya languishes... In the Social Dialogue Bureau, for example, we have been able to protocolize these actions. And, by the way, I do not welcome the fact that this Government has not done its utmost to launch the Social Dialogue Bureau and work with it vigorously, but, well. The Social Dialogue Bureau has agreed with the representation of the Government, Confebask and the trade unions present (with Commissions and UGT) on the implementation of a protocol for the recognition of professional competence acquired by experience, applicable to situations raised in cases of regulation of termination employment, i.e. collective redundancies. I can now be told "Are you going to do something with the ACB workers in relation to this?", and I say to him: Are they in a collective dismissal file? No, fortunately, and let's hope they never are. It is a mechanism, in any case, that sets in motion at the time of communication to the Labour Administration (to us, to the Territorial Labour Delegation), for the knowledge and evaluation of the training accredited by those workers who will be affected by collective redundancies. Normally, our actions try to be placed before there are decisions that are already irreversible of dismissal; therefore, in cases where collective dismissals already occur, then participates the designated body of our Department of Employment, the Labour Directorate, and also Lanbide and the corresponding departments of the Department of Education, basically through the area of vocational training, as it has to be. To this end, among other issues, and in order to be able to implement this agreement as much as possible, last year the Government adopted Decree 211/2015 of 10 November 2015 on the organization, procedure for the evaluation and accreditation of acquired professional competences, through work experience or non-formal means of training. The decree was published a few days later, on 18 November, and approved on a joint proposal by this Employment Adviser and the Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture Adviser. It envisages a mechanism for the implementation of a process of recognition of competences adapted to the times required by these delicate processes, aiming to facilitate as much as possible the level of employability of workers affected by collective redundancies from the very moment of their entry into the unemployment situation. And we have protocolized this in the form of a decree, but to protocolize actions in companies in crisis situations is an impossible one. And it is impossible because the procedure itself – and I have told you before – of resolving collective conflicts precisely makes it more flexible. The procedures for resolving conflicts of this nature are aimed at restoring relations which are often broken, in the face of a word of law or a word of protocol, which would only make it difficult precisely to find agreements. The agreements are sometimes in areas where we are not able to search, but we end up finding them with the consensus of all. Because of this, Mr. Azkue, it's true that he's not exactly filling up the legal agreement taken in this Chamber. Nevertheless, I believe that the Government is of a character adopted in the agreement. In the second place, we are working on the peculiarities of each case, in accordance with the measures and interventions of each of them the most perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Toña. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is that the members of the United States of the United States of the United States were made to resist the corruption of the economy." Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u87	CEO, president. I am sure that we share a concern about what is happening in the evolution of the Basque, national and international economy in the last few months above all. Since 2012, there has been general talk of economic recovery. It is always postponed one year, always that year arrives and it is postponed to the next, and in 2014, and especially in 2015, high expectations were put in place in 2016. Today there is no economic news from any international analyst, from any international organization, who does not speak of any more difficulties on the economy. There are economic difficulties in the United States, there are in Europe, there are in Asia, Germany has financial problems. The OECD today, together with the International Monetary Fund, is in a somewhat complex position to interpret, because on the one hand they say that more reforms and cuts are needed, and on the other hand they are calling for greater public investment. In turn, we are being asked from all economic observatories that indebtedness is excessive and that, therefore, expenditure must be reduced... Finally, I believe that we are again in a political-economic situation without too much north, and I believe that this is a reason for political anticipation and political planning. A few weeks ago, months ago, Mario Draghi said that "it weighs more the risk of acting too late than of acting too soon." And, indeed, we have experience in economics and in the social impact of the economy in recent years, dramatic enough that we are not seeing them coming, but that we react to the extent possible and to the extent of our scale. Obviously, the Basque Country has the capacity to act. It has a budget, it has powers, it has possibilities of agreements, of understandings with institutions, with companies... Finally, we have a framework, a range of important actions. In this respect, and from a planning perspective and of course not to exhaust this debate here, because it has, as I said, a much more complex and much deeper answer, I have a huge interest, my group has a huge interest in knowing whether there is any forecast, if there is any planning, if this worsening of the economy that is to come we will be able to respond with actions and modifications that were not foreseen, for example in budgetary policy, or in the sectoral plans that we have been doing together with that budgetary policy in recent times. Socialists are concerned and at the same time involved. You know that we get wet, we grab our shoulders when it comes to making policies for citizenship, and therefore our concern increases the value and size precisely for that reason, because we are also concerned with seeking solutions. In this sense, it is in which I ask you the question, and I expect your answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u88	Thank you, Mr Price. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u89	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me, Madam President, and allow me, Mr Prieto, to begin this intervention with something that has nothing to do with the question raised by you, Mr Prieto, and it is to express, as lehendakari – and I believe it is on behalf of all those present – our condolences to the family of Hodei Egiluz, once the confirmation of the body identified as Hodei Egiluz has been made official. At the same time as condolence, I also believe it is necessary to offer all the accompaniment that we can do in the duel that, unfortunately, the family and its relatives can do, as well as to express the accompaniment and solidarity to all those other families that also have missing persons. I hope that you too have accepted this introduction to the question, as a way of speaking on behalf of all of you. Mr Prieto, I thank you, of course, I thank you for your tone, and not just for the tone: I thank you for your willingness to help and work, by hand, among all of us who have a concern about what the international world economic situation, which can affect us in the Basque Country, may be. We certainly follow as the Basque Government all the factors that may cause this uncertainty, or that concern at least, such as uncertainty in relation to the Chinese economy, geopolitical risks, the negative effects of the price of crude oil also in certain sectors, the deterioration of Brazil's economy, the rise of rates in the United States... We are also concerned about the political uncertainty in Europe, and its effects also on economic policy, the effect of negative interest rates... We are concerned about all those issues that lead us to analyse on time, on a permanent basis, what the evolution of the economy is. But I would also like to start by responding, saying that the Basque Government has a strategy, and has a solid competitiveness strategy, and that our priority is to consolidate a growth and employment scenario, in which we are in spite of the uncertainties. I want to speak in an optimistic sense, with caution, with great caution, as I think I have been doing in these three years, starting from the observation, from the beginning, that it was going to be a difficult time. We have a plan to boost industry, innovation and internationalisation, and I believe that this is the strategy that reflects the plans that the Finance and Finance Councillor himself mentioned in the first intervention this morning, as well as the intervention of the Employment and Social Policy Councillor in response to the previous question, as regards policies for accompanying and supporting firms in difficulty, as well as policies for supporting and accompanying workers from those firms in difficulty. We do not improvise; we have an economic policy that I believe bears fruit. We've overcome the recession, and we've accumulated eight quarters of growth in a row. Because we know that the basis of growth is to maintain strategy, it is to maintain collaboration, which you have provided and I collect, moreover with great satisfaction, and it is to maintain confidence. I believe that Euskadi is settling the recovery, despite the fact that there are sectors in difficulty. He's settling the recovery, tenth to tenth, employment to employment. We know therefore the uncertainties, but we maintain the forecast of growth for the four quarters of this year, and the estimated growth of the gross domestic product by 2.5%, and achieve an average annual growth in full-time equivalent employment of 1,7 %. Having said that, knowing all the difficulties, we will certainly maintain the strategy, but also our timely analysis to strengthen that strategy with timely action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u90	Thank you, President. Mr Pricee, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u91	Yes, Madam President. We join in the condolences, as it cannot be otherwise, and all the solidarity that can be done with the family, with Hodei's relatives. In relation to the question, lehendakari, I will give you some references, which I think we need to talk about. Beyond a plan, there are forecasts of growth, forecasts of employment, forecasts of economic development, today taxation and fiscal action, collection, is behaving downwards in relation to what had been forecasts and what had been a fiscal effort. Today consumption, which seemed to have rebounded, has dropped. Today there are industrial sectors, also in the Basque economy, which are directly affected by the evolution of the international economy and which, in turn, splatter other sectors towards the future. Well, I think we have important elements to review the economics march, and I hope that...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u92	Thank you, Mr Price. Your time is over. It's over. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u93	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prieto, indeed, the Government is following very closely the economic and business realities of all sectors. And I am not going to quote the meetings that I am holding, because, as I have said in the gallery on enough occasions, I do not like to refer to meetings that also, on the other hand, agents who participate in them request that they be private. I like to act and do it with a diagnosis and a strategy shared with the productive economy. We have done this in all sectors: in the shipbuilding, energy, automotive, white line, equipment, and also in the steel and steel industry. The situation is complex, but I reiterate that the key word is "trust". Our forecast remains, and we are confident that the Basque economy will continue to grow and we will continue to create quality jobs month by month. I usually meet with all kinds of agents, and so do counselors and counselors. I understand that this work is also a reality, and that we also offer it to political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you. The tenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, "The members of María del López de Ocariz López de Muninka, the lawmakers of the Popilative Groups of Economics and the chief department of competitive Economics, the delays of euscal agriculture from the United Politics." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u95	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Madam Councilwoman, at this stage we all know that there have been significant delays in CAP aid for the primary sector of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. We would like to know what assessment you make of these delays, and also what payments were made in the advance payment period, what percentage of payments were made in December, and what percentage of payments were made after December. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u96	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Chief physician, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u97	Thank you, Mr. President. Presidents, chiefs and congressmen, good days to all. As you know, Madame Lopez de Octariz, it is in this law to reform the united agriculture policy, as well as the unions of payment, and even the growth of the field. We've been working both of them, both with the state and Brusel, straight at work, which supposes many things to be altered, that helps should be determined and designed, and that the new system of management should be put into action. And that's where we decided that it's different in our case, and that the forums are involved in making our system co-exist, and that, though it's cost, it's a lot more complexity, and we must also say it's working today, both for the first column, and for the second column. It must therefore be said that the computer system that has had to be put in place, given our specificity, where we share, some of the actions that we have to carry out, between Members and Government, has led us to a certain difficulty and a certain delay in the implementation of that system. But it's working today. And some of the reasons why this payment has been delayed a little over the past year, the 2015 financial year, have been, on the one hand, all the changes that have taken place in the implementation of the CAP. That is to say, it is no longer the same number of people, of workers, of basic workers who receive the aid, because of the change in legislation, the change in the new CAP. There are dossiers that have not yet been completed, and some that have some difficulties and some errors to remedy. And, of course, the principle of prudence (which has always guided us, not only now), whereby, as you know, we have always paid only 80% of the aid in December of the year in question, and left 20% for subsequent remedial measures, if necessary, in such a way that we followed the guidelines of the EAGF and of the European Commission itself and that we have therefore never had any problem with the return of possible aid. How are you feeling right now? Indeed, around 75% received these aid in December 2015, and we hope that the rest will be able to receive it in February. Anyway, I can give you the specifics. To this day they are already found..., 6,765, of 8,786, charged in December, 1,191 will do so in February, and we still have 830 files that require some healing. We hope to do so as soon as possible with regard to that 80%, and the remaining 20%, according to the guidelines that the Ministry itself must establish in the Spanish State, will be done during the first half of the year, as has always been done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u99	Andreak: Madam Counsellor, you have made two points which have led to this delay. On the one hand the problem of computer systems and adapting them. I want to tell you, counselor, that if we spend money on anything in the Department of Agriculture, it's in computer systems. About 100 million, we spend almost 8 million on software. If in addition to that we continue with computer problems, we have a very serious management problem, counselor. And then he tells me that the CAP has been amended. Yes, but that change in the CAP has taken place here and in other autonomous communities. And, for example, an autonomous community adjacent to us, where farmers and livestock farmers are seeing each other all the time... The Basque farmers and farmers have seen how Castilla and León paid 70% of the basic payment on 15 October, as regulated by the committee on 30 September for management. A regulation that is indicated for payments for those sectors that are in situation... because there are sectors that are in special situation of crises and problems, such as the dairy sector in this case and the cereals sector. As I said, Castile and León on 15 October advanced 70% of the basic payment, 51.7% of the green payment, 25% of young farmers' professionals. Aid associated with the milk beef sector was advanced to 1,453 farmers. October 15. Do you believe, Madam Counsellor, that our farmers, our farmers, have the same opportunities, that they play in the same league? No, ma'am, counselor. No way! Then they all come together in the cooperative, and one has charged and the other has not, and the months pass and one has not charged and the other has! Counselor, we have the resources to be in the first league, and we don't use them. I think that, being a complicated year for some sectors, we should have made one more effort here. And I'm very afraid this isn't just about software. I am very afraid that there is a lack of liquidity from this government, a lack of liquidity from this government, as has happened in other sectors that are silent, such as the pharmaceutical sector, which has paid for December? Not the Basque government, is it? They've charged the drugstores, but they haven't. Or what about Lanbide's courses, which I see the counselor there? As the 2015 courses are still unpaid. And so, Madam Counsellor, weak sectors, in a critical situation, and you are so calm. And he tells me that the deputies. Yes, but their great responsibility is to get that to the sectors as soon as possible. And this is not good management, it's bad management. And it seems to me to see you very relaxed for the crisis situation that you have created on many farms. Holdings which have linked their payments to these aids, which have many maturity dates in December, because they know that they will be paid this. And the months run and the interests run. Same as paying contributions to municipalities: surcharge. And many other circumstances. Counselor, I don't think you've made enough effort. That tells me they're computer problems, and that's the end of it, with what we spend on software, and maintenance and so much. Madam Counsellor, I believe that your management in this case leaves much to be desired.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u100	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u101	Mrs López de Ocariz, the payment situation in December is exactly the same as in other years, then I do not compare it to another situation, as if on other occasions we had been paying in October. In any case, the situation of outlaws and the Basque Government, the competences distributed, is not the same neither in Castile and León nor in Castile-La Mancha, nor in any other situation. And we want to share it with the outside parliaments because that's what we've always done. More data, by the way, because you've been forgotten. Uncoupled area payments and social aid for milk cows have been made: 70% of uncoupled area payments have been made; 100% of those receiving social aid for milk cows have been made. Of course, in that 80%, because we have always done so, and because of caution and prevention. It's the data. Therefore, Mrs López de Ocariz, do not tell me that you are in such a terrible situation. It is true that we have to improve and that we have to make it more efficient, but at the moment the situation is not as bad as the one you are telling me.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The eleventh subject on the subject list: "To ask the question, Ichasus González, a member of the Social Council, a member of the United States, a member of the United States, a member of the United States of the United States, concerning the neglect of the bill of the Euscal Ranomy of Eres." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u103	Thank you, President. Yesterday, ladies and gentlemen, we received an e-mail in which the Director of Public Administration and Secretary of the Basque Government certified that on 2 February the agreement was reached to update the legislative timetable, by which the general law on the protection of the environment and the employment law were abolished. They were replaced by the doping law. Without further explanation, a normal, laconic mail. And, therefore, the only explanations we know, Mr. Counsellor, are those given in the press about the withdrawal of the employment law, and some other one that has been given here to ask Mrs. Garrido, which, if I have time, I will also talk about. From the law to which we refer, the Employment Act, when the legislative timetable was presented, stated that its objective was to establish the guiding principles of employment policies, the purpose of which was to increase employment levels. In Mr Lehendakari's speech he said that, among the five priorities, he put in second place the bills aimed at economic revival, and said: law of savings banks (no news), law of cooperatives (on hold), of commercial activity (not known), status of women farmers (that is, yes), and the law of employment (that is not). And the same lehendakari assured in questions from Euskal Herria Bildu, on May 9, 2013, that "We will plan a realistic legislative calendar that can be fulfilled". Well, we're already seeing that this isn't so. In the explanations you gave in the press you said in the first place – because it was two times – that the draft you had inherited from your predecessor was not ambitious enough, and in the second time you wanted to nuance that a little bit, saying that you yourself had not been able to bring the initiative to fruition. Today, to questions from the spokesman for the People's Party on this matter, he said that it was the amendment of the State Employment Act that disrupted this process, and therefore it was also once again left on the dry dock. That is why, returning to the literal tenor of the question, I am formulating it and asking you, appealing to that proverbial frankness that you are demonstrating, what are the real reasons for the abolition of the Basque employment bill from the legislative timetable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u105	The head of the table, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning. I want to announce this apparition that we have played everything we can in the Enplegu and the Police Department of Society, and have been smoking the basic texts of the bill of law. But, on the other hand, by the knowledge of the administrative procedure which belongs to the truth and the law and the project, I must confess that this text is not long enough to reach the legislature before the end of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u106	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u107	Well, it hasn't given them time... The truth, Mr Councilman, is that, I have to tell you, it is no longer the question of the legislative timetable, which has already been said by the opposition that it is a huge failure. I want to focus on the employment policies that would be supported by that employment law. Employment policies, active policies, are being a staggering failure. You're putting more emphasis on passive policies (why not, it's also true), but, of course, when you appeal to passive policies, and this morning I've heard it, you talk about broken goods, and I remember a headline talking about that broken goods that were the bonuses to the transfer of active policies. Transfer of active policies that you also have the defachability – let me tell you – to carry in your electoral program of the previous elections on page 43, arrogating nothing less than such a transfer. And that transfer, with that commodity that was no longer damaged, amounted to 130 million euros in the financial years 2011 and 2012. That's about passive policies. Of the active policies we're really seeing that... By the way, I ask you about employment plans, about the Employment Act: what has the Employment Act fundamentally changed in such a way that it determines? Because I counted, from 2003 to 2015, twenty amendments to the Employment Act. That law is greatly amended. If that's going to be a problem in drafting Basque law, then I think we'll never have it. That is why I ask you to tell us, about the Basic Employment Act, what it is, to what extent. Because in those twenty amendments something is contained is the principle of annuality, the principle of budgetary annuality, and this government has had a budget exercise in local and regional employment plans. Riding between different budget years, only three calls have been made, and have left collaborating entities in a terrible situation...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u108	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Your time is up. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u109	I answer your question, Mr. Itxaso. Active policies are not a failure. They are, like everything else, improveable, and I hope that among all of us we will be able to do so. I would like to point out to you that the drafting of the above-mentioned bill has to bear in mind, without doubt, the competence framework provided for in the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution, which I will not reproduce because you have already done so. But it is true that the development of employment legislation enacted by the State in recent years, the latest text of which has been that of 23 October and is constantly changing, constrains in a notorious way our competitive framework and confines it to organizational aspects, which are many of them that we have to develop in the law. October 23rd, less than four months ago. For this reason, the draft text that we are drafting necessarily needs to be in line with state law. We can't do it any other way, we like it more or we like it less. What is intended to regulate with the Basque employment law, in addition to the design and configuration of a Basque employment system, defining the institutions that have to be part of it, both public and private, requires first of all to achieve the general acquiescence basically of the public institutions called to be part of it, basically the local and outside institutions, with which it would be necessary to conclude after its constitution, after the recent electoral process, which has also determined the delay. In addition, we must not make it obvious that the governance structure of the body devoted to employment policies, active employment policies, must count, as it can also not be otherwise, on the acquiescence of the social partners (unions and business organisations), or, at least, on the absence of a position contrary to it, while also safeguarding the decision-making power of the Government in any case. The need to adapt to higher policy changes, and to have a text in which all parties are comfortable, has led to the withdrawal of this project, as I said, from the realistic perspective of processing. But I would like to make it very clear that we have not given up on its reflection and consensus in a Basque employment system. And I want to dedicate the last minute by saying something similar to what I said in the reply to Mrs Garrido: recognizing the limitation we do not have to see as a weakness, but, let me say it, as a fortress. Not just in my person, but in the entire government. Not only in the government, but also in you, in your group and throughout the House. I will try – and we will all try, I hope – that when it is recognized for each of us that we have not been able to do what we wanted to do, with sincerity, let us see in it not a weakness, but a strength; a recognition of our own humanity, limited but worthy, very worthy.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u110	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 12th point in the theme list: "The question is, that the members of Eva Blanco de Angulo EH collect the members of the staff of the United States and the head physician of the Society, are to adapt the 4/2011 Decrea to the aid of Society." Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u111	Thank you, ma'am. Mr. Chief of Investigation, in a gathering of the whole time, we had attempted to distinguish the enterprises which have been enumerated in this legislature about the social situation. The number wasn't to be ignored; it was exactly more than 80. But this time we want to give the full importance to the media accepted at the whole meeting on March 5th, 2015. The majority of the groups, including the team that supports the funkong, were considered the necessity of adaptation to the AES calling; more protection, more rights, in seeking the advantage of more people. That was our commitment, and today we want to ask the chief physician for his commitment. The deadline is over, Mr. Toña, and the parliamentary groups have not heard from us. Nay, the command which regulates the AES is about to be published, and according to what we suspect, the change will be of no importance. Therefore, this is the exact question we are asking you: what is the adaptation of the Decree, in order to regulate the aid of Social Security, according to what was agreed on in the whole of the 25th of March 2015?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u113	Mr. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. In consideration of the legal application, there was an appeal to a meeting in May, a committee of Socialization. For the Decree 4/2011 Decree (which regulates the help of public affairs in emergency) is necessarily a preliminary admission to the tramitation of the report, in order to change it. Eudele told the company that their representatives couldn't be in the meeting. For this reason the assembly was abandoned. In September a technical meeting was held between representatives of the department and Eudel, already constituted with a series of municipalities. The meeting of the Inter-Agency Commission for Social Inclusion was finally held on 24 November 2015, when it was possible to do so, and at that meeting the department presented the draft amendment to the AES decree you mention. The content of this draft included the proposals, several proposals, to address these assumptions raised in the No Bill 23/2015.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u114	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u115	This legislature has been reduced three times in the last eight days to this tributary, in order not to supply three distinct parliamentary authorities. It's frustrating to us, Mr. Boss, and we really think he's irresponsible. As a matter of fact, the information you've given is familiar to us. We had to request the minutes of the interinstitutional council to know what changes were proposed in the decree of the ESAs, and then it was when we knew that this year the order will be the same as last year. We do not understand, because on more than one occasion we have heard a spokesman from the parliamentary group who supports him saying in this plenary that this decree was being amended, with which we trusted, and we hoped and hope that this amendment of decree will reach more people, expand rights, have more coverage, and thanks to the ESAs we can reach more people from whom we now arrive. But there may be three reasons why this has failed, we understand. One, that the group that supports the Government and you have no relationship, do not speak when the transactions are signed (I don't think that's it); that you didn't know the difficulty involved in this amendment of the decree, that may be another reason; or that you signed this agreement knowing that you were going to fail, to take the picture of the moment. One of the three things. If there really are difficulties in amending that decree, you could also have asked the committee to appear and explain to the parliamentary groups what those difficulties were, and with good will we would certainly have been able to reach an agreement, as we arrived at that day. But that's what you haven't done. Neither amend the decree, the order is going to be the same, nor have we been told. Therefore, non-compliance on all sides. Most of the changes that you proposed there require more budget, and more budget is what is not, precisely. The real thing is that the legislature is over and we are facing a worse situation than we began. People's needs are getting more and more obvious, and in front of them, it's like, "You know, it's like, you know, like, "You know, it's just a pretty close-up affair." And that's called: Constraints. On the eve of the international day of Social Justice, we have to report that fun reduces, just in social rights, in public needs. It's hard, it's sad, but it is, Mr. Chief.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Mr. Toña, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u117	We're finding difficulties in the process change. The greatest difficulty is the delivery of the 4/2011 Decree, the AES, to guarantee incomes, incomes, incomes, and incomes. Besides, we must consider the worths of the most acceptable fortune, which are established in order to form themselves, and to secure the revenues of money. Since Parliament's mandate refers only to the ESA decree, we are working on the possibility of meeting it, but respecting the normative hierarchy and without questioning the entire revenue guarantee system. It's not easy. A new version of the first draft of the decree amending the AES decree has been initiated, because it has been necessary to take into account the content of the draft decree which develops the subjective right to the legal occupation of housing, in accordance with Law 3/2015 on Housing, and Law 9/2015 of 23 December, which approved the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community, which provide for a new economic housing benefit. That's where our budgets will be constrained. The new version of the ESA amending decree is being reviewed by the legal services of the Services Directorate of our department. Once the new version of the decree has the conformity of these legal services, the text will have to be submitted to the reports to which any decree is submitted, to the hearings corresponding to the municipalities, to the entities that manage the ESAs, to the municipalities, to the deputies, to the Foral Diputación de Álava, the consortia, etc. After the examination of the reports and the allegations, the resulting text will have to pass through the ESC, the ECO, the Cojua... prior to its approval by the Governing Council. I'm not telling you anything new, I'm conscious. We are all aware that things would have to go faster than they go. We often have parliamentary mandates in which we then find it difficult to implement them, and in this case it has not been the will to implement it and the delay. It is simply because, when a mandate is made, new mandates or new laws appear that hinder and delay their applications. As soon as this is done, the decree and the parliamentary mandate will be put into effect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u118	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 16th point in the theme list: "Interface, the parliamentary members of the Basque Socialists, María Isabel Céla éguez to study education, politics, and Cultural Academy of the Basque Schools." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u119	Yes, Mrs Uriarte, of the school abuse came the Socialist Group to question him, when we met with the result of the analysis that the non-governmental organization Save the Children has put on the table, one of whose testimonies I did not give up to read for its dramatism: "It all started when I was nine or ten years old... They insulted me, told me that I was useless, a trickster, and I wish I'd died. They made me feel like shit, I couldn't sleep, I had stress, I cried... I was lonely. He had no support from anyone. One day I told my teachers... and they didn't matter. Then they started hitting me, chasing me, hitting me, breaking my notes, my books, my backpack... I came home with bruises... but I never told my parents anything." As the NGO Save the Children says, harassment is not a child's game; it is violence, and we cannot justify it in any way. It generates suffering that leaves strong consequences, and can sometimes lead – as it has already done – to suicide. We don't blame you for this, Mrs. Uriarte, please! The abuse between equals is a reality that has undoubtedly existed in schools and schools for a long time, and that for a long time has even been regarded, regrettably, as something normal, within that culture of silence that came to be imposed and that has been one of the reasons why this abuse has been perpetuated. Today this situation of silence is considered unacceptable, and we know that the fundamental key to this problem is zero tolerance. There is no conduct related to abuse that can be accepted or excused, because we know that even those conducts that have to do with, for example, verbal abuse, and that on many occasions are considered minor, are often the beginning of behaviors and actions of more serious harassment, which reach to physical aggressions. For a long time, the phenomenon of ill-treatment between equals has been linked exclusively to the victim and the victim, and today, however, it is understood that spectators, direct witnesses who witness the fact, and even indirect witnesses, who go from the teaching staff to the educational authorities, the family and, in essence, the entire society, are also involved in this type of situation. The solution to this problem, therefore, cannot, should not be focused on one or two people in particular, but should involve the whole community. So in the last decade, we have effectively increased awareness and awareness of situations of harassment and abuse among equals in schools, so that we have not only developed more research and studies, but have also put in place specific educational programmes, dedicated to the prevention of such conduct and its treatment in the school context. The Department of Education has long been showing its concern and interest in addressing this problem, to the point that it has become one of the strategic axes of analysis and intervention in the centres. In addition to specific measures and proposals of an educational nature, special attention has been paid to the availability of periodic data on the situation and development of this phenomenon. For this reason, the first research on peer abuse in compulsory secondary education was already carried out in the course of 2004-2005. It was carried out by the ISEI-IVEI, based on a questionnaire on school violence prepared for the study of the Ombudsman. We wanted to have comparative data with other contexts. This study was applied in 2005 in the last cycle of primary school. From that moment on we could count on an indicator of mistreatment between equals in Euskadi. Even the Education Committee of the Basque Parliament was aware of this problem, and on 2 March 2007 requested the Department of Education, Universities and Research to carry out such research regularly through ISEI-IVEI. As a result of this request, new studies were carried out in 2008 and 2009, in which conditions similar to the first research were maintained, in order to have comparative data, in order to be able to measure the evolution of school abuse among equals in Euskadi. The latest study published, however, so far, was carried out in 2011 and 2012, and was presented to the Standing Committee on the Observatory of Co-existence. Already in this study there was a certain increase in situations of school harassment in our schools. In recent months we are witnessing a repetition of news related to situations of school harassment in our centers. There is a feeling that this problem is on the rise. However, since November 2012, when the last study of ISEI-IVEI was presented, the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture has not given us any more precise information on the situation of ill-treatment among equals in the Basque centres of Primary Education and ESO. Therefore, Madam Counsellor, we would like to know what your intentions are for this purpose, how you see it, what your own version of the facts is, and whether you intend to conduct a study in the coming dates. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u121	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen. Mrs. Celaá, I fully agree with you, instead of showing the attention of the school revolt and telling you that it's a question of interruption. I know that before the Board of Education had great sensibility and performed certain activities on this subject. I may assure myself that this government naturally follows sensibility and responsibility; No tolerance for the persecution between classmates. And the importance of what I'm really saying remains in the framework of Educational Educational Education in New Year 2020, and also in the Decretal Educational Decret (which, in the latter case, develops through the projects of the School). In this educational project at school, in this document, where the school specifies its worth, principles, targets, and the manner in which they are acquired, the planet finds room for the survival of the school. Our department offered a guide to the schools to update the education project, a guide to help them improve their lives. Moreover, the resolution which is published at the beginning of year's education determines that every school must have an observatory of co-operation, to adapt and update the plan of life in the center of the center. To facilitate the work of the centres, the Education Administration has always sought to provide them with the necessary material resources and assistance. To this end, the guide for action at the educational centres of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi was established in the course of 2004-2005. This guide determines the steps to be taken in cases where a potential situation of school harassment is detected or known. A guide that certainly serves as a great help to teachers and management teams in addressing this complex problem. As you know, the guide has been updated regularly in 2007 and 2011, to adapt to new times and needs. Recently, in November 2015, this Government has carried out a new update, taking into account the suggestions and contributions of the centres, the various services of the Education Administration and other institutions, as well as the information derived from the research and studies carried out. Among the changes made is the replacement of the term maltreatment between equals with that of school harassment. The change in the term is due to the need to avoid confusion detected in the centers in identifying and distinguishing situations of harassment from other situations that, while requiring appropriate treatment, do not conform to the characteristics of this type of behavior. This guide, together with the work of the educational institutions and the monitoring and intervention of the Education Inspectorate in this field, is an essential element in view of the maximum "zero tolerance of school harassment among equals" that must prevail in all the institutions. In this respect, it may be remarked that it is one of the preferences of prevention and of early training at the present time, in the case of a possible educational investigation. And, in truth, it is the activities of the school-birth that are made of all the activities of vision that are 12. Thus the continuation and intervention of inspection in cases of pursuit are constant. This is the subject which every 15 days refers to the committees of the country. School harassment is part of the inspection management plan, which includes each and every one of the actions carried out, in order to be able to carry out adequate monitoring and evaluation. Besides this, there is also a band of men who care for the education of their children in the theatre. This group meets once a month to continue. Besides, they give information and formation to the other visions, giving at least twice the instructions, orientation, criteria, and so on. And always with what I said before: "Not a T-shirt." Therefore, continuous monitoring and intervention by the inspection, which helps us to know the possible cases quickly and take the necessary measures immediately. I should also like to say that ISEI-IVEI, although it has not carried out a specific study on the situation of harassment between equals in primary education and ESO, has continued to maintain interest in this research. Indeed, the collection of data on peer abuse has been reflected in its work plan, and plans to address the drafting of the report on harassment in the near future with comparative data for the years 2013 and 2015. Finally, the agreement signed with the Department of Safety and Security in 2013 should also be highlighted. As you know, this agreement seeks to deepen preventive actions in the face of various situations, such as bullying, cyberbullying, drugs, dangers on the Internet, incivic behaviors or organized youth groups. The fact is that, as we have seen at the follow-up meetings to the Convention, these activities have been very well received. I'm going to transfer some significant data. During the 2013-2014 and 2014-2015 courses, the Department of Safety and Security has carried out 858 outreach activities in educational institutions. In the past course alone a total of 17,943 people attended these talks, especially students, but also families and teachers. In that course, experts from the Department of Safety and Security collaborated with 164 educational institutions. Among the demand of the educational centers to request the collaboration of the security experts are the talks related to the dangers on the Internet, followed by bullying. The participant student rated with more than four points out of five the divulgative talks of the different contents offered by the Department of Safety, and the heads of the centers have rated this initiative with 4.5 out of 5. As you can see, many activities are under way in the areas of awareness-raising and training, prevention, advice to centres, the development of guides and models, and also in the area of analysis and follow-up. Of course, we are fully aware that there is school harassment in the schools. To think otherwise would be naive, would be irresponsible on our part. We know the report published by Save the Children this week. This report clearly reflects that the situation in Euskadi is significantly better than in the rest of the State. I will mention some data: the average percentage of children who are victims of harassment in the State is 8.1 %, while in Euskadi it is 5.3 %; in the case of cyberbullying, the average percentage at state level is 5.8%, while in Euskadi it is 3.6 %. Save the Children says so. As I have said, we are at work, our aim is clearly to put an end to the negative and practice of certain actions which attack the rights of the students. That's why we have to take the school revolt off and delete it as a role belonging to the whole educational community, not just to do the administration. And that's what colleges have to be committed to.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u123	Mrs. Uriarte, your own research into reality is already beginning to be curative. What the ISEI-IVEI has been doing, when it has had the possibility to make a diagnostic evaluation in these years, has been to measure with some isolated questions both in the Primary Room and the second of the ESO, but what happens is that in the Primary Room and the second of the ESO we could not do a comparative performance with what had been the previous analyses, which were fundamentally primary (fifth of the Primary), and the whole Secondary, being precisely these stages in which more cases of school abuse occur. Should we take the study of Save the Chindren for granted as far as the figures are concerned? Do we have to welcome the Prosecutor's report, as it tells us that the number of complaints of school harassment has increased significantly, and in relation to this issue it also points out that in 2014 there were six cases in which young people appear who express suicidal ideas or carry out self-righteous acts, of destruction, compared to the two cases of the previous year, and, moreover, it points out, there was a suicide committed, although it does not appear registered because there has been no complaint? Do we have to pretend to be...? This obviously, but, of course, this refers to very serious cases. And this, then, you told me that too. [[Show some papers]] But what I want to say to you is that in 2012, in fact, when it is measured, and measured thoroughly, it is measured to the extreme. That is, when we generate the Observatory of Living together – of which I have never heard of it, the Observatory of Living together – the first presentation that is made to the Observatory of Living together is precisely this study of 2012, which marks the rate of abuse both in Primary and Secondary, and measures, in this abuse that is being corrected from Primary to Secondary, measures verbal abuse, physical abuse, aggression to belongings, social exclusion and cyberbullying. And in Secondary, in addition to this I have commented to you, sexual harassment is also measured. This provides very important data to your department to actually make a comparison. It is true that you say, says Save the Children, that the Basque Autonomous Community is not badly situated in this area, and we are happy, but, of course, to be touched by that percentage... Look at you! Because this is a matter that is personally suffering, and we have to keep so high the alert state, the alert state in schools, that it does not happen. So it doesn't happen in any way. So it doesn't happen in any way. When, especially at this moment, through the networks, that suffering is transmitted in a greater way. That is why I say to you, Mrs Uriarte, that it would be very interesting for you to give the directive to your evaluation institute so that you could make a measure that was comparative to the previous years. We have one for 2012: make a comparison, in the primary years of those who were measured, 2012, 2009, previous..., and 2016. Because that doesn't just matter when you have your own data, it doesn't just matter at that time. It matters because the measurement increases the positive tension in the centers and improves the situation. I'm asking you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u125	Mrs. Celaá, since this demand had been made, encouraged by the groups in the department, ISEI-IVEI did research related to 2008 and to the 2009 years, and until 2012 there was no further account of data. Having regard to the reports of 2008 and 2009, in which the data were practically repeated, on the proposal of the ISEI-IVEI team itself, it was considered that it was not necessary to carry out this study every year, for two reasons. On the one hand, according to their data, and according to the process followed in other research related to this type of phenomenon, it was more appropriate and relevant to allow some time to pass between one study and another, so that its evolution could be more clearly measured. And on the other hand, because in this way the continuous discomforts generated by this type of research in schools were reduced. In any case, as I mentioned earlier, the ISEI-IVEI and also this department have continued to maintain interest in this investigation. The collection of data around bad deals is in the plan of his work, but with a new method of development of the editor of the ISEI-IVEEI in favor of the Council. This method of variation consists in: To take advantage of the process of evaluation, which is performed at all Eukadical schools. This allows us, without causing any further inconvenience in the schools, to be the data of the whole census of the students of evaluation, and not, as it has been, the answers of a sample. It is, no doubt, a significant fact, and I can assure you that any further investigation has hitherto been made has no such data. We already have data in the evaluations of 2013 and 2015. This allows us to report the bad treatments between our first education and the DBHn classmates with the comparative data of 2013-2015 years, and we can also introduce them as you did in our survival observation. In addition to the ongoing research work since ISEI-IVEI, the work that has been carried out since the educational inspection has been strengthened, allowing us to detect any variation in the number of cases as well as in the distribution by gender or age, or even in the typology of the cases. I would like to take this opportunity to present the most significant data. In the past 2014-2015 a total of 268 cases were reported, of which it was concluded that there had actually been school harassment in 67 cases, i.e. in 25% of the cases reported. It should be noted that, if we look at the evolution of the last five courses, the number of cases reported has increased considerably, from 121 in the 2010-2011 course to 268 in the last course, however, the percentage of cases actually confirmed has been decreasing, from 50 % of the 2010-2011 course to 25 % in the last course. I mean, only one in four is really harassment. We believe that this development is really positive, since, while awareness of the issue is increasing, actual cases of school harassment are decreasing. This trend also continues in the first quarter of this course, although it should be noted that there has been an evolution that we will follow very closely to know its real impact. In the first quarter, the Education Inspectorate received 155 complaints or harassment reports, compared to 82 in the same period last year. It should therefore be noted that there has been a significant increase in reported cases. Undoubtedly a striking fact, which responds to a significant increase in awareness and awareness of school harassment. This increased awareness is linked to the fact that a number of very media events have recently taken place. As they have pointed out since the inspection, it is usually the case that the media's role in a case of harassment is reflected in the increase in complaints received. In any case, it must be borne in mind that we are still at the beginning of the course, and it is necessary to wait for all the course data, since the figures are usually stable. The most important thing is: even though the number of accusations has been raised, this is in itself not bad, because it is the pointer of a larger sensibilization, which concludes that the percentage of real cases, which have been the education of the schools, is still preserved. Mrs. Celacha, close and continuous tracking, formation, consciousness, prevention, and hand in every direction that can be taken. That's how we're working, again, with a major purpose: Not a T-shirt with school harassment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary lawmen of the Belénours under the EH Rockould, made to the chief physician of Education, Language Polite, and Culturate, in the course of the past few years of the year to conclude the reductions which have been applied to public education." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u127	Good afternoon. As the head physician of education knows that the unions which are representatives of the professors of Araba, Biscay, and the public education in the gym have announced that if it continues to continue with politics and attitudes, mutations will begin against reductions. The restrictions which have occurred during the past few years have had a striking effect on schools, bad effects on daily work, and on the conditions of the professors, but, until now, the Board of Education has not taken any precautions. Collecting EH clearly shows that it is necessary to end with reductions to ensure quality and conditions of work. And we agree with the petitions made from schools and motives: the exact measures must be taken for the recovery of what has been lost by the reduction police, and to guarantee the quality of education. The situation of today is disturbing. Particularly in public education. In addition to what has been said, it has been discussed before, there is the effect of the community of students from without, and of all that, if not of the means. To make plurality an opportunity, you must take your measures and place the necessary resources. As I said, it's a disturbing situation, even from our point of view. And that's why we're asking if, in the past few years, they've been applied to public education to end up with subpoenas, it'll end.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u129	Andrea president. Madameburdo, it seems that we have a different point of view: You're talking about supposedly pretty cuts in public education. I, on the other hand, see that in a very difficult financial situation the government has given priority to education, as an essential service, and that it has increased the budget supply. We've put 2.842 million in this year's budget. Hence, however difficult the economic situation may be, in order to offer better services in education, the efforts of the division from the very beginning of the law are what it is necessary to appreciate. It is by this wager that the indicators say that Eukadin has a first-class education. The investigation of OCDE 2014 places us in the first place of the state. He's a member of the community who invests most of every member of the American community. Our education has received the prize of excellence in 2015. According to an inquiry published by Save the Childen, Erkadi is the most decent education, even the smallest vacation in the school, under the average of Europe. All this, Mrs. Arrido, because education is far from serious restrictions, and because it's still a first class for this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u131	Thank you. Today, too, the chief physician remains looking away from us, and we're used to listening to the expression of such self-conscious self-pity, aren't we? But reality is something else. You say it's a priority for you and the government, and we tell you in the last few years, from 2009 to today, 3% to 3,6 percent of education. I won't say that in these years education has less than 222 million dollars, but at least it has lost the weight in the budget, so we're in a bad shape. And in the past years, the license has made it very remarkable in our education, and especially in public education. But the number of professors is not up, and at least they would need teachers above a thousand at this moment, if we consider how the plate went up. We can talk about the instability of the teachers, we can talk about replacements, we can talk about the purchase capacity the teachers have lost, how they get punished when they get sick, even in the last years. After all, the conditions of work have been mistaken, but not the work-horse has increased. What improvements, what excellence, what projects do you mention, if people work every day in a worse condition, if they don't come to work properly in their everyday life? Many things are done in education, yes, but most of them are done by means of the will of the teachers, and not of the means which are laid down. When the conditions of labor are reduced to excess, the quality of education, whether desire or not, is diminished.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u133	Mrs. Gardo, you forget your economic situation, I think. As I told you, this government has made an important effort to guarantee quality in the education system, which is still the priority for us. I think we're all aware of economic difficulties. In the same way, we ought to realize that the quality of public service is preserved and made to support it. And I have to tell you that I don't agree with some of your statements. With regard to the rate of temporaryity, the unions themselves are well aware that interinity responds to some extent to the necessary flexibility, due to changes in all courses in educational establishments. With regard to the coverage of casualties and replacements, we currently have a framework of considerably more favourable conditions for the care of students, the organization of centres and the development of the work of teachers. In addition, the conditions set out in the 2010 Decree's Working Conditions Regulatory Agreement continue to be maintained. On the other hand, the OPE that the department will convene in the coming days, of 577 places for the faculty of Secondary, will bring greater stability to the Basque educational system and will offer the possibility of a stable and high quality employment to almost six hundred people. In any case, I must insist that this amount does not correspond to what the Government wants, needs and claims, but to the maximum number of places allowed by the basic state legislation. That is why this Government will continue with calls for public employment offers, in order to achieve greater stability of the system and a higher quality of education and training for our pupil, the main object of our educational policies. Finally, and, as is evident, we have suffered the severe consequences of the global economic crisis, and we are still suffering from all public officials, and consequently it has affected the degree of our purchase. Like most people in society, Mrs. Arrido. In any case, speaking strictly and objectively into the sphere of discipline, we must show that the conditions of the professors are the best in the state, and the wages are the highest in the state, which all the teachers know. Besides, and contrary to what happens to the professors of other commonwealths, the professors of Esscal follow the manner of working in the treaty of teaching; and consequently they have conditions enough for any professor of any other kind of society to desire.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Reformation, Rebeka Ubera Aranz, and EH, made for the head physician of the Medical Department, about the announcement of a new public offering in Osa. " Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u135	Good afternoon. Photo: Plantilla structure, official planilla in Osata, 25.816. Every day they're working 31,800 people, but nomines 36.800, they're confessing. The provisionality, 34%, and the Medical Department recognizes 20 percent. At least 3,000 jobs have been destroyed in the past few years. Checked out jobs for 2015, 4,600 hidden jobs that don't show and do not come to work through experience, which are filled with work-stacks. In the meantime, the medical department dug up in the prevarication of the Osar, instead of cutting it off by the roots, and the marketing-deceals which lead them nowhere. In 2015 there was a job offer. The job offering makes 507 squares open, 507 next to nothing. But the list, we don't know when they'll be out (two years, year after year, year and a half... ), and those who have contributed to it, will not know whether they shall have the square or not. Now, the member has announced that about the spring he will call another public offer of work from 2,000 Squares without any specifications and instructions. We don't know what the conditions will be, what the criteria will be, what health workers will have to present... Shall they be introduced or not, without knowing what the results of OPE had been? Lists. How to make lists: Is the job offer made in 2015 and the list next? Everyone's gonna have theirs? So the medical professionals will see themselves compelled to present themselves to the offer of work, without knowing what the result of the previous offer of work will be, how many squares and so on will be made, and so on. Just darkness. So what we want to know is: Will the new public offer of memberships be completed after the public offer made in 2015, and the results of the public offer are resolved and known, with all the predetermined criteria, Mr. Darpón?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u137	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Ubera andrea, has taken a photo of Osakidetza from the point of view of the staff. Appreciate it. I know him well; I'm one of them. Just like you had to read the data. On the other hand, you have given us your appreciation of the OPE data we made in 2015, and you have drawn my attention, although you have not named it here, that in the justification of the question you have described it as an "irrisory" OPE. An irritating OPE in which 57,501 people participated voluntarily, who have participated gladly and deserve all respect. An OPE convened and celebrated, as the next one will be, with all the legal guarantees. Look, the government doesn't demagogy on employment issues. We do not play with the effort or the illusion of people pursuing a stable job. You and the Members of this House know that if we had not respected the replacement rates imposed by the Government of Spain, and at all times we were against them, the result would have been a suspended OPE, as has happened in more than one community, and would have been today a thousand fewer stable jobs in Osakidetza. From that list you have read here, thanks to us, a thousand more stable jobs. You have asked for more places on several occasions. We too would like to call them, but the only alternative has unfortunately been to respect the replacement rate. Ubera andrea, that ez ez ez ez mercy. A thousand places, or none. Although he did not like to hear it, Osakidetza had negotiated that OPE in multiple meetings with social representation. In multiple meetings. And it has also respected the principles of equality, merit and capacity. It is not to despise a thousand stable jobs in the current economic situation. I would be grateful if you would tell me on the next shift if you know of any company that has created a thousand stable positions in this legislature, public or private. As for the new OPE of Osakidetza to which you refer, look, it is a firm commitment of the Government. We will finish the legislature by calling more than two thousand places in the Basque health system, and logically we will carry it out after its timely negotiation process, to which we are ready, but for which two parts are needed at the table, and in perfect synchronization with the development of the OPE currently under way.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u138	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u139	Mr. Darpón, you didn't answer my question. The question was not about a thousand squares and a rating of the previous offer. I made my rating, I took my picture, but what I asked you for is the criteria of the new offer, the instructions, and you didn't tell me, you didn't tell me. I mean, how are the lists going to be composed? When's the new offer going to be made? After the results of the previous offer are solved? And they need to know, the workers need to know. And here those who have no respect for workers are you, it's the health department, it's the Osar. You have said that there must be two divisions, and here there is only one part of you, and you have made all the decisions on one side, without counting the delegation of the workmen. And it seems to us that we don't tell them about the workers, now that we're about to announce the new offer without giving them an explanation. And, of course, they've been introduced because they have no choice. They have seen themselves forced, and will see that they are obliged to it again, because there is no remedy here, and that the state of employment in which Hosa co-exists, the state of pre-collection, cannot be remedyed. So, what do they do in the new bid, introduce or not? Introduce or not? What are they going to do? Do they know what OPE's result of 2015 was before? Will they know how to make lists?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera... Thank you. Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u141	Mrs. Ubera, how we think of developing a new employment offer. To illustrate all my doubts, I will determine several aspects which I consider to be the fundamental. The people who have presented themselves have voluntarily presented themselves, Mrs Ubera. Osakidetza's new public job offer will be published this year so as not to lose the annual workforce replacement rate, because we are concerned about stable employment. In view of this replacement rate, I have already told you that the OPE will be around 1,000 places, to which the internal promotion will have to be added. The distribution of places by professional category and the basis for the call will be negotiated at the sectoral table, as was done in the previous one. The places will focus on those categories that have not been convened in the OPE 2014-2015, without prejudice to being able to re-include places of the most massive categories for a theme of equity. This proposal has already been presented to trade unions at the sectoral table on 17 February. The development and implementation of the tests, as we have already said, will not be carried out this year, so we will avoid the crossing of selective processes with the OPE currently under way. In short, the Government is committed to stable and high-quality employment. Osakidetza will continue to celebrate OPE with the maximum legal guarantees to consolidate employment and ensure the future of its services. And I agree with you: I would like to remove all available seats. But we are going to take out those that we are able to cover with legal certainty, out of respect for the people who aspire to work in Osakidetza. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u142	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. As the nineteenth point was left for another, the twentieth point in the subject-list: "To ask," said María del lópez de Ocariz López de Muninka, a member of the Populative Groups of the United States, a treaty made with the Basque Agency of the Water Office, by which it is charged with certain activities in the hydraulic public jabe, about the farming, Elika, and the disappearance of the Ministry of Environment in 2016." Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u143	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Counsellor, the resolution of 19 January 2016 publishes the partnership agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment, the cantabrian and Ebro hydrographic confederations and the Basque Water Agency, which commission various activities in the field of hydraulic public domain in the inter-community basins of the territory of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country. And that is why we ask the lady to advise an assessment of this agreement.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u144	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u145	Good morning, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmen. Indeed, as the honourable Member is well aware, since this is expressed in the explanatory memorandum of the partnership agreement which he cited, on 31 May 1994 the then Minister of Public Works, Transport and the Environment and the Department of Transport and Public Works signed an agreement under which the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country was entrusted with the processing of authorisations relating to the public-hydraulic domain, as well as the police of the latter, in the cantabrian and Ebro river basins and by which the criteria for collaboration for the development of hydrological planning were determined. That convention was still partially in force in 2015. By virtue of the principle of collaboration between the administrations, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Environment and the Basque Government, through our department, considered it of interest to define a new general framework to replace that established in May 1994, after almost twenty-two years, and to materialize with criteria of effectiveness and coordination the actions of the entities concerned in the territorial field of the watersheds that pour their waters into the Cantabrian Sea and the Ebro basin. There had been many legislative changes from 1994 until now, at both the state and the autonomous level, which required revision, adaptation of the terms of the agreement then signed, and also strengthening administrative management measures aimed at increasing the effectiveness of the management of the tasks entrusted. We have had many long meetings between the Ministry, the Directorate-General for Water, the hydrographic confederations, the Basque Water Agency and the Environment Department of the Basque Government itself, and we have reached an understanding between the various parties, so I understand that from now on the hydraulic administration will be more effective and more efficient. Therefore – you ask me for my opinion – I believe that this agreement will lead to an improvement in the service we provide to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u147	Indeed, Madam Counsellor, as you have said, it is an agreement which I interpret as generous, with the Government of Spain, Mr Rajoy's Government. An agreement by which the Ministry, the Water Directorate, will pay annually, for four years and four extendables, 350,000 euros to URA; the Cantabrian Hydrographic Confederation, 200,000 euros a year to URA; and the Ebro Hydrographic Confederation will pay another 200,000 euros a year to URA. A total of 750,000 a year will be paid to URA for the processing of files. We don't set the number of files, we don't know if they're one or seven hundred. In any case, that's why we interpret it as a generous agreement, and a generous agreement that is, in addition, uniquely, outside the quota, with which we understand that, well, it is a direct income into the URA account. And it doesn't seem bad to us, we understand there's been that deal. What I would like, or I have the impression that you do not communicate to the members of your cabinet..., is that this agreement is in these circumstances: it was signed on 23 December (Government in office), which has been published on 19 January (Government in office)... Because then, of course, we hear the government spokesman when he comes out to explain to the citizens the things of the government, frankly alarmed because he has great difficulty in reaching agreements with a government in office. For this agreement has been signed with a government in office, and it has been published with a government in office. Therefore, Mr. Mariano Rajoy's Government in office works, works, and this is proof of that. There are others, but this is one of them. And what we want is for it to be a loyal administration and not to tell lies. Therefore, Mr Rajoy's Government, neither in full activity nor in office – which is also in full activity – harms or causes harm to this Autonomous Community, because it has been very generous throughout the legislature and is being equally generous in office. Therefore, we want a government that is loyal, respectful to the citizens who say it goes out to inform – which I interpret that it intentionally disinforms – and that it is loyal to the administrations. That's what we want from the government, not to lie to us.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u148	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u149	Look, Mrs López de Ocariz, I don't know whether it's a generous agreement or not. I think we have been negotiating this agreement for a long time, and we have reached this agreement, and I have already told you that I am reasonably satisfied with it, because it will allow us to work better from now on. But I also told you in my first speech that we are talking about the renewal of a convention, because there was already an order agreement of the year 94: almost twenty-two years since that convention was signed. During those twenty-two years we have repeated over and over again to the different heads of ministries that have been in these twenty-two years, and we have never managed to get them to even appoint the members of the follow-up committee who established these successive agreements. I am therefore glad that this agreement has been signed, I trust it will be complied with, because it will allow us to work much better, and it also brings that part, which you have said, to the EUR 750,000. It should also be noted that since 2004, part of the agreement had not been complied with as regards the economic compensation for the application of water fees, because the ministry unilaterally decided to stop paying it. We have negotiated – I personally – with many ministers in this legislature of Mr Rajoy, starting with Minister Arias Cañete and then with Mrs García Tejerina, and we finally signed on 23 December. But while we have been four years, three years, the three that we have lived with that Government and ours, three long years, and finally, indeed in office, signed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. The twenty-first theme in the subject list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Society of Natalia Rojo Sozana Sozialists to the Chief of the Environmental and Regional Polite, not to comply with the order of protecting the biopot of the Uribe Coast." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u151	Yes, thank you, President, and good afternoon to you all. Commissioner, on 12 February 2014, that is to say, just over two years ago, this Parliament adopted a compromise amendment in parliamentary committee which said: "The Basque Parliament urges the Government, within a period of not more than six months" (over a year and a half past those six months), "initially approve, for further processing, a plan for the management of natural resources for the protection and conservation of the environmental values and natural heritage of the Uribe Kosta-Butron area, so that such space can be declared a protected biotope, in turn initiating the procedure for inclusion in the European Natural 2000 network, in coordination with the proposal of the Marine Network promoted by the State Administration". That compromise amendment was adopted without any vote against; with the favourable votes of EH Bildu, Basque People's Party and Socialist Party, and the Basque Nationalist Party, which is the party that supports the government, did not oppose it, but abstained. Therefore, the question we want to ask you is when the parliamentary mandate will take effect.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u152	Thank you, Miss Rojo. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u153	Good morning, again. Mrs Red, pursuant to Article 29.2 of Law 42/2007 of 13 December 2007 on Natural Heritage and Biodiversity, and its text amended by this House on 22 September 2015, if different figures of protected spaces overlap in the same place, the rules governing them must be coordinated in order to be unified into a single integrated document. I also think it is necessary to remember that in the last six years the absolute priority that we have taken from the department I run has been the complete implementation of the Natura 2000 network in Euskadi, designating the whole of the fifty-two special conservation zones (ZECs) and establishing the conservation measures for those fifty-two ZECs and the seven terrestrial ZEPAs in our territory. This is implying a very intense effort and dedication on the part of both the technical services of our department and the technical services of the outlaws, in the case that concerns us that of Bizkaia, which has forced us to leave for a second phase of planning everything that is not in this first phase of conversion of the spaces that were already declared LIC (places of community interest) in ZEC, which you know well. This process of designation of the fifty-two ZECs (of the fifty-two LICs that are becoming ZECs) is planned to be completed during this year 2016, and from there we will continue with other proposals for incorporation or also expansion of spaces. And in the case of Uribe Kosta-Butroe, as I also answered in a written question, we hope to include it for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u154	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u155	Yes, thank you, President. Well, between ZEC, LIC and ZEPA, he hasn't answered the question: when will he fulfill the parliamentary mandate. And you have today given me the same excuse that you have given me in each of the different parliamentary questions that this parliamentary group has asked you, but which has also made you EH Bildu, the parliamentarian Dani Maeztu. And I say to you that the excuse of overlap is an excuse, because it is legally possible and even desirable that the same natural space be protected by different rules and instruments. Thus, for example, a marsh can be protected by the Ramsar Convention and at the same time can be declared a protected biotope under Basque law. For example, Urdaibai is a biosphere reserve under UNESCO's MAB programme, part of its area is also LIC and ZEPA, and its marshes are also protected by the Ramsar Convention. My concern is that in this Parliament we are simply discussing and reaching agreements on the part of the different groups, so that the government can end up doing what it wants. But what worries me even more is that the Basque Nationalist Party, which is the party that supports the Government, is part of these agreements, which are the agreements to which it is a party, to avoid problems in the parliamentary committee, because then they know that the Government is not going to carry it out. We talked about this yesterday. Pass with the DOTs, pass with this, because you, from the minute one that passed this initiative through Parliament, to each of the parliamentary questions your answer has been "I will protect you, but as you please or as you please". This Parliament has decided that we want Uribe Kosta to be declared a protected biotope. We know that there are other forms of protection, other instruments of protection, but this Parliament, in the right we are given, and above all the responsibility – because we do not make decisions here by occurrence – we understand that the best protection is the figure of the biotope. His party felt the same, and I can tell you, chronologically, everything that has been going on with the biotope issue. In July 2009, there was a Supreme Court ruling. In September 2009 there was already a naturalist association that began working on the subject of biotope. In April 2010, a campaign of ecologists for the creation of biotope was launched. In 2010 there was a meeting of the vice-counsel to start declaring the protected biotope. In the autumn of 2010, the Bizkaia General Councils, to which you have alluded, unanimously, decided that they wanted the protected biotope for the area of Uribe Kosta (always governing the same party). At the end of 2010, the Deputy Environment Adviser spoke about the need and the statement as a protected biotope that had been proposed in the House. The question, therefore, is why this Government does not fulfil parliamentary mandates. It is, then, that if you do not believe in the ability of the opposition groups to make policy, then the same thing you have to do is dissolve Parliament! Because all we do is discuss and agree, so that you do whatever you want. With the mountains of Trianus they were interested, and protected. Why don't you do the same with Uribe Kosta?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u156	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u157	Mrs Red, of course, if something cannot be said is that the scope of Uribe Kosta-Butroe is unprotected. In addition to the precautionary regime that is established in the order of beginning of September 2012, by which the drafting of the PORN begins, we also have the ZEC of the dunes of Astondo, which was declared in 2012, the marine ZEPA, the legislation of coasts, the regulations on environmental assessment, and in addition to it are of application more instruments of application: the Territorial Plan Sectoral of Protection and Management of the Coastal, the Territorial Plan Sectoral of Wetlands, the Territorial Plan Sectoral of Margins of Rivers and Arroyos, the Territorial Plan Sectoral Agroforestal, the Hydrological Plan of the Hydrographic Demarcation of the Eastern Cantabrian 2015-2021, the management plans in Bizkaia of the European mink and the Moñudo cormorán... Therefore, I believe that the space is perfectly protected, and I have also told you in my first intervention that we are working on the designation of the first wave of planning of the ZECs; on the conversion of the LICs into ZEC, which you know well. In those fifty-two first spaces that were declared by the European Union under the Habitat Directive, which must be declared ZEC, in addition to the seven ZEPA. Once all this work that we are working on in collaboration with the outside parliaments – because you also know that it is they who then manage all the natural spaces, and therefore all the works must be in collaboration, as we are repeatedly reminded of in this House and so we do – we are moving with them in common agreement to continue in the next phase with new spaces, as can be the whole of this area, starting from the ZEC of the dunes of Astondo, which will be expanded by incorporating all those spaces that are also referred to within the PORN, which are only a small percentage of the hectares that will finally be a great ZEC in that area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-19.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two o'clock in the afternoon and twenty-five.
