ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. I may inform you, that five and ten points in the subject list have been withdrawn, and that the ninth point will be discussed in the fifth place. The 12th point will be the fourth that will be discussed, and the fourth, in the place of the twelfth. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, the members of Mien Josun Gorosune Elerkano Eerkano, the members of the staff of the United States, made to the president about the economic predictions of 2016." Mrs. Gorose, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u1	Mrs. Chief, good morning to all. Good morning, President. If we read the summary of "in a di-da of a "Conventure," 2015, we can read: The economic economy of Esquimia Esquimia was raised 3% in the third quarter of 2015. The US forces rise in a steady rhythm. The KPI cleared the variation rate. Other energy exports are still in the highest levels. He asked her about two more tests we mentioned this year in January: On the one hand, in order to class the data of the poll (PRA) according to the activity of the population (PRA), which in the fourth quarter of 2015 corresponds to the Basques, and to the incest (EPA) of the active population, the results of the fourth quarter, in this case also. But in this case, whether of the State or of the Basques. Atzo bertan, Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatearen azken lan txostenaren genuine isan berri. He said that yesterday we could read, lehendakari, in the press, headlines like this: "The fall of long-term unemployment makes the recovery of Basque employment a reality". Holders based on the last report of the University of the Basque Country-Euskal Herriko Unibertsitatea. Todos estos informes y studios acensir una tendencia postiva de la coconognos vasca, en terminus tant de crecimito como de creación de Empulo. And that's the goals of the World's New Year's New World, which are recorded in Economics and Epleu Plan. That's our question, President. With respect to the growth, and, above all, the production of employment opportunities, what influence can economic conditions in the economic future of this event in 2016, according to your analysis and rating? Thank you in advance, President, for the answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Gorospe. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Miss Gorospe, for starters, I'm going to quote the closing of 2015. As you said, economic growth has been higher than expected, and the position of work has been positive. Above all, we must distinguish the progress of industry and tourism. Industrial Eescal economics is the engine, and its growth was the third,5 points in the past year. We've known the best results in touristism the year before. The year of growth has therefore been, and the most important thing is that employment has been created. Tenderity has been encouraged, and we foresee that more employment will be produced next year. It is our priority to encourage high-quality employment opportunities, and we must say that in the last 15 years we didn't recognize the downfall of the unemployment we've met in the past year. The Basque economy has behaved as we thought. Gross Domestic Product has grown by 2.8%, one tenth more than forecast, with good performance of industry and services. The Industrial Production Index grew by 3.5% last year. It is more indicative of the significant acceleration of investment. Tourism data indicate that the positive expansion of this activity continues. Overnight stays in hotels increased by 16.3% last year; for the first time in its history, Euskadi has surpassed 3 million visitors. This progress is the result of the strengthening of our country brand, Basque Country. Employment data confirm a positive trend. This week we knew that in January, people affiliated with Social Security reach 898,000. This represents 20,000 more than a year ago. The recorded unemployment has fallen by 17,400 people, a fact that reinforces the positive trend of job creation, because for 15 years there had not been such a significant drop in unemployment in the Basque Country. Our central objective remains to contribute to generating jobs and quality. The growth forecast for 2016, for this year, stands at around 2.5%. We hope that stability, confidence-building and increased access to credit will foster household consumption and business investment. The forecast is that industry will maintain its growth profile thanks to the economic upturn and the good market conditions, with cheap oil, a depreciated euro and access to credit at more competitive prices, although we are aware of the risks that persist in the international context. In the labour market our forecast aims to consolidate the increase in employment and a decrease in the unemployment rate to 13.4% on average annually. In short, we're still moving forward. The Basque economy is prepared to take advantage of economic recovery. Our goal is to grow and do it in the right direction, we have to generate future. We will continue to generate the Basque Country brand to set the expectations of investment, tourism, advanced services and exports. We will continue to maintain our support for the company; we must continue to create the conditions for industry to be a fundamental asset of the future of Euskadi. Our bet is innovation, industry 4.0, technology and internationalization. We're on the right track and we have to stay on course. This year, Euskadi will continue to grow and create jobs. This is our foresight and commitment.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Oskar Mate García de Jalón EH meeting members of the Society Department of Police and Eplegu and Society, in order to conform to the rules and regulations of the 3th of November 2010 of the Housing Department." Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. On the 7th of April, 2014, the other proposal of the Basque Act was approved by the change of orders from the head of the 15th of November 3th of November, which is applied to the public park of the Rents. It's been two years since the initiative was approved, and housing law has been approved and we can't see the light will to go back to the state. That's why, considering he approved of the parliament, we'd like to know if it's all over with the orders and regulations of November 3nd, 2010. That's all.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u6	Thank you, Mr. Matute. To answer, Chief, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u7	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. Mr. Matute, as you may know, the Department of Eplegu and Social Policia had already set up the main measures taken in the exchange on the 7th of April 2014. First, the Deputy Housing Adviser's instruction of 12 December 2013 was adopted, the aim of which is to reduce income to those whose incomes have declined significantly and permanently. As an exceptional measure, tax year income is not taken into account, but income is established on the basis of current accredited income. From December 2013 to December 2015, a total of 1,346 special income applications have been processed favourably in this regard. Second, the instruction of 24 January 2014 was issued, the aim of which is to ensure that no initial income from public park dwellings exceeds the annual income of the living unit by 30 %, together with the corresponding community costs. And, thirdly, the Alokabide Board of Directors agreed on 31 March 2014, with retroactive effect to 1 January, to pay the IBI of the houses it owns. So, lo, M. M. M. M. M. M.M., the economic and social situation of many families has been working with an important, urgent, effective measure for those who rent public park housings.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u8	Thank you, chief physician. Mr. Matute, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u9	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Toña jauna, you have told us about the implementation of some of the measures adopted in that non-law proposal. It is true, that Mr Aburto said the same thing, I believe that in the reply to Mr Maneiro, from UPyD, when he questioned him about the non-compliance or non-development at that time of some of the measures envisaged in the non-legislative proposal. You spoke to us again today about what Mr Aburto, the former Councillor for Employment and Social Affairs, had already told us in 2014 that he was working, that is to say, what has to do with 30% of the expenditure earmarked or the economic provision earmarked for the payment of housing, and what has to do with the IBI; but he did not speak to us again or about the supplementary provision of housing, which was one of the points that was included, nor did he talk to us about the possibility that tenants could take part in the decisions, which was also another of the elements envisaged in the non-legislative proposal. We sincerely believe, and so we say..., and this debate, moreover, we have not come to look for guilt, we could have an easy debate that probably provides few solutions, and it is to point out the current reality, and the current reality is that, despite the economic growth of which the lehendakari has spoken at the previous point, you yourself have pointed out that this economic growth in macro data is accompanied by an increasing precariousness in employment, which makes it impossible for many people who get jobs not even guaranteed the possibility of fleeing from social exclusion, of fleeing networks or from the claws of social exclusion and, therefore, of not having a decent housing, of that legality that we have to respect, like that of the Spanish Constitution itself, which guarantees the right to housing, but does not make it effective. And that's the reality we have. In other words, there is a non-law proposal that points to a number of measures. They were probably not even all the necessary measures to prevent evictions, but not even those measures have yet been put in place. And reality is clumsy, and reality tells us that in 2013, in 2014 and 2015 there were evictions of public housing. I am no longer even talking about the evictions that banking entities promote for people who occupy homes and who are linked to banking entities through loans that they cannot cope with because of an economic reality arising from impoverishment, I would say collective or almost general, except for four in this country. The reality is that evictions occur in the public housing park. I only bring you some data, and you know them because they are data that we have extracted from the answers that your own department has given us to questions from Euskal Herria Bildu. In 2013, 208 eviction procedures. In 2014, only in the first quarter, 65 procedures, and in 2015, as far as we took from 2015, in the first half of the year, in what we took when we asked that question, 64 evictions. It is true that you, or your predecessor in office, in explaining the reasons for the eviction set different typologies, from who decides not to pay up to those who do not maintain normalized coexistence orders, etc., there are many, but yourself, yes, you, in the 2015 information tells us that in 62.5% of cases of eviction, that is, of those 64 evictions provoked in the middle of 2015, tells us that there are no causes or that there are defaults for undetected causes, probably for general impoverishment. I finish because I have run out of time with one question: probably you and I – and I tell you from affection – will agree on one thing, something that a bearded man said in the criticism of Gotha's program: of each according to his abilities to each according to his needs.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u10	Thank you, Mr. Matute. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u11	I will try to answer you, although I do not think that you have fully adjusted to the exact question you have asked. Persons awarded public housing. The new Housing Act establishes, as you know, an economic benefit that has a subsidiary character, only in case there is no rental housing available. If these people are already satisfied with their need for housing through a public park housing at social cost, it is no longer possible – and the law says so – to have access to an economic benefit, it would be a double aid. But as for what you tell me about the mechanisms of participation of the tenants that you propose, I have to tell you that we are realistic, that we are quantifying what we are talking about. These are 11,000 homes that are currently being managed by professionals in the sector – better than they, no one – precisely so that they can meet efficiently, to adjust community spending as much as possible, because we know that it hurts. We understand that this is the best way to manage the public housing park; it is that it will certainly always be insufficient for our needs, although we will try to make it as much as possible. We will take account of the eviction procedures – we have given them, but we will give them again – both in statistical terms and in terms of the procedure that follows. Finally, the Eplegu and Police Department will accept the order of prices this year to adapt this to the Housing Act. Mr. Matute, you know we do what we can and we can't do it for another day. But we do what we can on all our options.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u12	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Third point in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the United States of Natalia Rojo Solana Sozia Sociialists to the president, concerning the parliamentary order of extreme poverty." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u13	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. Lehendakari. The commitment of this government – in the opinion of the socialists – to those who cannot pay the light and the gas is zero; because zero euros is the amount you have budgeted for so that your government can attend to them and, in spite of you, despite the fact that this government has even denied in this rostrum that no one has that need, that they are helpless, despite the fact that the NGOs attend daily to people in the midst of their inaction, you and your government are obliged by this House to attend to them. Last year we Socialists forced them to include 200,000 euros in this forecast. Then you didn't know how to execute him. By parliamentary mandate, in March we told them to sign an agreement with the Red Cross. You guys postponed it to the end of the year. For this exercise the Socialists did two things: one, double the amount by amendment and facilitate the care procedure by direct subsidy. It's been half the winter, we're already in February. You have since 1 January 400,000 euros to meet people with this need. The question is clear and direct: when will the citizens who need it be able to benefit from the aid provided for in the General Budgets of the Autonomous Community for those who cannot cope with electricity and gas bills?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u14	Thank you, Miss Rojo. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Red, the government's commitment is absolute and total. You say they forced the government. Man, they forced the government through an amendment to the 2015 Budgets, as well as an amendment to the 2016 Budgets, agreed between the Socialist Group and the Basque Nationalist Group with the approval of the Basque Government. As you have said, in 2015 the Department of Employment and Social Policy signed an agreement with the Basque Red Cross for an amount of 200,000 euros to combat energy poverty, and a total of 427 families received aid last year. The item approved in the Budgets for this year 2016 has been 400,000 euros, as you also said. And the government considered that the most operational thing was to maintain the same system, according to what you said that this Parliament also imposed on the government in relation to the Basque Country Red Cross the same system, with the Basque Country Red Cross, and to process the aid through a nominative subsidy to the Red Cross. This new agreement was accepted by the Red Cross, and it is the organization that has pending the submission of the necessary documentation, last requested this Tuesday, to complete the relevant administrative procedure. And as soon as it is available, Mrs Red, the government will proceed to process the file and make the payment of this €400,000 urgently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u16	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u17	Mr Lehendakari: compromise, zero. If the Socialists last year we did not put in 200,000 euros, zero for energy poverty. If we don't put money back into these budgets, zero. And we thought it was best to change the system because you, a convention signed in March, took it to November. And it is true that there are 427 families who have been able to benefit from that help, but you know, like I – and if not, I should know – that the Red Cross could not make 100% of the 200,000 euros effective, because they received so late the money that they could not even spend 100%, and they will have to return to the government the part of the money that they could not spend. An agreement signed in March, brought to reality in November, and you, what you do is tide up the Red Cross. They don't believe in energy poverty. This woman parliamentarian has made 20 initiatives in 2015 on this issue. 10, from you to the relevant advisors, denied the existence of energy poverty; first, as a concept, and second, denying that there were Basques who lived that reality, and derived it all from the ESAs. We explained actively and passively what energy poverty was, how many citizens were left out because they cannot accept ESAs. And you, over and over again, don't. We have achieved through the political commitment of the Socialist Party to put money into that need, which is now a new face of poverty, 200,000 euros. They asked for papers and papers, they asked until the president of Red Cross Spain had to sign a power that came here... , well, dizziness; a bureaucratic procedure, another bureaucratic procedure... And you stay in the well-intentioned speech, which looks very good in the rostrum, but at the time of reality families have a need that they cannot afford. And you say to me, "Is that, how do we force them? Of course we forced them! If the Socialist Party does not exist, there is no departure for energy poverty. And the ESAs weren't created to pay water and gas bills. And now you are taking the whole issue of energy poverty to the amendment of the ESA decree, to bring the debate there and see if that's how time goes. And this woman Member of Parliament speaking to you and the secretary-general of the PSE were with the Red Cross this week, and I know perfectly well what the procedures they have been asked to do. I know perfectly well what they're asking you not to get the money to the Red Cross. And we are in February, and what cannot be done is that while they make public money efforts for all Basque citizens to be able to support the citizens' problem, this ends in November and again Red Cross cannot carry out the payment of those bills that they had to advance from their own funds because you did not make the departure effective. Therefore, compromise zero, obligation all, but what I ask you to do is to comply with the agreement: 400,000 euros already, is a subsidy, not a convention.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u18	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mr. President, to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u19	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs Red, if you, every time you go up to this or come to this rostrum, want to point out to yourself what the nominative subsidy is for what is energy poverty, confusing citizens with whether the Basque Nationalist Party believes or does not believe that there is energy poverty, when the debates we have held in this House have led them to what are all the aid that is being offered by the Department of Employment and Social Policy also for that concept by the Basque Government, then, look, you continue with this dynamic. In any case, the Basque Government's assessment of the agreement signed, the agreement signed and the practical operation of the agreement in the past year has been positive: it has made it possible to alleviate, as I said earlier, a need for many families in Euskadi. And I think this is important, as it is important that the extension of the budget for this year from EUR 200,000 to EUR 400,000 has been agreed between the Socialist Party and the Basque Nationalist Party, with the commitment of this government as well. I wonder, if it is that Red Cross Basque Country knows what the circumstances are in place last year to sign an agreement, what happens so that it does not proceed with the signing of that agreement this year, already under the same conditions. I would like to reiterate that as soon as we have the required documentation... Man, and you, Mrs Red, a member of a party that has had and has public political-institutional responsibilities, know of the administrative procedures, know of the regulations that must be complied with, rigorous. It seems to me that it is enough to tell you that we will process the aid as soon as we receive the documentation with which we have signed the agreement, which is the Basque Country Red Cross. What is really important, however, is that the Basque Government's commitment remains, that the service is being offered with very positive results and that the best proof of this is that the budget allocation has been doubled, yes, and this will allow the number of beneficiary families to be expanded. This is really important, in addition to thinking, which I hope will be shared in the best management of all types of public aid, also in the area of public aid from the Department of Employment and Social Policy for the welfare of Basques and Basques. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos Gómez, a member of the Populagal Society for the President, concerning the composition of the President of the new Spanish Government." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u21	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, Mr. Urkullu. The People's Party has made clear the need to form a political majority in the Spanish Government that is able to guarantee stability and transfer the confidence and security that it needs at this time. This purpose has clashed with personal and partisan interests of other leaders and political forces that clearly subordinate any possibility of first being satisfied with their own political calculations. It seems clear at this point that both Mr Sánchez and Podemos are more motivated by their own personal ambition to be invested as president and the partisan interest in their acronyms than the future of Spain, than institutional stability and political security. And in that scenario, the public position expressed by the Basque Government by your mouth, Mr Lehendakari, is extremely noteworthy. It is shocking, Mr Urkullu, that your commitment to a Spanish Government to ensure stability, as you have publicly stated, is reflected in a government agreement between Mr Sánchez's PSOE and Podemos. Much more shocking when you yourself say you do not know the agenda that PSOE and Podemos plan for Euskadi and when in those same statements it raises doubts about the attitude and responsibility with which both parties face a possible agreement. Do you really believe, Mr Urkullu, that the sum of Sánchez and Podemos is a guarantee of stability? Do you really see in the multichannel statements of leading socialist leaders reasons for believing in stability? When has the personal ambition of a political leader, combined with the blatant partisan interest in a formation, ensured stability? How is it possible to talk about stability when you recognize yourself that it is an unknown proposal that PSOE and Podemos make for Euskadi? How is it possible to combine your commitment to stability with your doubts about the political responsibility you cast over the protagonists of that agreement? We await your answer, Mr Lehendakari.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u22	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u23	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Llanos, stability, yes. And I start by reminding you that stability requires more than the mere majority arithmetic, and the best proof of that is or has been the four years of the Spanish government of the People's Party: they have had an absolute majority and have not generated stability. It does not generate stability the way in which they have faced issues such as LOMCE, labour reform, co-op, or the "law bites", energy policy or the response to social demands, despite the arithmetic majority, Mrs Llanos. Nor does it create stability by breaking bridges with all political parties or closing spaces for institutional collaboration, with the Basque Government or with this Parliament itself, not meeting the requirements of Parliament itself. Look, as for what you say about the bet reflected in a government of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party and We can, I, what I have declared, what I have declared is that with the People's Party that we have known these four years, the agreement is not possible. This is what I have declared. And stability requires an attitude of dialogue, negotiation capacity and willingness to agree. This is what has been missing in the last four years of the People's Party government. All political parties are called to defend the interests of the citizens they represent, and as lehendakari, as lehendakari, I hope that progress can be made in an agreement that respects the plurality and plurinational reality of the State. Such an agreement would generate stability and would be beneficial to the interests of the Basques and, without a doubt, also of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u24	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u25	Mr Lehendakari, you and your party are betting on that PSOE-We can pact, because you are betting on the same thing Mr Sánchez and Mr Iglesias are betting on in Madrid: "First my thing and then, if that, we already talk." You and your government are playing to what is best for Sabin Etxea, to strengthen a government of obvious weakness in Madrid to see if this makes it easier to fit your political agenda. Mr Urkullu, you, as a lehendakari, have a responsibility to look after the interests of the Basques, and it does not seem the best way to do so in favour of a government that is committed to distrust and discredit. "The ruin of Spain is the ruin of Euskadi." Does the phrase ring a bell? I'm sure he is, because he's the president of his party, Mr. Ortuzar. But it seems that in that house, in that of the PNV, always prevails what suits the convent and not what the whole of Basque society needs. Mr Urkullu, if your aim is to bet on a government of weakness in Spain, you, what you are doing is a demise of functions, because with it you are turning your back on the interest of Basques and Basque society. Because the Basques, what they need is a government that guarantees stability, guarantees security and guarantees recognition in the rest of Europe. And you know – because you have acknowledged this – that a hypothetical agreement between PSOE and Podemos is an unknown that is unreasonable, and so you compromise the position of the Basque Government in what you consider to be an unknown. The Basques cannot afford a government born of the sum of personal ambition and party interest, Mr Urkullu. We cannot afford a government that is born out of mutual mistrust that virtually every day recognizes those who will lead the agreement. Its obligation must be to ensure the interests of Basque society, so that our businesses demand our development opportunities, so that our economy needs it. Mr Urkullu, speak not as a member of the Basque Nationalist Party, but as the lehendakari of the Basque Government, and defend the interests of the Basques, of Basque society. And be consistent with that need for stability and political security. You will see how those paths of a stability government lead you to positions that are much more consistent than that of supporting an agreement between Sanchez and Podemos.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u26	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. President, to answer.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u27	Thank you, Mr. President. Look, Mrs Llanos, I remind you: stability is not a guarantee with the arithmetic majority alone. It speaks of the interests of the Basques; I have referred to the disregard of the Spanish Government of the People's Party, led by the People's Party, for this Government and for this Parliament. And it has been your own party that has declined the responsibility of seeking an agreement and forming a new government, Mrs Llanos; your own party. I therefore believe that nothing has changed from the People's Party that we have known in the last four years that we continue to know at this time. I imagine you'll be wondering: why? Why does no one want to share a project with the People's Party today, even though they have won the elections? Look, the People's Party has ruled itself out. What have you done since the day of the general elections to attract or attract political formations, to equip yourself and the state with stability? What have you done for over a month? I hope and wish for a stable government, which is born with a new attitude, radically contrary to what you have maintained. A government that holds bridges, that generates trust, that shares public policies that are most appropriate to the European and global social and economic context. I stand for a government that meets the Basque agenda and gives a constructive 180o turn to its relations with Basque institutions. A government with an open attitude to consensus, which listens and responds to the needs of society and the real economy. Let it contribute to progress in peace and coexistence. Respect the plurinational nature of the State. And the most beneficial thing would be a government that recognizes and respects the political nature of Basque self-government and contributes to its updating, recovering the spirit of pact, Mrs Llanos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u28	Thank you, Mr. President. 9th point on the subject list: "The question is that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto-the congressman of theUPyD team made to the president about the expense of Bilbao Air societ." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u29	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, all of you, counselors, Mr. lehendakari. I ask you if you do not consider that the time has already come for the dissolution of Bilbao Air public society. We think so; given the trajectory and considering the data we have, I believe that the time has indeed come. Let's see what that data is. It is a public society created in 2001 for the promotion of Bilbao airport, which is created by the Basque Nationalist Party or the institutions controlled by the Basque Nationalist Party. It is a public society with only one employee: a former public official of the Basque Nationalist Party. It is a public society that has received €3 million during all these years. It is a public society that has been called into question by the Basque Court of Public Accounts itself. This court, in 2014, and in relation to the 2012 exercise, noted that it did not find the utility of this public society and highlighted its null coordination with AENA. In 2012, the Basque Government and the Bizkaia Provincial Council had to cover a 400,000 euros hole. The López Government, in 2011 and 2012, decided to cancel the subsidy received by this public company, since the company did not justify the expenses or activity. This Government subsequently recovers these subsidies; it again awards subsidies to this public society. We also have some other data, as a result of the good work done over the past few months by the People's Party junta, Mr Ruiz. We know that almost 600,000 euros have been spent throughout this time in advertising and advertising, 375,000 euros would have spent the only employee on travel, over 15,000 euros in private clubs, 114,000 euros in counseling, 7,000 euros in taxi, 17,500 euros in restaurants, 22,500 euros in gift items. Taking all this into account and knowing what the Basque Court of Public Accounts itself said at the time when it pointed out that it did not find the usefulness of this public society, taking into account all the money that has been allocated to this public society and that it has served absolutely nothing, except to keep some friend of the Basque Nationalist Party, I, what I want to ask the Government is whether it intends to take the initiative to proceed with the dissolution of this society. It seems that an initiative has been registered or is going to be registered in this Parliament to ask for such a thing. Obviously, we will support that initiative. We want to know, in short, how the Basque Government justifies the maintenance of this society and whether it will proceed to take the necessary steps to dissolve it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u31	Good morning, ma'am, President, chief of departments, members of the legislature. Mr. Maneiro, let's now see the real picture of society. As you know, it's a society that was created, that started working in 2001. There was a change in the structure of society in 2004, incorporating the City of Erandio, and I remind you that the House of Bilbao, the Basque Government, the Foral Diputation of Bizkaia, the City of Derio, the City of Loiu, the House of Sondika, the House of Zamudio and the House of Erandio are in this distribution. The company participation of the Basque Government is 25%. The objectives of the company are, among other things: to promote the development of new lines and frequencies to improve the connectivity of Bilbao-Bizkaia and the Basque Country; to improve the connectivity of the airport with the environment by expanding its hinterland or area of influence and to promote the establishment of operating centres of new companies in Bilbao. It also disseminates and evaluates the evolution of Bilbao airport and its relevance to the economic development of Bizkaia. The data you're giving, you're giving them in an aggregate and improper way from my point of view. As if it were spending an exercise or presenting it in an aggregate way, the expenditure carried out over 15 years of promotional activity in the development of activities such as, for example, the holding of conventions of decision-making bodies of international airlines, which have subsequently opened new lines or expanded flight frequencies, the development of promotional campaigns spreading the advantages of Bilbao airport in the media, of an expanded hinterland, in accordance with the objectives and interests of that society, the carrying out of promotional campaigns in commercial areas of the geographical environment such as Pamplona, Burgos, Santander, Logroño, Biarritz, in collaboration with associations and public entities... If I go to the average annual expenses of the main concepts in the period 2002-2015, we find that we have in salaries and wages an average annual of 65,000 euros, in advertising 42,000, in telephone expenses 1,600, in travel, representations and expenses related to the promotion of the airport 27.528 and an average subsidy from the Basque Government throughout that period of 74.999 on average, which I think is quite reasonable.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u33	Counselor, it would be reasonable if this society were to serve anything. If, in fact, it is useless, as the Basque Court of Public Accounts itself has said, we are talking about a waste of public money for the benefit of a former public official of the Basque Nationalist Party. And this is the reality, 3 million euros earmarked for all these years, indeed. Thousands of unwarranted euros, one employee, discharge from the Basque Nationalist Party, and everything the Basque Court of Public Accounts has been saying about this entity. Therefore, it is a society created by the Basque Nationalist Party where a person from the Basque Nationalist Party works and receives subsidies from institutions controlled by the Basque Nationalist Party. This, what's his name? This is unacceptable clientelism, using public money again by the Basque Nationalist Party to improve the lives of members of the Basque Nationalist Party. We have to dissolve this as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u35	Mr. Maneiro, you keep giving us your opinions. For Bilbao Air, efficiency in actions and efficiency in spending have been a priority, and this is verified by the independent external audits that have been carried out annually since its establishment in 2001.The audit report carried out by the Basque Court of Public Accounts in 2014 was also unanimously approved. Yes, Mr. Maneiro. In addition, I also want to give you another data to attach also some other date that you do not seem to handle. There is a record of the General Shareholders' Meeting of the Company held on June 22, 2012. June 2012; do you remember who was in charge in June 2012? It reflects the economic situation of society and also the commitment of the Basque Government, of that Basque Government, to continue to support the work of promoting this society, providing the necessary money and subsidies to enable it to continue its promotion efforts. This was done later, by providing the amounts they were entitled to by virtue of their share participation percentage, and from there, by granting the annual subsidies with the average I have told you before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Number of points in theme list: "Interliberation, the members of Laura Garrido Könrr Basque Group made to the president about Christmas activities." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief officers, members of the legislature. A demonstration of the political importance of the government's legislative initiative is that it serves as a reference for measuring the capacity of a government and its ability, with p, than attitude. The calculation of the number of laws passed each year is therefore a usual index for assessing government management, so that when no bills are presented with the pace or intensity demanded by the political groups represented in Parliament, or their content lacks political or social relevance, it is concluded that the Government does not fulfil its mission. The government's legislative initiative thus acquires a fundamental significance. According to these words of Enrique Lucas Murillo, Secretary General at his time as Legal Regime of the Basque Government, President of the Cojua, this government has a rotunda suspense. Gobernu honek – argi dago – ez of the gainditu legealdiaren kudeaketan. And this Government and the lehendakari to which the interpellation is addressed, as the highest responsible of this Government, must clearly be said to have failed to fulfil its word. Lehendakariak ez beer hitza bete. Lehendakariak esan zuen: "We commit ourselves to the submission and adoption of 29 bills during this legislature. I reiterate the government's commitment to fulfill this program of 29 bills." The panorama, Mr Lehendakari, cannot be more desolating. Egoera ezin da momento honetan larriagoa, okerragoa izan. And the figures and the data are objective and do not deceive, there is no possibility of interpretation. To this day, as I said, the balance sheet is absolutely desolating, and this is the following: of those 29 bills that you promised to refer to this Parliament only five have been adopted to this day; of 29, five. Yes, nine more have been approved because the three Budgets and the extra payments have been included, but of those 29, five. This has also been published in the media all these days, and there has been no denial by any member of the Government, including the spokesman for the Basque Government, who gives a weekly press conference. So don't do this to me with your head, because you know the facts are blunt. Five out of 29. Two retirees (draft law on public administration and employment, in the latter Governing Council). And of those who are in the process – because it must be said that of those who are in the process the majority have arrived in this House with a considerable delay – nine have been introduced in the last year and nine bills remain pending. That is the balance sheet, Mr Lehendakari, that is the objective data of the commitments you have made in this House and of the commitments you have fulfilled. This Tuesday we had news of the withdrawal of the legislative calendar of two laws (the employment law and the environment law). Toña – who was here, but is now gone – told us that the initial draft was not properly agreed, that it lacked the necessary ambition – there is also to hear that, there is a correction in every rule – that it is impossible for time to give rise to the processing of that bill..., to the elaboration, rather, for its referral to the Basque Parliament. In other words, Mr Toña gave himself or this government an earshake, or, rather, he gave it to his predecessor, Mr Aburto. What about other laws that are neither expected nor expected, apart from these two laws that you have already renounced: the Basque Police Act, the Cooperatives Act, the Contributions Act, the Cultural Heritage Act, the Documents and Archives Act, the Sports Professions Act, the Grants and Aids Act, the Contributions Act. Another one that you said you could save something from your action and your balance in government action is municipal law, but this law has come to this House with considerable delay and the work is slow. It is true that you have an interest in speeding up these work over the past few weeks, but this is not like when you have a suspense, which can be reprepared for recovery, but it is that you may not arrive or that, if you arrive, you may even continue to have the suspense. I believe that the numerous demands of this Parliament have also been missed, which, in my opinion and with all humility, indicates a clear exercise of pride and little respect for this House. That is why, Mr Lehendakari, I make it clear to you in this rostrum that you have failed to tell the truth when you recently pointed out that we are complying with the word given. You are not fulfilling the word given. When you have trusted government action and one of the main indicators for measuring that government action is government action embodied in legislative activity, you clearly have not fulfilled your commitments or the word given. The president hasn't told the truth. That, we know it's clear and hasn't fulfilled its commitments. I repeat, a clear suspension in a management embodied in legislative production; moreover, with the aggravating that the legislature is ending – five months remain – and, apart from, seeing the news that appears today in some medium of communication, even with the aggravating that these elections can be advanced and that even those five months are reduced. Therefore, you are not going to get to recovery in time and, therefore, I do not know how you will do it, because you will have to repeat the course anyway. Of course, that's the real... You were talking about disregard in the response to the secretary general, Nerea Llanos. This is indeed a real disregard for the representatives of the Basque citizens, the Basque citizens represented in this Parliament. This is certainly not to meet the needs of Basque citizens, when you, in the face of the commitments you made to regulate specific subjects, important specific subjects to emerge from the economic crisis..., there is no law of cooperatives, there is no law of employment. You guys give up those laws. You've been throwing balloons at us, blaming others, doing victimism. Of course, that victimism is to cover up his own inaction of government. It is nothing else because, if you were to do something self-critical and if you were to get to work, of course, I believe that the result of your legislative balance today would be clearly another. I believe that the failure to comply with these commitments is clearly a sign of the inaction of this government. It is an example of the Insecration of this Government to disobey the legislative commitments. And it also gives the impression that we are faced with a blocked government, without initiative, which is guided by the course of events or, rather, that it is committed to the action of other governments. What have you done in matters in which you have competence? If we do not have the law of cooperatives, when we all know the weight of the fabric of the social economy in our economy, nor a law of employment. You are constantly messing with the central government, but here are the 240 laws, some of which are being applied as basic legislation, where you have the possibility of development, but which are not being developed by your own passivity and inaction in legislative production. That is, whoever has legislated in some matters the central government, above you, is saving the ballot, because you have not done the duties. Of course, for the People's Group, the legislative incapacity of this Government is proof that we are before a passive Government, as it said, apathetic and anesthetized, because the calculation of adopted laws is clearly an indicator that serves to assess the management of a Government. I would say more to you, Mr Lehendakari: that this government's desire for legislative production clearly calls into question its own credibility. He told us: "The legislative programme that we are now presenting is therefore in line with the commitment that we have adopted and that we are going to develop in this Parliament". You, why have you told us all these things if you have repeatedly failed them, I would say more, with pre-determination and lightness? Argi dago Gobernu Honen Jarrerak Drink Sinesgarritas una jartzen duela zalantzan. And finally I will tell you, Mr Lehendakari, that this poor balance of legislative activity, and seeing the commitments you have made to Basque society, we believe that it is a clear fraud to all Basque citizens, when you also said "We reiterate, we thus respond with this legislative programme to the commitments with which we present ourselves before society". And, of course, the passivity of this Government corroborates the lack of leadership and ambition in the governance of Euskadi. And that is why we ask you, Mr.Lehendakari: what have you done? What have led this government to relegate legislative action, its government action, and to put it at the back of its priorities?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u38	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In the name of you to answer, Mr. Erkokek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, allow me to begin my speech by expressing my regret because I have not been able to identify exactly what was the ultimate goal of your initiative. I do not mean that I have not understood the literality of his words, I have understood it perfectly, but the reading of the written text of his inquiry gave me a doubt, a doubt that I have not managed to dispel with his current intervention. Because I still have the doubt whether the ultimate objective pursued by the initiative is to emphasize, underline and even praise the fact that the Government does not control the majority of the House, or whether what it wants is simply to launch a more direct invective, stressing or accentuating exclusively the bubble, the incapacity, the lack of skill, the incompetence, the government's disinterest expressed specifically in the field of legislative policy. I see that both are intertwined, but I still doubt if you want to give more importance to the first than the second. Look, if the target is the first, I think there's no questioning, there's no question. I admit from the outset that the government does not actually control the majority of the House. This is so obvious that we must insist on it, for it is certainly enough. Devoting a single minute of debate to deepening this issue has no relevance. We have the support of a 27-strong parliamentary group, whose support and support we very much appreciate, but it is clear that 27 parliamentarians in a Chamber with 75 seats is clearly insufficient to secure the majority, to control the majority and the decisions taken within the House. Obviously, that's the way it is. Nor can we prevent the formation of alternative majorities, as they are often formed in the House, even if at times these major alternatives involve combining water and oil, which are absolutely staggering, nor can we prevent those alternative majorities from acting autonomously and making autonomous decisions, whether or not they like the Government or the group that supports them. This is obvious, it is no longer worth insisting on. As far as the second question is concerned, if what you were really pursuing was to show that the government is only abulistic, indifferent..., you have now used expressions such as that it is knocked out, lack of attitude, inaction in the area of legislative policy..., I, in the end, let me suggest a different reading of things that may perhaps lead you to make an appreciation or to take a picture of reality something different from what you have endeavoured to project here. You, in your question, in the written text of it, state that of the 29 plans committed by the Government only five have been approved by this House. I have also insisted that this is an objective, indisputable fact and that it has no response of any kind. I will not tell you that the data is not real, but it is true that you compare heterogeneous data. You are contrasting what the Government has promised with what this House has done, that is, actions by different subjects. The government cannot compromise, it cannot ensure what the House is going to do, which is a different subject. It can, in any case, respond to what the government does, but not to what the House may not do, and even less in a context of majorities such as the current one. Therefore, confusing the actions of two different subjects, in some way, leads to a confusion that I believe is not entirely loyal when it comes to presenting the balance sheet, neither of a government nor of any organization, whatever type. Look, if you'll excuse me, I can do a different reading of the data. You have pointed out some, but also these that I will bring you are all objectively real. Look, the Government has referred 25 bills to the House in this legislature; therefore, the activity, the legislative production of the Government, has not been null and void. It could have been better, I won't deny it, but it hasn't been null and it's an expression of abulia and total indifference. Twenty-five bills have been referred to the House, of which nine have been passed by the House, nine, two have been withdrawn – a clear demonstration once again of the fact that the Government does not control the majority of the House and it is possible that in the House an alternative majority will take shape that forces it to take decisions of this kind, has withdrawn two bills, and there are 14 bills that are being processed; some of them, out of the 14 that are being processed in the House, have been processed in the House for more than a year. The Emergency Management Bill takes 414 days; municipal law, 445 days; addictions, 378 days; commercial activity, 354 days; third sector, 340 days in the Chamber. In parliamentary regimes, legislative production is the result of collaboration between two bodies (the Government and Parliament). This is always the case, isn't it? The initiative is the responsibility of both the Government and Parliament. The Government exercises this through the bills, which are then necessarily to be approved by the House, which is the only body empowered to dictate legal norms with a law rank – therefore, collaboration is absolutely essential – and, in the case of Parliament, the initiative belongs to the parliamentary groups through their proposals for legislation, which then also go through a governmental procedure, there is a procedure provided for in the House's Rules of Procedure which provides for the intervention of the Government to issue a favourable or contrary approach to the processing of initiatives, which, if it is not, can even go to the extreme of being optional when it comes to initiatives affecting the Budget. There is, therefore, an inevitable collaboration provided for in the legal system for legislative production. The two bodies, the Government and Parliament, intervene, although the last word, the absolute institutional prevalence in legislative production, is inexorably the responsibility of Parliament, which has the last word. In our system more than in any other, because, moreover, here, in the Basque case, the Government lacks the capacity to dictate rules with the rank of law, has no capacity to issue decrees laws; therefore, the superiority of Parliament is inevitable. The Lehendakari's interventions when he appeared here in May 2013 to talk about the legislative programme insisted on this collaborative work between the two institutions, and the expression of this provision, of this attitude of the Government towards Parliament, of respect for Parliament, is the fact that on more than one occasion draft laws have been withdrawn from the legislative programme which, from the moment when a parliamentary group registered a perfectly articulated initiative in the House, the Government withdrew from the legislative timetable the draft law that was contained in it because the Parliament was already going to debate the issue and therefore there was no point in maintaining a commitment to refer a draft law that was already in the House. As you were talking about time, look, let's talk about time, if you want. There is no standard deadline for the processing of a bill, either in the government or in the parliamentary phase. It doesn't exist anywhere. The Government must respect a procedure that is contained in a law adopted by this House, and, if the Government fails to comply with the provisions of that law, of that law adopted by the House, the Law on the Preparation of Provisions of General Character, here it is reconsidered, and rightly so. The Government must therefore respect the provisions of that law, the procedure provided for in that law, and the average calculation is that the processing in the Government, in compliance with the provisions of that law, lasts about one year. I say more or less because the bills are very different; it is not the same a law of eight articles as one of 250. It is not the same a complex law as a simple law. It is not the same a law that affects many sectors that make allegations and that require reports and opinions and contrasts throughout the elaboration process as a simple law that requires none of this. About a year. As far as Parliament is concerned, nothing has been established. There are bills whose handling in the House has taken nine days, if we look at history, and there are bills that have been 500 and 600 days in the House without being passed. There's nothing established. Look, if you want, as a comparison term, we can look at what you've done... You mentioned the central government in the last parliamentary term, with an absolute majority. Look, the year 2015, which is the last of the general legislature, the average length of parliamentary processing of bills in the General Courts has been four months. Four months in two cameras; not in one, but in two cameras. Is that a lot? Is that a little bit? To me, clearly insufficient. Why? Because that indicates that there has been a lot of roll and that there has been little consensus, very little consensus. The most unequivocal example of what I am saying is that there have already been initiatives in the new General Courts aimed at amending not a few of the laws which, on the basis of their absolute majority, exclusively approved by the People's Party, without agreement with anyone. What is the recommended time in this House? Look, here, in this House there's... I have cited some references before. Is this a lot? Is this a little bit? In the bills that have been passed, the five that you cited that have been passed by the House have taken an average of 14 months to process. Is this a lot? Is this a little bit? It is certainly necessary for it to be possible to reach the consensus that these laws require within this House, so that the end of the legislature does not immediately imply the repeal of these laws by the majority who will then comply, if we really want consensus. Therefore, work is being done, working in collaboration, among the bodies called upon to manage the legislative process. And most of them, the government doesn't have it. I'll let you in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u40	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it would have been desirable, not out of respect for this group or this Parliament, but out of respect for this House, and above all, taking into account the word committed, the commitments made by the Lehendakari himself in relation to this issue, which is not a baladi question, and which has been reflected in his successive demonstrations and in the presentation of this calendar, on 24 October 2013, which you lost all of a year, because you were required by the opposition of this government to come forward with this calendar to the Basque Parliament, I say you lost a year... But it would have been advisable, or out of respect – I, at least, would have done so – that the lehendakari himself would have come out, that it would have been the lehendakari who would have given his face here today. Because the sentences I have quoted, Mr Lehendakari, have been yours. What you have said repeatedly in the last speeches we have had on Christmas with Basque society, which has fulfilled the word given, has been you. And here there has been a clear breach of the word given, in the legislative production of his Government and, therefore, in the action of his Government, which has been clearly relegated. I thank you, Mr Erkoreka, or we thank you the whole House, that at least in the facts, which are so clear and so robust, we have not failed to the truth in this House, because that is all we would have missed, and that you have acknowledged that only five of those 29 bills have been passed today. Yes you have then tried..., and you have a certain ability to try to misrepresent the words – not the data, because the data, as I say, are blunt and cannot be denied –, the interpretation of the meaning of the interpellation. I think it is very clear that there were commitments here by the Basque Government in relation to the legislative timetable and that they have not been fulfilled. And don't throw balloons out, don't throw balloons out and don't focus on the responsibility of the groups represented in this Parliament. Because, look, a bill that you referred to this Parliament, the Public Administration Act, was so infumable that you had to withdraw it at the last minute in order not to see a failure when the amendments were going to be discussed here in their entirety. Two bills have been referred as a result of this withdrawal; we will see what happens to them. Employment law. It is that the employment law we are not going to see, and you have acknowledged that you have not done your duties, that you have lacked ambition. Mr. Toña, who is now here, has come to say that even the draft that his predecessor left him was wrong; then he had to apologize, but that's what there is. It's just what Mr. Toña had to find himself in that draft to say what he said. And, look, of the projects that have been referred to this House, nine have been referred over the past year. If you tell me that the government needs a year to prepare the bills, tell me what you have done for three years of government. They will have done other things, but of course not legislative production that has arrived in this Parliament. Therefore, do not blame this Parliament when you, of course, clearly have not done your duty on this issue, and it seems to me that it is very clear that you are trying to blame Madrid or to exercise habitual victimism or to say that you do not have the majority. Well, most people are looking for each other. Of course they're looking! When you wanted... of course, you, the first budget had to withdraw it because they did not have majorities; so, they try to look. Another thing is that they find each other, right? Another thing is that you meet which travel partner and what you put on the table and what you give up to reach those majorities or those agreements. But you will know what you will have to leave behind, what you will have negotiated with the Socialist Party to draw up three budgets. But, well, they've taken out three budgets; three budgets, well, they've been able to take out. Not the first, because they had to withdraw it, along with two other bills. Therefore, do not cast responsibility on this Parliament when you, most of the projects that you have referred to this House have been considerably delayed and nine, I say, in the last year, when you are telling me here that you only need one year to prepare a bill. What have you been doing? Well, that, by doing what they were not supposed to do, and of course, it is clear that this issue has not been on the agenda of their priorities. Look, it's just that in the central government there have been 240 laws, and you had something to know, because you've been there. Yes, yes, 240 laws passed throughout the legislature. And you know what it is? That you, in the end, as a result of that legislation and those reforms, have saved you those reforms that have been undertaken by the central government, because many of those regulations are being applied here because of your inaction and because you are unable to regulate even what you have the competence to do. It is therefore clear that you have been unable, of course, to fulfil your own commitments to citizenship.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u42	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your time is up. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u43	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Garrido, after the second intervention I still doubt the true meaning of the objective of your initiative, because it is true that you have spent most of your time disqualifying the work of the government, but then you have put so much emphasis on the fact that the majority "I already know they don't have them but they are looking for them, they find themselves", just like... He has placed so much emphasis on the majority, that I have again placed myself in doubt. Exactly, what is it: to emphasize and praise that the Government does not have the majority? If this is obvious, if this does not need to be turned around any more. That parliamentary groups can take initiatives to curb the government's legislative action, to prevent initiatives from coming out? You can do it, come on, this is obvious. On this, I do not think it is worth insisting any more, this is so, this is objective and unquestionable. You said to me, "Most people are looking for each other, and you brought the Budgets and then you found the Socialist Party agreement." Man, let's see, most of you don't give it to us, and proof that you don't give it to us is, for example, the fact that the first budget withdrew... yes, it did, after you told us you were willing to support it. But when they saw that the Socialist Party wasn't moving, they said, "Well, I have to retire, too, and I'm not going to support it." I mean, it worked, it looked, it tried, but you played tacticalism – legitimate, I'm not going to criticize it –, you played tacticalism and it wasn't possible. The second budget was approved, but not only with the support of the Socialist Party, which generously showed its willingness to negotiate, agree and seek agreements for the good of the country. No, you also supported it, you also supported it; therefore, no, we are not talking here either that the Socialist Party is the only one involved and so on. Then you tell me... please don't accuse me of misrepresenting the data, that I'm skilled at misrepresenting the data. You're the one who turned them upside down. To compare those approved in the House with those promised by the Government, and not those promised by the Government with those sent by the Government, confusing different actors, therefore, this is to distort the data, surely not with good and loyal intention. That's actually misrepresenting the data. Mine have been another reading of the House's objective and unquestionable reality as well. You told me about the Basque public administration law. Yes, it is true, we brought her to the House, she was in the House for several months without anyone paying her the least attention, during the pre-election period she wanted to provoke a debate..., well, it was true, it was not negotiated. I withdrew it, I withdrew it myself and I committed myself to forwarding at a record time two different bills, all related to that legislative initiative. This was in May. This was in May. In November, both bills were registered in the House, both were registered in the House. We had discussions with all the parliamentary groups, asked for it and had direct talks with EH Bildu and the Socialist Party, explaining to them the contents of the law and realizing the effort we have made to integrate all the partial amendments that had been recorded during the bad law of the Basque public administration. We have spoken to them, we have explained to them, we have found receptiveness on their part and now they know what the foundations of the Government are and they are willing, they are ready to put forward a negotiation with a view to the processing of the bill. We also tried to talk with you, but it was that your interlocutor was very busy, he was overwhelmed with work and he couldn't attend to us for a minute, or half a morning, he didn't have time to attend to us, look. And then, of course, the bill is still in the House, but we have not been able to find an interlocutor. I know that the majority are found; if they are searched, they are found, but sometimes, no matter how much they are searched, they are not found. Of course, my surprise was when the same parliamentary group, yours, did not have time to listen to our explanations with a view to seeking mechanisms, meeting points and common bases with a view to the processing of the law, the same parliamentary group asks me to appear before the relevant commission of the law, the contents of the bill. Of course, the same parliamentary group that did not have time delays the processing of the bill – of course, is that all this has to be said too – delays the processing of the law by asking for an appearance. You know that the rule here is that the deadline for tabling amendments is not open until all appearances are exhausted. I wanted to circumvent the procedure by explaining to the parliamentary groups at bilateral meetings what the contents are and saving us that procedure. The House could have authorised January to table amendments and now we would be in relation to that bill by considering the amendments in the paper, we would now be... but no, there is a pending appearance of me and therefore there are no amendments. Of course, with this cooperation by parliamentary groups such as yours in order to commit the House to taking forward the legislative initiative, because, man, the work is not very easy. I suppose you'll understand that this is also part of the truth. Look, what I want to highlight right now, what I think is important is that we emphasize not what the government has not referred to the House, but what is already in the House. Let us emphasize the 14 bills that are already in the House, please let us co-sponsor ourselves.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u44	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. The seventh point on the theme list: "Interrelation, my brother, of the legislature of the Basque Society of Llanos Gómez, made to the president of a new political State." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning again, Mr. Lehendakari. Mr Erkoreka was talking about doubts, and I'm going to talk about what you like so much, which is indefinition. Because you have not been able, in the question I asked you, to tell me whether you are betting on a PSOE-We can, clearly here, in a parliamentary seat, and if you believe that that government would bring the stability that is necessary, beyond telling me that stability is related to meeting the requirements of this House. If stability is related to meeting the requirements of this House, we have to have your Government, your Government, in addition to suspending in action also suspend in stability, because it does not meet some of the requirements that this House makes it. You have not answered me if, as I told you, your party and your government see well a government in Spain formed by PSOE and Podemos, but, however, in an interview in a media media said that the Spanish government passed through PSOE, Podemos, IU and the nationalists. That was his answer, and I got it in the middle of it. And of course they like that government, because before the stability that that government can bring for Spain and for Euskadi, which is more than dubious – and you also say it is more than dubious – puts forward their partisan interests and their electoral calculations. You guys do do tact. Therefore, because of that tactism is well seen that PSOE-We can binomial for you, Mr. Urkullu. As announced by Mr Sánchez himself, the period of talks aimed at forming that political majority that will allow his investiture, which, on the other hand, is the only thing that interests him, above all...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u46	Plains anderea, mesadez. Consequences of the new political status, that was the question to the previous question. Please, consequences of political status.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u47	Now I'm going, now I'm going. It's related. [[Berber]] In these talks everyone is going to put their conditions, I imagine, and we already know that the Basque Nationalist Party is going to be part of that round of contacts and that it will then be when I raise those political conditions. It is true that by the mouth of some speakers we have already known the substantial part, the fundamental part for you. Joseba Agirretxea, deputy of her party in Madrid, has already made it clear that they will not give free support to any candidate for president of the government and that for this they demand the fulfillment of several commitments: a new status for Euskadi – here goes, Madam President – with the right to decide and bilateral relationship with the state. For your part, you, Mr Lehendakari, in the last general policy debate in this House insisted on the recognition of the Basque nation, the right to decide, and on claiming a new status that would entail a second transition for Euskadi. You said, Mr Urkullu, "Give way to the desire for national freedom in Euskadi." It is clear that for the recognition of these demands a profound transformation of the Constitution would be necessary, although it is also true that, in an exercise of that funambulism to which we are accustomed, here, in the presentation of Self-Government, it came to be said that it is not necessary to modify the Constitution to give way to those national desires of Euskadi. But, clearly, that is not the case and you know it, Mr Urkullu: we must change the territorial model to give way to those desires, we must give in to sovereignty, which now resides in the Spanish people. For some that is a red line, and some have no red line. And you yourself have said that there are no red lines, but at the same time, as I say, they are putting conditions, what Mr Erkoreka called the Basque question the other day, and you here today have said the Basque agenda. He made it clear: for the Basque Government, the main concern to raise with the new government is the Basque issue. And I say to him: the Basque question or the nationalist question? Because that effort you have to always use as a Basque and nationalist binomial... because, Mr Urkullu, there are Basques, believe me, that we do not share your territorial aspirations of secession, but that we are just as Basques as you are. He pointed out his spokesman that it is necessary to adapt the government proposal to the needs and aspirations of Euskadi, and I ask him: to the aspirations of Euskadi or to the aspirations of the Basque Nationalist Party? Why does it not arise that perhaps the first aspiration of the Basques is the consolidation of economic recovery and not self-determination? Because it's not like that for you, is it? You pointed out that above the table must be – and you have said it here today – the recognition of a plurinational state, in which there is not a single nation but several that must be recognized. He also pointed out that it was essential for that new government to address the territorial organization of the State and for that plurinationality to be recognized. Therefore, it seems, Mr Lehendakari, that you are putting a series of lines on the table, I do not know whether red, red or less red, but that of course you are putting them. And, in any case, the time has come to raise such conditions, and it seems to us relevant that this House should know firsthand what the terms with which your Government faces this period of talks are: whether the right to decide, the right to self-determination, secession, your willingness to promote a legal and binding consultation will be on the table in the talks with Mr Sánchez, and whether in those talks you will continue to maintain that your model of relationship with Spain is the same as the United Kingdom maintains with Scotland, or to what extent it will condition the capacity of understanding with the future Government of Spain the "we are Basques, only Basques" that with so much animosity expressed by the president of your party to militancy in the last Alderdi Eguna. Because we understand that these talks, that political initiative which now falls to Mr Sánchez, must be aimed at putting on the table what each of the parties thinks, and therefore you too will have to put on the table what you think. And what you think, what you are going to put on the table is basically, Mr Urkullu, the Basque question or, rather, the nationalist question, which is the core of what you think and what you are interested in, this is the time to start developing and discussing the terms of the relationship that the PNV and its government – and the government you preside over – want to have with the Government of Spain. We understand that respect for national sovereignty, which resides in all the Spaniards, as I said, is incompatible with any kind of referendum or consultation on what is and should be Spain, in which part of the Spaniards decide for all the others. We are confident that the need for agreement will not undermine the content of the agreement and – much more importantly – that the whole of Basque society will not become a pagan of the partisan interests that can influence it. Because it seems clear, Mr Urkullu, that for Mr Sánchez the important thing is not the content of the agreement, the important thing is to reach an agreement, to one, that he is President of the Government. It doesn't matter what way, paying what price, it does the same thing. That's all you're interested in. However, it seems that what interests you is not so much reaching that agreement, but what interests you is the content of that agreement. And within the content of that agreement, what interests you fundamentally, and that is what we want you to make clear here today, because I think this House should know, if what interests you fundamentally is what Mr Erkoreka called the Basque question, or what you said is the Basque agenda. What's that? What is the Basque agenda? Because from what Mr Erkoreka said below, the Basque agenda is not to consolidate economic recovery, the Basque agenda is not to follow the path of job recovery, the Basque agenda is not to deepen the measures that have made Spain and, therefore, Euskadi, go from queue to top. For Mr Erkoreka, for what he said below, the Basque agenda is to put the right of self-determination on the table. That seems to be the important thing, and that's why I'm telling you to make it clear here today. Because you really, if it's not for that chance of getting that longing you've been looking for, do you – I ask you again – believe that Basque society is in favor of a government with Podemos? Or is it you who are in favor of a government with Podemos? We believe, as I said to you, Mr Lehendakari, that it is time for your Government to demonstrate in this Parliament with absolute transparency and clarity its intentions, to publicly show its support, what agreement you would like to have formed in the Government of Spain and the reasons for it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u48	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u49	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Llanos, what a commitment to Podemos; what a commitment to the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party, to Podemos... Look, to answer your question, you're going to allow me to start with three previous observations. First, and as I said in the previous question, the People's Party has ruled itself out. To this day, and although King Philip VI has entrusted the formation of a new government to Pedro Sánchez – and that is what Philip VI has done – it is too early to venture if the talks between political parties will finally yield a positive result. And that's what I'm saying. Second observation: the People's Party government, led by Mariano Rajoy, has for four long years had no sensitivity or predisposition to advance in the Basque self-government. And I remind you: 15 September 2014, last formal meeting with the President of the Spanish Government by the lehendakari; 15 September 2014, where the lehendakari, for the fifth time, in a documented way, left to the President of the Spanish Government the content of what for the lehendakari was the agenda and is the Basque agenda. Response commitment by 31 December 2014. Today, February 5, 2016, St.Agueda, there is no answer. Nor on other fundamental issues for the future of Euskadi, such as peace and coexistence. The Rajoy Government has neglected the institutional requirements, no longer of the lehendakari – 15 September, the last of the five meetings at which I raised the Basque agenda for four years and to which the spokesman of the Government has referred in his public interventions as the Basque agenda – I no longer insist on the lehendakari's requirement, but institutional requirements of the Basque Government, requirements of reports of the Spanish Government for the presentation of Self-Government that has not responded to the Spanish Government; therefore, requirements also of Parliament itself, of the Basque Parliament. Thirdly, there is a demand from Euskadi to move forward in a new framework of political coexistence, Mrs Llanos, a new political status. And the best exponent of this collective challenge is this Parliament's own self-government presentation. We share the view that there is a need for dialogue and negotiation between the Basque political parties, as well as a positive disposition to the pact by the State. And today, in our view, it is necessary to move forward step by step. Political parties represented in the Courts must face with maturity and responsibility the constitution of the new Spanish Government, and this new government, whatever it is, must change its attitude to the demands of Euskadi and open a new period of rapprochement and collaboration. This moment is being described as a new transition, and circumstances confirm it, but I sincerely believe that political attitudes do not correspond to the complexity of the moment and a radical shift in these attitudes is necessary, because we live in a time that demands more respect and dialogue, a time that favors negotiation and the pact. The priority of the Basque Government is that the issues affecting Euskadi be present on the agenda of the next Government of Spain. Topics related to the economy and industry, investment and public services, such as energy or the steel sector. Present topics, yes, but also future topics, such as the development of the Statute, the updating of self-government, or State policy for peace and coexistence. This political moment, then, is regarded as a new political transition, and I think it deserves to be so. But I believe at the same time that political positions which are being are not compatible with the demands of time. It requires a radical change of direction, because we live in the time of treaties, because we live in the time of construction. And we think it's necessary that the themes that touch Euskeka should be in the next Spanish government agenda. These are the subjects of the manufactured politics, in order to grow and defend the strategic economic sector, in order to respect our public policies (such as education and health) which are necessary from Euskaca to transport and competition. And as the President, I repeat, we need the Spanish Government to take a different direction with regard to the beautiful Basque beauties. I'm asking him to help us fill up the government of Guernica and to update our self-portraits. And I require the new government to respect the decisions which this legislature adopts upon the new scope of politics. That's what I ask as far as I'm the president. It requires a complete turn of the Spanish Government in its attitudes and policies for Euskadi. There is also a need for a government that is willing to promote and respect the agreements adopted by this Parliament in order to bring about a new political framework for coexistence. And this Parliament must also set an example in advance. That is why I advocate the need for a process of dialogue and agreement between the political representatives of Euskadi, not only in the Courts, but also the political representatives of Euskadi on the new status of the future. And I argue that it must be a plural, inclusive, inclusive agreement that ensures coexistence. And this was my offer in the general policy debate and I keep it, Mrs Llanos. Since then, the presentation of Self-Government has progressed in its work and the Basque Government has advanced the purpose of collaborating, for example, with Eusko Ikaskuntza in the organization on the next 20 April of international days on self-government. These days that are committed to our programme will allow us to know in depth European, European realities, such as the mechanism of free accession in Bavaria's relationship with the Federal State of Germany, the Swiss confederation models, the relationship status between Flanders and Belgium or the organisation of a legal consultation and agreement following the agreement between the British and Scottish governments. And these international days will also offer the opportunity to present the positions and proposals of the Basque political parties after the work of contrast within the presentation of Self-Government. Mrs Llanos, it is up to this Parliament and the groups that make up it to move forward on the basis of a broad and plural agreement to create a new political framework for coexistence for Euskadi. And the fundamental thing is that the political parties represented here move forward and continue to make the self-government presentation the forum for discussion and shared work. It is not for me, as lehendakari, to set the negotiating positions of the political parties in the form of the new Spanish Government. I am a member of the Basque Nationalist Party, I share your positions on what is the Basque agenda that I have already presented to the President-in-Office, Mr Rajoy, on five occasions, without obtaining any reply, Mrs Llanos. I have argued since the first day that this should be the institutional framework. I have defended the working method that leads to the objective of an inclusive, inclusive pact. I have defended before this Parliament the concept of a foreign nation, reflecting our differentiated identity and the need to base the political future on the recognition of the historical rights of the foreign territories and, on this basis, voluntary accession processes. I have defended bilaterality as a means of mutual recognition, the need to articulate a system of guarantees and respect for the pact. And all this so that from the agreement, from the agreement, Euskadi can continue to grow institutionally, socially, culturally, economically and politically within the European framework. My purpose as a lehendakari is clear and I reiterate it: to help the next Spanish Government, whatever it may be, to work with this Parliament and the Basque Government to be able to give us a new status of self-government and to agree on a new political pact for future coexistence, Mrs Llanos. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u50	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u51	Thank you again, Madam President. Mr Lehendakari, you do not have to talk about the pacts for the Government of Spain. It will not be up to you in this House, because outside this House and in statements, I say to you, it speaks about what that government would be like for you. You say that you have put your model of self-government before the previous government, but, of course, what model? Because we've gone through a lot: we've gone through the Ibarretxe model, we've gone through Scotland, we've gone through Puerto Rico, Canada, Catalonia first and then no longer, through Montenegro, through bilaterality, through the outside nation, and I guess after those days, when there's going to be different, we'll move on to another model. We have gone through different models, which are basically nothing more than a euphemism to put forward the model that the Basque Nationalist Party likes, but which it does not want to put forward because it is not the one for which Basque society bets, which is independence and self-determination. And you say that there has to be a government, but, of course, to put that Basque agenda to you, you yourself have said that Citizens have excluded them and that, of course, Citizens are not by their aspirations. Then he spoke before majorities and numbers, and it's that the numbers are the ones that sing. To form a majority in Spain and which also gives rise to their aspirations we need Podemos. What's going on... I do not know why you here clearly do not say in this House what you do not mind saying in a medium of communication. You don't answer here. But, as I say, out of here, yes, and they seem to be abandoning ambiguity and, above all, abandoning centrality. You guys are shunning for radical positions. I was asking if you think the Basques are in favor of a government in Spain to which Podemos is a member, and you haven't answered me. And I'm telling you, they don't like it. And you, if you put forward the well-being of the Basques, I do not know if you share, because even in that radicality you share the economic model of Podemos, the European model of Podemos, the business model of Podemos, but you do like Podemos. Not the Basques, but you do. Why? Because a government with Podemos, in addition to being a weak government to which you are going to be able to make your secessionist approaches, is also a party that has put on the table, like a red line – although now it looks less red, right? – the right of self-determination. For you, that Socialist Party-We can government is the perfect storm, the perfect storm to be able to channel, make no mistake, not the Basque agenda, because within the Basque agenda, the main concern is employment and economic recovery. For the Basques, some points of that Basque agenda that you raised to Mariano Rajoy, as were the prisoners, are in a place of concern far behind. Basques, independence, do not bet on it, clearly. So it's not the Basque agenda, it's the agenda of your party. And for the agenda of his party, the Basque Nationalist Party, really, a PSOE-We can government is the perfect storm. And you do not mind that after that storm the flood may come, it may come in the form of an economic setback, a setback in employment, a setback in the reforms that the Spanish Government has made to turn back the situation, which you have taken advantage of and which you here have not made any. Because tell me a quiet reform that your government has done here to get the situation right. I'm telling you, it doesn't look bad. Moreover, if you have relied on Podemos to rule in Vitoria! And you see that government well. And I will tell you one thing: after the autonomic elections, in which you will pretend to consider yourself as the vote against Podemos, then, no, because you are deciding for Podemos. And if the numbers give you, just like you rule with Podemos. And I'm going to give you a piece of advice: so that it doesn't happen to you like Mr. Sánchez, if you want to rule with Podemos, go and tell him already the advice he's going to give you, it's not going to be that Mr. Churches come and tell him who wants it to be Podemos and the advice he wants to carry. That's all, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u52	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, what is good for the Basques and what is good for the PNV, what is good for the Basque Government? What a commitment, again, to Podemos and the Socialist Party! And why don't we ask the question, what's wrong with us? What's wrong with us? And what does not suit us, then, I have said clearly, with the People's Party that we have known in the past four years, wrong. With Citizens, who advocate for the suppression of the Concert and with a concept of unity of Spain absolutely re-centralizing, and who already in the campaign of the municipal elections said that with the Basque Nationalist Party or water, what I come to say is: with the People's Party and with Citizens, worse. You referred to the terms I defended in the general policy debate. I insist, whatever the Basque Nationalist Party has to negotiate... And what has the People's Party done this past month and a half to attract all political formations, to the point of declining the proposal of Don Felipe VI for Mariano Rajoy to lead the candidacy for the investiture session? If I tell you again, it is the People's Party that has ruled itself out! How sad it must be for the People's Party that even though the elections have won, it does not attract enough majorities for a government in Spain! And you will have to do your exercise of consciousness too, why this situation occurs, in the People's Party. Look, I defended bilaterality and I continue to do so, and it is the only way to prevent the State from taking unilateral decisions that affect us: non-compliance with the Statute, competitive invasions and re-centralisation. Guarantees of compliance are necessary, and that is bilaterality, that a part of the pact cannot be imposed and the whole of the pact altered. That's what I'm defending over and over again, bilaterality. You talk about the political future, and it seems good to me, but don't forget that there are 24 statutory matters pending transfer to Euskadi and another eight in different degrees of execution. What has the People's Party done in these past four years with an absolute majority? Do not forget that due to competitive conflicts we have been forced to file 11 unconstitutionality appeals, five positive conflicts of jurisdiction before the Constitutional Court and three conflicts before the Dispute-Administrative Court. This is also part of the Basque agenda, Mrs Llanos. And these data show the behaviour of the Spanish Government: the State has avoided the constructive dialogue and the bilateral relationship that I defend. The State prevents the maintenance of two treaties in the United States. We don't have an effective system to ensure the auto-organization. And their mutual confessions, and mutual partiality, bring ablutation of the Covenant of the Common-wealth. And confessions and guarantees are one of the essential elements in the future of the euscal auto-generacy. And that's what I defend. You connect the future of Euscal with the Constitution's reform, and it is evident that the Popular party has the power of veto in Congress and in the Senate in any change in the Spanish Constitution. Don't deceive me, please, when you mention the Constitution's reform. I believe, however, that the dispute of the reform of the Spanish Constitution does not guarantee that the wills of the Basque society will be satisfied. You link, yes, the future of self-government and constitutional reform, and you do so to show that the People's Party has veto power in the courts. You raise the reform of the Constitution, and yet you hide the fact that the People's Party has veto power in the courts. And today I would like to remind you that one way is to develop the first additional provision for the recognition of the historical rights of the outlying territories, but there are more ways and there can be progress in the further development of self-government and in the political construction of Euskadi without reforming the Constitution. And that is what we say from the Lehendakari, the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party. The only thing that is necessary is a determined vision and political will. And, in any case, I would also like to acknowledge that it is up to us to set an example and that the fundamental thing is in this Parliament, in the internal agreement that we have reached in Parliament, and on this agreement, I am convinced that this political time can lead us to move forward in a new transition and in a pact of future political coexistence, also with the Government of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u54	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Xabier Isasi Balanzarka, a member of the EH Collectors, made to the president, about the pollies of the Sociological Prospecations of the President." Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u55	Mr President of the legislature, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the department, good morning. Through social media we learned that January 26th, just as he was doing an incest under Christmas, people were wondering what neighborhoods he'd have banished. Later on, we've learned that in the year 1996, he's been using a series of questions in his study to study the development of society in 2016. "In the following list there are several groups of people. Could you tell me which ones you'd like to have as neighbors? People with criminal records. People of another race. Left-wing extremists, borrokas. People who drink a lot. Right-wing extremists, neo-Nazis. Emotionally unstable people. People of Roma ethnicity." Horretan drink jasotakoa irakurri duet. So we want to ask you the following question: The credibility of the cabinet investigations of the Sophicological Prospects is questionable, what does Mr. President think of using such questions for the presidential purpose? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u56	Thank you, Mr. Isas. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u57	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Isas, I don't have any trouble telling and confessing things as they are, and I'll tell you 20 years ago that the Prosciological Prospation Chief made his first Sociometer, 20 years ago. The same poll that had been made this year, the same thing, was decided to do so that the society evolution of these two decades could be studied, what evolution had passed 20 years ago, and now, after 20 years, asking the same questions. When this kind of evolution research is done, it's very important to keep asking questions as you know, because it's the only way to study the real evolution of society, if you can compare the data that was today 20 years ago. On January 25, he began to work in the country, and the next day several critics were received, on account of a question about social tolerance, and above all some of the indicators that were contained in that question. The cabinet decided to remove this question from the interrogation, and decided to remove it as soon as it was reviewed. And it's like, "Molly got two kind of reviews for a question like this: On the one hand, the study of social tolerance, and, in truth, this kind of question is customary in sociological researches, is at the level of Europe, where 1981 is common in the world. for years, as I say, there are always questions of this kind in the examinations of the values made in Europe, in the State, and in the Eukadin; It was the same question in the state as in Eukadin when the Solicitorate decided to ask this question in the year. And we have received a second kind of criticism, and it has been in a possible answer to the question that we use the term'stremism' with left hand. This choice was used in the year 1996, but it is true that it would be better not to use it now, and so the cabinet decided to remove the whole question, although it was only because you wanted to compare it with the questionnaire that had been 20 years old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u58	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u59	Thank you, Mrs. President. It's true that 20 years ago, I heard about the locals in sociological research. It is true, on the other hand, that the same question may be used as a clear standard of wrong questions during the Society Faculty, and a tool for manipulation of men. Above all, the use of such questions in the world and under such governments, does not remove that they are just and proper from the point of view of methodology, Mr. President. Twenty years later the idea of using the same question without looking at it and giving it up after a citizen reports it doesn't mean it's been right, it means the nature of fun. This is not a secondary matter; it is not only a fault, though in this case it is a mistake. In the sociological investigations and the demoscopic method of acuteness is indispensable to credibility. What they do in others does not value what is to be done there. In general, interest or political views are not compatible with sociological research. Considering the importance of the sociological projections in the current policy, the investigations of the Sociological Prospation must be renewed, Mr. President. It is true that the investigations of the sociological reality are absolutely necessary. Yet it is true that, more than once, sociological researches are used in favor of the interests of the party, and frequently to project definite views of sociological reality. We have reviewed the Solicitor of the President's Sociometer several times, and he has given us more than once to doubt. We have no doubt that any government or political party has to use sociological information. But we also say sociological research in the year after the year's election, that it's impossible to do according to the interest of fun or political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u60	Thank you, Mr. Isas. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u61	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Isas, you mentioned the dismembered nature and perspective of the fun, and, on the other hand, you mentioned questioning or questioning the interests of political parties. I think it's just a trial of intentions that you reflect on there. I explained in the first answer what was the purpose of repeating the same questioning that had been passed 20 years ago. It would have been his own context at the moment, now that he's different, and in that sense I've confessed to the critics. But that doesn't, I think, question the credence of the Sociological Prospice's cabinet. The decision to repeat the study 20 years ago to analyze social evolution is – I believe – justified. The decision to keep the question of social tolerance is justified, or more or less, in what may be other surveys. In fact, all value studies conducted in the world and in Europe since 1981 use this indicator. The Office of Sociological Prospecting received a criticism for the concrete wording of one of the 12 alternatives, yes, offered in the question cited, the same as 20 years ago, which I recall was one of the 65 questions formulated in the questionnaire of this study. Criticism was accepted and a decision was made to withdraw. I believe that the context of this decision has been made known and, in any case, I believe that the issue does not compromise the credibility of the work of the Office for Sociological Exploration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u62	Thank you, Mr. President. Number of points in theme list: "To ask the question, Myria Llanos Gómez Euscal Group members of the Pional Group for the president, Bilbao Air Sociate." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u63	Thank you very much. As mentioned here, Bilbao Air was created in 2001 theoretically for the promotion of Bilbao airport. I am not going to say its components, because it has already been said, but I am going to say that since its constitution it has received 3 million euros in public funds and has had only one worker, its director general, Mr Jon Gangoiti, who has been holding various public positions in his party. And of those 3 million euros, the remuneration received by this worker has been, from 2001 to 2014, 1 million euros. Despite successive injections of public money, in 2012 it had an accumulated deficit of 400,000 euros. After that year, and despite the increased contributions of public money and debt forgiveness by his Government, it continued to have a significant deficit. And it is that this society lives exclusively on public contributions, which have been decreasing, but that decrease has not been accompanied by a decrease in expenditure. Thus, in 2012 there was a salary increase of 82,000 to 84,000 euros per year for its only worker. It should be added that in the same year, despite lower contributions, travel and representation expenditure increased by 50 per cent. The expenses, we have already said here what they were, and, of course, I want to know whether it seems to you that these expenses are justified and relate to the activity carried out by this society. In 2011 and 2012, the Basque Government cancelled its grant because it did not justify expenditure or activity. However, the return of the Basque Nationalist Party to the government means the return of the subsidy; what we do not know is whether the justification has returned. As has been said here, the Court of Auditors of the Basque Country analyses the activity of the company and concludes that it is not possible to measure its effectiveness in improving airport management. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Lehendakari: as I was saying, is there any justification for these expenses? Are they related to the object of society? Why are all invitations to tender always carried out directly, despite the company's internal instructions to ensure the principles of publicity, competition and transparency? What are really the fruits of this society? Is it necessary to have the same, when its activity already performs AENA? And finally, Mr. lehendakari, do you think that contributions to it should continue?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u64	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In the name of you to answer, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u65	Good morning, again. There are some issues that I am, in fact, referring to from the previous speech on this subject, but there are some that I will even repeat, because I think it is relevant. Independent external audits have been carried out on an annual basis and have been carried out since the constitution in 2001. The audit report, as I said before, which was carried out by the Basque Court of Public Accounts in 2014, was unanimously approved. Annual accounts, annual accounts and also management plans are forwarded to shareholders, and the justifications for the grants are made. In recent years we have contributed, both in 2014 and 2013..., 2014, 2015 and so it is also foreseen in the General Budgets, in the Government Budgets, a contribution for our part of 75,000 euros, resuming the average we were working on from the beginning of society, as I have also commented before. Indeed, as you say, in the years 2011 and 2012 there was a lack of input from the Basque Government and, as I have also said before, this issue created a problem, created a problem of financial and financial imbalance in society, and was dealt with at the shareholders' meeting on 22 June 2012. And that is where it was agreed to resolve that delicate economic situation that had occurred due to lack of input and the commitment of the Basque Government to continue to support the work of promoting this society. From there, what was done is to transform the anonymous society into a society of limited liability, reducing social capital, restoring the balance between capital and wealth, diminished as a result of losses and thus avoiding new capital contributions, maintaining the participation percentage similar to the previous one. From there we have continued to work normally, and in the management plans of the society that are being presented annually, as well as in the statement of accounts, we are responding to the information needs of the partners. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u66	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u67	Mrs. Oregi, the truth is that you are touched by some paperwork... because, if, in order to justify that a poor manager like Mr. Arruabarrena remains in his position at the head of the Metro, you allude to the punctuality of it, since no explanation is pilgrim. Because tell me that the audit report or that the contributions are decided by the shareholders' board, when at the shareholders' board there are only people of the Basque Nationalist Party, so, man, I tell you, total pilgrim. Indeed, it is a doubt whether the reason for the creation of this society was to put the Txapela to the promotion of the airport, not to the management, because you have no competence, or to place a former public official of the Basque Nationalist Party. Of course, if it was the second, it was totally achieved. If it was the first target, no, not at all. Because the fruits have nothing to do with us saying nothing, says the Court of Auditors itself. And they have not responded to any of those expenses that are made, nor what relationship they have with the company: why they are spent 3,500 euros on a single invoice in a restaurant in Bilbao, another 3,500 euros in another restaurant, why they are spent 7,000 euros always on the same taxi driver, who will have to see the reasons to choose that taxi driver. But in any case, what I'm saying is it's a luxury to have this society. How is it possible to allocate 3 million public money in a society whose expenditure is unclear and whose profitability is not clear? How is it possible that 3 million public money is spent on this society, and yet then there is no money for ESAs, there is no money for conciliation, there is no money for entrepreneurship, there is no money for employment plans? We believe that they make no sense, Mrs Oregi, no sense to continue with this society. And that is why, since you are unwilling and want to continue with the government, from here I am announcing that we are going to put forward a non-law proposal so that, by urging the government and in favour of this stability – I suppose you will listen to it – this society ceases to make sense and disappears. Nothing more and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u68	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u69	Mrs Llanos, the representation in society, as I have explained before to Mr Maneiro also, is that which is, it is Bilbao Ganbera, Basque Government, the Foral Diputation of Bizkaia, municipalities of Derio, Loiu, Sondika, Zamudio, Erandio; and the political colors that the representatives have will be those who have decided the citizens in each of these places, in each of these institutions. As for the need or not to have a promotional society, I will tell you that I don't know if you remember, but there is another, too, and not just in our environment. It is quite common that there are promotional companies that defend and support airports that are considered key factors in the economy and competition to capture traffic, industry, etc. That is an issue that is on the agenda and that is also on the agenda elsewhere. I can talk to you, for example, about Spain Zar in Zaragoza or VIA in Vitoria, or about the management and promotion of Barcelona airport, or we can also talk about some other society that has recently formed. We therefore believe that the work being done by advocacy societies in the current scenario is useful and necessary. Now, as you also know, our airport model is not the one that defends the Ministry of Development and the government of Mr. Mariano Rajoy. Ours is an airport, three terminals, Basque management.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. Forth point on the theme list: "I'm asking the president about the claims of the victims of terrorism by the Congress of the Basque Barroja Popula team." Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u71	Good morning. Thank you, President. Lehendakari, counselors, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. The family of Jesús Velasco Zuazola, head of Minones de Álava, who was killed by ETA on 10 January 1980 in Vitoria, declined to pay tribute to the city council recently organized in the framework of the actions of the Secretariat of Peace and Co-existence of the Basque Government, that is, within the framework of what you personally lead. The daughters of Commander Velasco explained prior to the celebration of the tribute ceremony that they understood that those affected by terrorism must have their own recognition and deserved an express and strict condemnation of ETA by all parties and institutions, without their actions being diluted in a magma of violence that they intend to make all guilty or all innocent. Everything leads us to see from our point of view a regrettable lack of sensitivity on the part of the Basque Government, and I therefore ask Mr Lehendakari to answer the following question: how do you value this attitude? What is the reason why the Basque Government has not done everything possible to recognize the victims of ETA as they deserve? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u72	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, I have supported each and every one of Parliament's pronouncements against the violence of ETA and in favour of the memory of the victims. In this rostrum I have always recognized the victims of terrorism and respected their memory. The Basque Government has a firm commitment to the care and recognition of the victims of ETA, a demonstrated commitment to facts. I will only refer to last year, 2015: 20 February, declaration of institutional recognition of Fernando Buesa and José Ramón Recalde, councillors of the Basque Government murdered by ETA. 4 June: I met personally with all the associations of victims of terrorism throughout the State. On day 5 we celebrated a day on victims and society that served as an act of recognition to the victims of terrorism, an act grateful and appreciated by the victims and associations. We have collaborated with the Spanish Government in the creation of the Memorial Centre for Victims of Terrorism. We participated in the event I don't know whether to start works of the center or to place plaque, later removed, in Gasteiz. We have participated in the launch of his patronage in Madrid, presided over by Don Felipe VI. 4 September: I met with 130 mayors of Basque municipalities with people killed to encourage the development of memory policies. September 22nd: We approve the Batera compromise, which states "The end of ETA cannot assume to pass page without explicit criticism of what happened. Memory policies imply recognizing that any form of violence or terrorism – and therefore ETA violence and terrorism – was an injustice." We have participated in all the acts of recognition of victims to whom we have been invited. We have maintained a relationship with each and every one of the families of victims killed by ETA in a personalized way. And these are the facts with which the Basque Government demonstrates that it is doing everything possible to recognize the victims of ETA as they deserve. The facts of last year, 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u74	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u75	But unfortunately, Mr Lehendakari, you are not sincere, because, as the daughters of Velasco said, following the seemingly laudable gesture of honoring the memory of the victims of terrorism in the city of Vitoria hides the intention of diluting ETA's terrible criminal responsibility in a magma of violence put on the same plane. That's what Velasco's daughters said. And they also said that in the nomenclature used by the Secretariat of Peace and Coexistence of the Basque Government in its municipal portraits and violations of the right to life in the Basque case, the real meaning of the word violation is transgression, breach, violation of a law or precept, and also harm and injury, while the murder is defined as the heinous and premeditated crime. And the daughters of the head of Miñones de Álava asked him: Why does the Basque Government twist the meaning of the words? Why is it trying to minimize the brutal reality of the hundreds of murders, the coercion, the fear, the lack of freedom that we Basques have suffered because of ETA terrorism and the shame we should feel? Why do they strive to produce reports and perform acts to equal the military, police and civilian guards that so many lives have given and so courageously fought terrorism with the abject criminals that have savagely broken our coexistence and our freedom? Why do they devote so many resources to disguise or conceal the truth? What final scenario do you intend to build? These are the questions to which you have to answer, Mr.Lehendakari, the questions asked by the daughters (Ana, Begoña, Inés, Paloma Velasco Vidal-Abarca). Those are the ones who have to answer in the first place, because, in fact, they are right. They also said in their reference: "We find it perverse and offensive to attempt to equate organized crime with the aggravation of its political intent with any other type of violent death. We believe that the victims of ETA deserve for themselves, without being defumed, the grateful recognition of the whole society and that no alibis should be provided that can provide a justification for the existence of ETA." That is to say, these are the references made by the victims of terrorism today to a certain part of the management of their Government in this area. Because this is all part of the Basque Government's initiative. That is, Mr Lehendakari, something important fails in these acts, and this is the road map of your Peace and Co-existence Plan. There are previous tasks that you have not done. Lehendakari, I think you're insensitive and untrue. There is no ethical authenticity in the actions of his Government, there is a uniforming pragmatism of violence. You spoke before generating confidence; therefore, fails to generate confidence, as you have said before. What are you going to do? How do you respond to Commander Velasco's daughters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u76	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u77	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr Barrio, in addition to ratifying me in everything from the first to the last of the words in the first intervention, I will tell you that "the violence of ETA requires a proper and specific assessment, not diluted or compensated by the existence of other forms of terrorism or violence". This is said dozens of times by the Government and written in the Peace Plan. This Government is committed to the victims. I'm not going to argue publicly with the victims. I deeply respect the feeling that each of the victims has. I personally recognized the victims that we should have reacted sooner and done better. It was a self-criticism made to open a new stage, and so it was understood. You come here and say that I am not sincere, that I am not sensitive, that this government is insensitive, that we have no ethical authenticity. Look, Mr. Barrio, the use of the victims of terrorism as a bold weapon against the Government is out of time and place. I insist, it is time to close the old stage of political confrontation. Time for a new phase that consolidates peace and coexistence. We are managing it with our participation in forums that are also alien to this Government and that are driven by the Spanish Government, and even presided over by the head of State. Time to turn the memory of the victims into a point of social encounter, also – I hope – objective of the Memorial Center of Victims. In any case, despite his doubts about our sincerity or our ethical integrity, I show him that we will continue to do our utmost to achieve this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u78	Thank you, Mr. President. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "Interpelation, by Daniel Maezz Perez EH Collectors, to the Chief of Economics of EH, and the Precinct Department of Companity, in the Euscadic Energy Strategy." Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u79	Thank you very much, Madame the President of the legislature. Good morning, everyone. Good morning to Mr. President and the chief physician. At the end of the last year, we learned from the press that the government wants to set up a new emergency strategy. He wants to make a new one or a renewal of what's up to now. We don't know very well what he really wants. In other words, that's why we make this interference. Up to now, until 20 years ago, there was a radical strategy that had been supported by the previous government. And now we want to make a new strategy until the year 2025. We want to know why, first of all, this change is made; why, when there is force, there is a strategy, now a new one, and the time of five years continues. From that point on, we want to know also whose involvement this infernal strategy. We know that the procedure as a whole hasn't ended, but it's important to know what kind of cause this strategy is doing with society. For instance, we may suppose that he is talking to certain companies, as the Government often does, with Iberdor or Petronor enpres. Moreover, as we see how important fossil fuels are to this government and this new strategy, it is probable that it has been related to them. But is he counting on other operators (for example, with consumers), consumers who receive the consequences of the modern Egyptian model? There are associations of consumers, and I think it would be interesting to know what consequences are due to their modern neurotic model and what to change. Are they getting involved? A number of new co-operative powers have also arisen in commercialization and production. Is he telling about them, too, or is he going to tell them about this new energy strategy? A platform on the side of a new neurotic model is formed in the Basque scale. Is he going to tell about them? Or in college there are so many experts on this subject that I'm not just talking about Orkestra. I know you've often told it with the orchestra, but I'm not just talking about college teams who work for fossil fuel patterns. I'm talking about college experts who proclaim alternative patterns. So it's important to know who's counting on, or who's counting on, when he's doing a kind of strategy like this. We have had occasion to examine the project or sketch that hung up in the open, and we must say that there are not many innovations for us in this project, that we do not see much news of the current strategy, on the one hand, because we see this strategy admits of taking into other places the disputes about our own neurotic model, not here, but the most important resolutions are taken in another place; and we are not merely physical, I mean Madri, but often so many of them have been determined in the least dispersal of my firms. And this strategy does not question, it does not question the pattern that is now in question. Nay, we have drawn a second conclusion in reading: We believe, moreover, that this strategy shares or agrees with this standard, that it does not doubt and share those decisions which are taken in other places, and this for us has three right conclusions: on the one hand, because it makes it clear that this strategy admits that at the same time we do not fulfil the ends which Europe imposes on us in the sphere of the consumption and production of the most recent energy. And that's how you take it. It's a serious thing for us to accept that. And indirectly, two other consequences, which are connected with this first conclusion, with not having a firm wager on the side of the most important mines; and that the severe consequences of our industry, and the severe consequences of our fellow-citizens, are the results of the same example which is now at hand. In the reorganized energy area, we have stated that the consequences of this strategy for us are highlighted. In short, what Europe has established is clear that 20% of the entire energy consumption of 20 years must be retractible or reasperitive, that we will not fulfil it. But not in 2020, not even in 2025. In the press, I thought when I read that your goal was to achieve this new strategy in 2025, to achieve that goal of 20%, but I've read the strategy that your goal is 16 percent, 16 percent of the total energy consumption. I repeat, it was supposed to be 20% of 20 percent and you say that 2025 percent is gonna be 16 percent. If we take nothing from it, what is the consequence of the electricity or electricity production: In 2025, only 11% of the produced light will be the retractable strategy, that is to say, 89% will have its origin in fossil fuels. It's really something to be surprised at. And this has another effect: you will admit that we will not fulfil the measures necessary to the climate change. I don't know if the performance you're following is about this subject, I know it's a transversal subject, and that's often supposed to be a case for nobody to listen to, but the experts say we're going to a economy without carbon. Do you think we're going to a terminalless economy 10 years from now when it's only about 11% of our power generator production? I think it's impossible. Why does that happen? Because we do not claim a personal, degenerational, and disorganised example, because we accept and accept the measures taken in the Spanish State. And this has consequences in the area of the renewing energy, as I have said, but there are others. Unfortunately, we have seen another result in the last few weeks, and it is also in our industry to admit of the results in the Spanish State, and it is a question of peatage, for instance, of what kind of companies our companies, who pay for their access to the nets of light, pay for our manufactures. And see the situation: four cycles have been combined in the Euscal Autonomia Er member (three central, but four groups). There's a Rhyxan, there's no singerbian, and there's not a combined cycle in Castile and Leon. Our companies pay for it from Castile and Leon, or from the Kantian, or from 75% of the pesetas paid at Errioxa, at least this data was yours before the electric reform. We have fourrmal Plants here, but electricity is more expensive for our companies. That pattern is wrong. That pattern is corrupt. The solution is not to go to Madrid and say you have to cut the pedals. That's what P.N.V. voted for the electric reform and said in exchange that the pedals would decrease. No, it is another example to establish, that the energy here produced should be consistent and cheap as well as possible. But, of course, if we admit that we must make decisions in Madrid and that it must be a centralized model, same for all of us, such consequences come here too. On the second round, when you hear your answer, we shall have occasion to speak of other consequences, for instance, of the consequences of this example to the simple citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u80	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u81	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chief of departments and congressmen. Well, Mr. Mazeztu, you know, I think you all know that Eukacan energy strategy does the energy policy and the length of time in the country is in 10 years. So the strategy of the day, known as 3E20 today, was up for 20 years. They were one of the most important objects in the sphere of energy, the advantage of the retal energy, the guarantee and competitive equipment to maintain and to guarantee technological development, and to promote the furrows of labour. Thus, in this sense, we are still quite compatible with the legislation which proceeds from Europe, with the ends which they mark, and so on. However, as I said at other times, you yourself mentioned the ERABIA, we're repeating this strategy, in a way, a new social situation, a new aspect of sectors, changes of regulations, everything mentioned in COP 21. And all the progress that the technology has given. You ask me why, because the Industrial Committee of this Parliament had told us about it that way, because he had promised us that way. So you sometimes say that we do not do what the law mentions, and now you ask me why we do it. This commission recommended review at the end of the year 2014, by various examinations (profits, economics, budgets), and recommends us to start a different stage-station. So 2025 of this is where you mark the strategy. Why until the 25th? Because if we had to start in the 14th year, it was 10-year-old, because it was 15-25, that's why 2025 strategy. And I will not determine the goals proposed, because, as you have mentioned, he is currently consulting public, so that after a year's preparation he is publicly in public, and in this phase of course all examinations and suggestions will be examined and decided whether he approves or not. We've been talking to different agents, as they always do, and, of course, at this stage, we're here to take care of all of them, and I'm sure some of them will be taken and others will enter the strategy, and if we see that they're not perfectly adequate, they'll be justified, even if they're refused. So we won't leave them both and the others, and we'll all count on them. Eta beasts gauza bat, gaur ez didazu aipatu beasts hainbat kasutan aipatzen didazuna. And I do want to talk today about a requirement that you comment on many occasions, which is that of strategic environmental assessment. This time it must be because we have prepared it, because we have submitted the strategy in this case to that strategic environmental assessment; because, despite not being a required requirement, in this case we considered it important that we initiate that process and that this strategic plan, that this strategy 3E2025 was also equipped with that strategic environmental assessment. You talk to me about renewables and you talk to me about what is happening right now, and I want, before I go into the specific aspect of renewables, to talk about two aspects that I think you have mixed. When you spoke to me that combined cycles and combined cycles produce, in a certain sense, our mentalities, I don't know, but that's what you mean, in a way, and that's not the way it is, and I want to explain it to you: our pedals are more expensive at the moment because our net is different because it's different from the others in the state, and instead of being 25 K.W., it's from 30, so it's been applied to different suits. And what we had examined in Madrid was, because the electric network isn't an island at this moment, though I agree with what you said (though I agree with what you said), push it closer and closer, push it, and consume it in it, better, I agree), In this case, we are connected with the French state, Spain, and we're not an island. And, by chance, our net is different in our own country, and what we said was that our populations, and even the corporations, paid different wages and that wasn't right, and that's what we worked for. But it has nothing to do with reconstructive energy or combination cycles, but what kind of a network the Iberdronak built in its own time. And that's not good, it's not bad, it's different, and that's why we consider a company who's in Erriox or is at the Singari because it's a different network that doesn't have a different outfit, and that's what we're fighting where it should be. You've mentioned another thing, since the retractable energy is 11%, that all the others are fossils, and that's not true either: there are intermediates between the reassembled energy and the fossils, and I would like to mention that too. Hori esanda, you said that, of course, when the 20% target for renewable energy in Europe is set for 2020, we cannot transfer it directly to Euskadi because, first of all, that target is set for the Member State concerned when it is set for 2020 and we must take into account the fact that each of the states is part of it, and if we had to apply it to Euskadi we would have to start from where we are. It is clear that I have said that I would like to reach 20% in 2025. Being realistic and analyzing what the situation is, the production we have right now in Euskadi, where we can get to in renewable energy and what is the forecast we make of possible start-ups of new renewable energy generating plants, we consider that we can hardly reach beyond 16%. That doesn't mean we're not going to work to make that a reality. Moreover, as a result of the fact that the Spanish State has launched an energy reform that has done us a lot of damage in terms of the production of renewable energy, we are currently in a situation where legal uncertainty makes no one want to establish a renewable energy plant. But I will go further and reproduce another debate that you and I also have in this House on more than one occasion: if we do not have more production of renewable energy, in this case, and renewable energy can be, if we introduce hydropower, that I think we do, of course, in Euskadi many very powerful water jumps we do not have, we take advantage of the few that we have, it is true, photovoltaic energy, really, the occupation that we would have to have is so high that we cannot afford to put as much as we would like and, of course, the efficiency of these systems is still not enough; therefore, how little there is, is used and we will continue to work. And what we have, of course, is the biomass, with which we are also working, but production and generation is not enough, and what would lead us to have a sufficiency in generation, of course, would be the wind, in which, if we agree and we get that PTS that stayed, or we make another and we set it in motion, of course, sure that in this House we will agree, and we will not reach 20, we will also get further than 20, we reach 25 or 30%, but at the moment that is impossible. But I don't stand there: it's not just a generation. What we are talking about is that 25% of the energy we consume comes from renewables. Since we are united with France and the Spanish State, we know the energy of France from where it comes, then it is difficult to obtain that, if we do not produce, if we do not generate our own energy and we are interconnected to Europe through the French State, whose highest percentage is, of course, nuclear, and the Spanish State, which hardly reaches that 20%, because, if we are realistic, we are going to work on that 16%, but I do not refuse to raise it – I insist – where we have to go, which I believe is a reality. In any case, with all these restrictions, I will tell you that this Government, despite these restrictions, has, in the last four years, launched 2,410 new small renewable energy plants, promoting 40 million euros of investment, 1,800 biomass and 210 thermal solar, 190 geothermal, 170 photovoltaic and 40 wind power plants. And here we are going to continue, since, as long as there is no such legal certainty, at the moment we must not only be united with the Spanish State, but also with Europe, of course, we must continue to work with them. As much as we have another model, we still have to be united with Europe and the Spanish State. But that does not prevent us from continuing to work for renewable energy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u83	Thank you, Mr. President. I have to say that I think this debate is necessary. We are talking about an area that is strategic for any economy, but for any country project as well, as is the energy field. That is why we would like these debates not only to be conducted through an inquiry, but also when an energy strategy is being prepared, in this case for the Basque Autonomous Community, to be brought to this House and discussed with the rest of the groups and also to take measures or at least try to reach as much consensus as possible on the measures to be taken in the long term. Because, if not, then things happen like it happened in your day with the wind PTS, which, if we ever get a chance, we'll discuss as well. Of course we are in favour of wind energy, what we are not in favour of illegally implementing wind energy as it was of that PTS. And not because Euskal Herria Bildu says it: the Basque Government itself in its day realized that that sectoral territorial plan did not have the environmental permits or environmental assessments it had to have had and that is why it withdrew it. The idea I wanted to underline is that it is often necessary to bring into this House and discuss with the groups, in addition to the social actors, before unilaterally adopting strategies as important as the energy strategy for a country. Well, you come to say that you can't do more: "Being realistic, you can't get more than 16% of total renewable consumption by 2015." I do not agree: it is not a question of realism, it is a question of interest and political bet. I'll give you some examples. In Germany, 6 % of total electricity consumption in 2013 was photovoltaic. Today, in the Basque Autonomous Community it is 0.2. Germany, Araba, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa; I don't think it makes any more sun in Germany than here; 6%, 0.2. It's political interest, it's a political bet. We read your energy strategy and the photovoltaic bet is zero. You say – and you will tell me, surely – that it is very difficult to make a bet for renewables by seeing what is the current legal framework that the Spanish State has imposed. And what are you doing before that legal framework? Are you trying to find the tools so you can bypass that legal framework? Look, Murcia, which I do not think is the paradigm of independence or sovereignism, has made a regulation so that it can circumvent the rules against the self-consumption of the Spanish state. That's what Murcia did. If Murcia does, it can be done here too. Of course, we will then enter into a debate, as we have entered into other matters, such as fracking, competition and the Spanish State. But it can be done, there are tools. Once again, it is political interest, which we see is not there. It is not realism, it is a lack of political bet on renewable energies. Firstly, because there has been a gas bet in this country, which is a fossil fuel, and secondly because we do not want to question that centralized state model. You don't want to question yourself. It is accepted that it has devastating consequences for our industry, devastating to Basque families and households, but it is not called into question, nothing is done to overcome it. Another fact I will give you, which I have not been able to give you in the first round: the energy bill for Basque households, in the last six years, has risen by 59% – EVE data. In a period of crisis, when the purchasing power of these families has fallen dramatically in some cases, a fundamental good such as energy for people's well-being has increased by 59%. Well, we have an energy strategy that, of 107 folios that I think it has, devotes five lines to talking about energy poverty; not one concrete measure, five lines. We have before been able to hear a debate on this subject. Energy poverty is not only a topic of poverty that exists in society. It is totally attached to that data that I have just given you, that in the last five years the energy bill for families has risen by 59%. That is to say, it is not only a matter of social aid, of social response – which will also have to be given, of course – but it is an energy model problem and we are doing nothing to change that energy model. That's why I'm telling you – and I've wanted to tell you before – that we generate energy here, but we pay a much more expensive energy bill than the others around. And that's not solved by negotiating tolls, it's solved by negotiating a new energy model.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u84	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u85	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr Maeztu, despite agreeing with many of the things that you have been able to say in this case, there is one thing that really must not be mixed: the energy model is one thing and the costs that are paid, by establishing a regulation on that energy model, are something else quite different. Forgive me, they are two really different things: one can have an absolutely renewable energy model and today we could have an energy model here 100% renewable, but if the regulation that we set ourselves, suppose we set a regulation that is just as bad as that of the Spanish state or worse, we would still pay a lot. The model has nothing to do with regulation, forgive me, it's two different things. They are two elements that affect the system, but they are different. From there, he talks to me about the interest of photovoltaics and compares Euskadi with Germany. I've never told you we have no sun. I have told you that we do not have enough surface to be able to use it in a dimension as it can now have Germany. Can we afford it? Have we decided that that is so, that much of the soil we have, for example, in Álava, which would be great, absolutely flat, we are going to dedicate it to photovoltaics? It's a decision we have to make. On roofs, you tell me. Yes, there are certain aspects that we are trying to do. And you know perfectly well, moreover, that in the Energy Sustainability Decree we have recently adopted, that is one of the aspects on which it is concerned, but it is not enough to reach that 6%. It's not enough. There is no lack of political will, there are many other aspects to consider. And do not compare me, please, the possibility of regulating or trying to bypass the self-consumption decree with trying to bypass a regulation and a law and strategy on tolls or on what is the price of energy. It's two things, really, of a different dimension. And, I insist, we're also connected because we're not an island. Maybe if we were an island, we'd have a different capacity, but we're not. And, as 93% of the energy we consume we have to import, 93%, we are closely related to neighbouring states, whether we want it or not. And those neighboring states not only have regulations, but also have a kind of power generation that impacts on us. Now, the energy model we are putting on is clear: on the one hand, renewable energy, yes, but it is not enough. Then, do we work for energy efficiency, which is going to lower the cost of energy by perhaps as important as having renewable energy, a quantity of renewable generation that we cannot afford right now? To work, of course, continuing with the small renewable energy, with the small renewable generation that we are promoting, which may not be self-consumption, but in part, if we make an association of a series of houses, of a series of..., I will not reach a specific municipality, but yes a series of public buildings, we can reach that kind of self-consumption that allows us to continue working and deepening in that policy. And those are the things we have to keep doing. In addition to – and I'm glad to hear from you –... not the wind energy PTS, which we have perhaps already crushed enough; if we are, of course, able to establish not only a strategy, but how to carry out the implementation of certain renewable energies, be they photovoltaic, be they wind, on land or at sea, can we allow ourselves to start working on these aspects? Of course, the Government would be happy to be able to work on them and analyse them. If it is the will of all who are here – and I think it can be –, of course, it will not be for us that we do not do it. And if we can get further away from where we are at this time, besides those small generations that we are pushing through what it says, of course, we will do it and we can then incorporate it into the implementation of that strategy. The Government's will is absolute, but we have to work knowing the conditions under which we move. Having the contour conditions we have, we have to do the best we can, yes, but somehow submit to working with those contour conditions. If we are able to sort them out at some point or improve them, we will also do so, even if we have to go to Madrid or we have to go to Europe, where we need it, knowing what our limitations are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. fourteen points in theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Natalia Rojo Sozana Sozia Sozia Sozialists to the head of economics and contestations, was accepted in October 2015 about the royal decree of self-consumption." Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u87	Thank you, President. Good morning again, everyone. Madam Counselor. Well, this question is a little bit more than you've been discussing with Mr. Maeztu in the previous inquiry. When the Socialist Group presents this initiative, the context is a non-concrete one. There is a point of agreement between all political groups, except the People's Party, and all entities working in the field of the environment to request the repeal of the Royal Decree of Self-Consumption adopted in October 2015. But at this point in time when this point of political and social agreement exists around this real decree and the consequences that, as you said in your speech right now, it has had for renewable companies – for some more than for others, but for the collective in general – the war of relations between large companies, including Iberdrola, and photovoltaic companies arrives. The two have a point of union, which is the no to the actual decree, but the arguments they raise and the consequences of the reports themselves are not the same. On the basis of the important role that Iberdrola plays in the Basque Autonomous Community, which we all recognize and know of the economic importance that Iberdrola plays for the Basque Arks, what I wanted to ask you is whether you have had any contact or meeting with representatives of both sectors, of large companies and of photovoltaics, to know the content of these reports and, from there, perhaps the Basque Government can express to us what approach you have on this subject.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u88	Thank you, Miss Rojo. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u89	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Ms. Rojo, I'll answer your question directly and answer the question exactly, it's no. It's only for this matter that we don't have a meeting with Iberdrol or with big companies like that, or with corporations that encourage photobolts. Not just for that. That doesn't mean we don't know what some people think and what others think when they're in different meetings. Still, what have we done? We have, in some measure, followed, knowing that there are some reports, what we would do in our circle of self-consumption, and how we would encourage it, knowing in what political situation and with what care the decision was made. And what we want is to encourage self-consumption balance and electric production to exploit and promote a proper rule and camp here, Eukadin. That's what we've been doing, because if we're just talking to people who are interested, we won't end it. The Basque Government therefore maintains that the consumer must have the capacity to choose to buy or self-produce energy. That is the objective, and from that point of view, what we are trying to do is to find a space of our own so that we can establish regulations that guarantee this aspect. That is the position of the Government, and that is what we are working on. Because self-production, moreover, is positive for the whole electrical system, so we understand. Not only the self-consumption, but the energy distributed and produce and consume as closely as possible. That is why we have considered establishing and working on such legislation. That's the way we're working, and the goal has to be for each user to decide what their capacity is going to be, whether to buy the energy they're going to consume or self-produce. And it has to be independent of external aspects that come in to tell you how you have to do it and what kind of regulation you have to put in place in that direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u90	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u91	Thank you, President. We understand that meeting you to talk to someone who has raised a report with the impact that it had – one had more impact than another – seems to us to go beyond talking with part, doesn't it? It is important to know what opinion Iberdrola has in the approach of self-consumption. In my view, in the view of the Socialist Group, it is very important. It seems to us fair and also responsible to be able to meet with those who have been ruined by a photovoltaic investment, which is what has happened to many Basque entrepreneurs as well. It is not, then, that we would never end up, but I believe that when reports are published that the majority of citizens or the majority of those working in this field get what they get through the media, it seems important that the Basque Government can position itself. Because we start from the fact that, in fact, energy competition globally is a state competition; therefore, if a state organic law were to be amended, it would be state competence and we would have to wait to see what happens. Indeed, if Pedro Sánchez ruled, the royal decree would be repealed because it is an electoral commitment and we are against it, but perhaps, if that does not happen, to see what will happen. On the other hand, we understand that what you are asking us is that the Basque Government is working on the possible drafting of a law to create a framework of its own in which the Basque Government... But what state is that in? What's that gonna cover? What solution is it going to give to self-consumption? Because to Basque people who have ventured to be able to work on those issues, who have made an economic investment, something will have to be said to them, beyond the fact that the Basque Government is working on a bill. That bill, what does it want to legislate, what solutions will it provide? Because you in the previous speech did tell us about the investments you want to make in renewables, about issues that are still pending. We all have a common view. The energy issue is a pending issue in which we need to get to work now. It moves much more than was thought a few years ago, which was energy policy; and it is true that there are dependencies, and those dependencies must be given solutions and we are not going to cheat in solitary and say that we want 100% renewables, because in Basquedi it is very complicated, having an energy dependence of 95%. But as far as self-consumption is concerned, if you tell me that you are working within a legal framework of your own that can provide a solution to what it has to do with the Basque Autonomous Community, I have nothing but to ask you, in general, the main axes or what is going to be the content of that law in order to be able to solve this, if, in fact, we repeal the decree.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u92	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u93	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. I want to mutilate maybe a couple of things. When I told him that we have not met with either one or the other, I mean not expressly and only dedicated to the reason for that report and its opinion. Obviously, we have met with them, above all with the photovoltaic part, because it was already in a difficult situation before self-consumption, they were already affected by the regulations and by all the energy reform that the Spanish State has undertaken. Then, from that point of view, we're just as worried as they are. Iberdrola, on the other hand, is important for Euskadi, not only because of what it brings to the Basque Arks but also because of everything it pulls from the whole energy sector in Euskadi, from all electronic companies. Then your opinion is important, but, of course, it won't be more important than anyone else's. We consider any of the aspects. When we talk about self-consumption, we also talk about distributed energy, which means having the energy as close as possible to the consumption points. If someone has, as we were talking about, a biomass plant, if we set up a photovoltaic plant on the roof of a particular house, as Mr Maeztu was saying, of course, what we are dealing with in the regulation is to say – and I say this to you in a more technical way – that every consumer has the right to manage his production and consumption within his border point, that is, wherever he is working, that there is no interference from anyone else, from anyone who can put neither a specific authorization or permit, nor an accountant, nor that person has to register at any point in a specific way, provided that he works within that contact point. That is the basis on which it is working, not a law, but a regulation that allows us to function under those conditions. We don't know if it's even going to be possible, but that's the point we're working on. And I hope, of course, that the royal decree will be repealed, because it would be the solution, and that energy reform that has been made will be reformed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The 15th point in the theme list: "Appeal, Ubeka Unza, and EH Collectors of the Union, made to the Chief of Police and Society, to regulate worthy conditions of health, and autonomical compact." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u95	Good morning, everyone. Mr. Toña, good morning. We've decided to go to you because we don't know what else we can do because we don't know what else we can do about the medical department, seeing what it's not doing in the ambulance sector. We appeal to you for two reasons: and therefore we think that you are well acquainted with the sector, and moreover, besides signing the treaty of Biscay, it is also agreed that the Covenant of EAE should be promised and permitted. On the other hand, we now appeal to you because you're the head physician of the United States and because we understand that there is also your responsibility for taking in practice the proposal which you have made in this house, to become reality, and also because the team that supports your government protects it and accepts it. I think you know the sector better than anyone, you know the situation in which the health transport sector is found: in the presidency, very deregative, in the same company of compacts, the inferior conditions of labour, the abuses of pratic contracts, the lack of work... And we add also to this that the Department of Health encourages contracts and tenors to offer this service. All you have to do is see the degree of economic offer and the technical offer. But today, I'm not going to include myself in the design and contractation field. We'll leave that for another time. I would like to place more in the field of Covenant to-day, because we understand that the worthy labours of the labourers have influence on the quality of the service, and that these workers need suitable conditions for the development of their labours. We must add to this, and also to the state which is taking place in Aranus: There is an emergency service from February 2014, but, of course, as it is an emergency service, their minimum is 100, so no one remembers them. We've had several times in this house to be more strict, we've had some of the operating agents at the U.S.C. Board of Health and Konsumus, the social representatives of the sector, and, well, we could hire the information they've left in this house whenever you like (any reports and photos) and we could get together that it's really a serious situation to see. So, Mr. Toña, you will understand that when we've placed several proposals and initiative on the table, and have seen that they don't advance, although they are accepted, we have a point of despair. We have a desperate point, but we still want to continue working in order to solve this situation, because we understand that this area is essential in health; emergency situations are managed, an emergency service is provided, so we think it's a very important sector. In this sense, EH Collector's initiative, E.R.R.R.R.R.R.R., and the Slegal Socialists, on April 7th, 2014, the successor was accepted at the Board of Health and Constuna: "To ensure the security of health and protection of society, to maintain the initiative to regularize the health transport sector... This was required by the Medical Department, "by encouraging and directing autonomizing autonomical agreement in this sense." "And also, as long as the agreement mentioned enters into force, let the worthy condition of the workers of the medical transportation sector establish the means of securing the efficiency of the service for the first step, in order not to apply reform and necessary arbitration, and keep the ultraactivity in force." It was, and that's what this house has agreed to, but for the moment everything is in nothing, and it's not likely to go any further, even though the bargain's a table, we know, but what we've seen so far is not very hopeful. We know that this table was called this week, and we know that February delayed 17th. We also know that the director of your department has met with both parties, with the patricians, with the social delegation, so, knowing all this, we want to hear something else today. Yeah, we don't want to hear that again. Today we'd like to know what initiative you've taken, or what you've taken, and how you'll be able to give a definite solution to the situation. We'd like to hear the deadline, in which direction you see the autonomical agreement becoming reality. We'd like to hear what project, what plan, beyond the fine words, to deserve the sector. So, Mr. Toña, what initiative he has taken or you'll take from the Eplegu and the Politic Society Department, and you'll have, before long, a autonomical exchange for the health transportation, and guarantee the worthy working conditions of the sector workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. In reply, Mr. Toña has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u97	Good morning, Congressmen. You're asking us again, Mrs. Rebeka Ubera, with the initiative that the head of the Eplegus and the National Society has taken in the negotiation of collective agreements. And again, I would like to remind you that we are speaking of a collective compact, so as it is in the State of Workers, as in the article 82th, collective compacts are determined by representatives of workers, and by their chief corporations in negotiations, by free agreements, according to their collective autonomy. Imagine that collective agreements are signed by representatives of workers and corporations, not as I myself, nor by other departments. We don't trust collective agreements, and we can't trust this or push it. We're doing what we can do, and we'll continue to do it without fear, our directors, our subsidies, are on top. For this reason the final issue of negotiations is the fruit of both parties' will. It is true that there are negotiations in this composition of the will, especially in the consent of the parties which contract, that a third person becomes very important, sometimes necessary, as I was in this conflict. But now, this government has always sought the best scene for the agreement. Having said that, and focusing on the question I am asking myself, I would like to bring the non-legislative proposal that you have brought, 65/2014, on the regulation of health transport, adopted on 7 April 2014 in committee and which was recollected in PNL 146/2014 of 8 October, where the Department of Health was urged, inter alia, to articulate measures to promote and guide the autonomous agreement, and to activate measures for the non-implementation of labour reform and for the maintenance of ultraactivity. As I said to you, Mrs Rebeka Ubera, this government is not the holder of labour relations, it is the parties; it is neither the Department of Health nor the department I run, nor we therefore sign collective agreements. In addition, I think it should be added that the Department of Health, which is the main agent in trying to ensure quality health care and which I knew well in my time, indeed, and the Department of Employment and Social Policy, now as our labour authority, we are working in a coordinated way to encourage the parties to reach an autonomous collective agreement, which is an issue that was reflected in that agreement signed by the representation of workers (LAB, Commissions, USO and UGT) and employers on 8 April 2014 in my presence as mediator, as you said, in the Bizkaia ambulance conflict. After all, this Government is working for quality services, to guarantee quality services to citizens, which are our commitment. This is why the Department of Health carries out an inspection plan, specifically designed to monitor the service, so that the situations that you report to us are not given, to ensure that the conditions stipulated in the award are met and thus complied with as set out in the above-mentioned GNP. You are well aware of this activity, as the Health Adviser has been reporting on the progress made in complying with this non-legislative proposal in the relevant parliamentary committee. And our Labour Inspectorate, which we lead, has been coordinating with the Department of Health at all times, and in the specific case we are dealing with today, as in several other cases, has collaborated to help the parties to reach agreements. This negotiating process, which I have seen you already know, began on 26 November 2015 by setting up the negotiating committee for the collective agreement on road health transport in ambulances for the sick and injured of the Autonomous Community, on 26 November 2015, when in the agreement that we signed, we said that the parties to the agreement considered it necessary to take steps towards the achievement of an autonomous sectoral collective agreement and to do so undertook to take the necessary steps in the two months following the signature, and we were talking about April 2014 and meet for the first time in November 2015. Well, in particular, the business part is composed by the commission of the three representative business associations in the autonomic field in the health transport in ambulances, which are the Association of the Health Transport of the Basque Country, the socio-health transport of Euskadi and Sanitrans and, on the trade union side, really all our representative centers: ELA, LAB, UGT, Commissions and USO, which has the majority in this sector. The three business associations expressed their respective representativeness by mutual agreement: the Basque Country Health Transport Association 58% and, therefore, the majority, the Euskadi Social Health Transport 31% and Sanitrans 11%. Not bad to start with, at least they were formed and mutually recognized their representativeness. In the social bank, the commission was constituted according to these representations: USO with 33 %, LAB second with 24 %, ELA with 20 % – which did not sign the agreement, the others yes –, UGT with 13 % and Commissions with 10 %. I believe that, beyond trying to enter into an agreement, that an autonomous agreement has to be made, that the parties commit themselves to start up in two months, in April 2014, and they themselves – I am not going to say whose responsibility it is –, the first meeting they have to launch this is in November 2015, that is, year and a half after, we cannot, from the department, force the parties to do something that they themselves have not..., I am going to say "may", not "loved". We can help in the search for agreements. We help and, in this case, first person. But it doesn't matter, the government has a procedure for resolving collective conflicts, which helps on almost all occasions where there are collective conflicts – I would say that in all of them – which helps in many conflicts that there are, in the negotiations of conventions, work that is done in silence, often, without the parties, I believe, recognizing it in private, neither recognize it in public, but it doesn't matter, it is our job to do what we have to do. That's as far as we can go. What we can't do isn't in our hands.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u98	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u99	First of all, thank you for the answer I gave you. But, as I thank you, say: You mentioned that when you started your turn, I'm coming back with this question. But, as far as I know, the first and only time was to come to you today with this subject. And, to tell you the truth, I heard your answer sadly because I expected another answer. So far I've heard the same answer the medical department has given me, and, in fact, I was hoping for something else. The balls are out again, the attentions are on the roofs of others. And that it's not your responsibility, it's a business between workers and corporations. I know you don't sign the agreement, and it's not our intention to get in touch with workers and corporations, but, Mr. Toña, it's you, the patriarchal. The responsibility of this service is the chief concern of this service. It belongs to this government. What this government does is an assignment to offer a service and hires a company. So, I think the government has a lot to do and it can do a lot. What is he in the hands of? In the hands of this government. What's passing is that this government is doing a bit of neglect. He looks away. Offering the service as required, all the means required to offer it properly, that the labor conditions of the workers are worthy, and that they have all their resources... The government's responsibility. And it's a lie, it's a lie, because I'm already bored to hear that it's a vision, that it's tracking... What vision? What's the follow? We're seeing it. Yes, you say they do, but we know the inspection, the continuation, the way they do. And what is done here is, when once the contractation is given, not exactly as it should be, there is no continuation, no continuity of service is provided as required. He's not here. He's not here. And the sector, really, is in a terrible situation. And quality is often guaranteed by the professionality of workers, and not by the resources which this government can make. And it's time, really, that this government should play with responsibility, with care, with responsibility and the bull to keep it from the horns. And there, you guys, with contractions, you have to change there. You have to change your mind. You have to change your funding. And not just to help. We expect something more from you, something more. It's not enough with help, at least with the help that's been given so far. And it seems to me that we must change this attitude, that we must change it; otherwise, how can we understand that table beginning with the middle of a year and a half delay? It seems to me that if the Government had acted there with another more active attitude, things would be different at this moment. Because, in the end, you handle the money, you control the funding. And how contractations are made, what technical conditions, what economic offer, you establish all the criteria. So there's a lot of work to do there, and that's government work, not work between companies and workers. So I hope you'll give me another answer this second round, because otherwise we'll have to start thinking about other things in this sector of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u101	Thank you, ma'am. It is true that for the first time you have come to me with this subject, and then it is so. First of all, I'll tell you how the meetings have gone and what function the government has played, because I think you're here looking for an answer. At the first meeting, November 2015, as I said before, the union representatives of the unions left a separate platform to start the negotiationr process. Then the second session of this negotiator commission was this year on January 12th, where the Basque Health Company gave both their answers to the union platform which gave them up at the first meeting. Such negotiations are always the same: a first platform, then another answer, and then that's where wells y aflojas. The next meeting, I think, is once in a week, if they haven't been delayed for an hour on Thursday, I don't know if you said it was delayed, but I had that information. And like the two before, these assemblies are held at the Council of Job in Bilbo's Relations. And that thing also wants to say, because when they come together people know that they are going to get the deal, or else they put other places. Then it's not always a deal, but the place means something between corporations and unions. On the part of the Government, and more specifically on the part of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, we are in permanent contact and pushing the representations of both sides. The two have been transferred from the interest of the Government to the achievement of this convention, which they themselves signed on an autonomous basis, which regulates the working conditions of women workers in the three historical territories in a uniform manner. At that time the conditions of Bizkaia were regulated, but we knew that we had those of Álava, and that's how they are, and those of Gipuzkoa, and that's how they are. That is why I believe that on both sides, with my mediation and the placet, certainly with the good eyes of the Government and the Department of Health, the start was signed to make the sectoral agreement. But we, Mrs. Ubera, are not looking elsewhere. The holders of collective bargaining are workers and companies. The Department of Employment and Social Policy and the Department of Health are not leaving them alone, but the negotiators are them. And the government is not the employer, it is not the employer, Mrs Ubera. He knows well. I know what it meant for the government to have to accept that agreement in Bizkaia ambulances, the extra cost. I know perfectly well. And not in my capacity as a counselor, but I knew then. But it accepted, accepted, to improve the conditions of workers and of women workers and to improve the condition of the sector and to establish the reasonable conditions for it to be possible to expand afterwards, through it, as a sectoral and autonomous agreement. I recognize that we are starting from a reality of an atomized sector, I recognize that we are seeking a unification of criteria in the workplace and that this is through an autonomous collective agreement, because we understand that this is the best way to guarantee service. We are well aware of the situation in the sector. The representatives of the Directorate of Labour and our Social Security have held separate meetings with all trade union organizations and will do so with the companies. And in these meetings, in addition to reflecting the specific approaches of the parties, we analyse them and, after their assessment, the representations, as we always do, are given the opinion we have on them, so that, if they wish, they take it into account. But if collective bargaining does not move forward, neither here nor in other sectors, it is not the Government's fault, and I will tell you later. This is the work we're doing. I want to remind you, Mrs. Ubera, that engagement is with people and that we will do everything we can, whatever is in our power, to make the agreement of the two parts, and to continue the services of quality.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u102	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 16th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, Ichasus González, a member of the Basque Socialists, a member of the United States, a chief of police society, of the measures which have been taken to stand up against the arts of labour." My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u103	Good morning, counselor. The information published by Osalan concerning November 2015 shows that the number of accidents at work has increased, especially in the construction sector. It is shown that the number of new accidents is 27,663, compared to 25,729 in 2014, with an annual variation of 7,6 %. The incidence rate in the sector has been 71.54 compared to 70.97 in 2014, and there is an increase of 0.8. Anyway, I don't like the data much because they also depend on the sources that are handled, and this can be discussed and I don't care to get into discussions about the data. I would like to remind you that in the full overview of the comprehensive strategy on unemployment and poverty it was agreed to urge the Basque Government in the following terms: "In order to remove from the root the situations of labour insecurity so abundant, both in the public and private sectors, and also in order to ensure compliance with the Law on the Prevention of Labour Risks, and consequently to eliminate industrial accidents, to regulate more rigorously in the field of inspection and to strengthen the material and personal means available, especially in relation to the economic activity of construction". Well, the question, therefore, Mr. Counsellor, is: know the Osalan data, do you think that your Government has properly complied with the parliamentary mandate on labour inspections in the construction sector?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u105	The chief physician, the chief physician, the congressman, the good day again. To put it on the subject, you've given the biggest facts of all the jobs accidents we've had in 2015, Mr. Ichaso. You have given the general data and I will stick to the data of the question you ask, which are those of the construction sector. There have been 2,555 accidents, of which 2,520 were minor, 31 were serious and four were fatal. In 2014 there were six mortals; in 2015, four. In the construction sector, 127 accidents occur, of which 126 are minor and one is serious and none is fatal. Although neither you nor I seem to like it, however, it does indicate that the figures have improved, because behind the figures there are people, that's why we don't like them, but we're not happy, that's why we don't like them. As long as serious accidents continue to occur, that's why we don't like them, even if only one. We can't say the data is good. No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u106	Thank you, Mr. Toña. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u107	It is not that I do not like the statistics, Mr Councilman, what is happening is that it is true that sometimes in the discussion of the figures one can enter into that debate on galgos or punccos, and, in fact, I, what I ask you, Mr Councilman, is: according to that parliamentary agreement, has the number of inspections in the construction sector been carried out properly? Has it increased? Hasn't it increased? Because, as far as I know, there are still vacancies in the corps of uncovered inspectors. As far as I know, there seem to be fewer inspectors operating now, under the Basque administration, than before the transfer. Therefore, as it seems to rejuvenate the economy a little – or so it is said – labor sinestrality also increases. I cannot attribute to the Government the increase or decrease, if any, of labour sinestrality. I understand that it does what it can, but this Parliament, which controls and drives government action, has begun to strengthen labour inspections, because, as you know, every month some 300 punishable cases have been detected since the inspection: workers without contracts, foreign workers without permits, lack of discharge from Social Security... And, therefore, if there were the troops and inspections indicated in that mandate, that is, those actions would also be doubled, so that many activities would be taken out of the submerged economy, it could be further protected in the precarious situation that exists. Another factor contributing to the disaster is the transfer of workers by ETT, which is also perfectly demonstrated. And I, what I ask you and what I want to know is, Counselor, whether that mandate is being properly fulfilled; please tell me, if really, in comparative terms, there are more inspections now than before and how far they come.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u108	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u109	Thank you, ma'am. Not being satisfied with the data, I will give you the ones you request, I think I will give you all. I would like to move you to what is the focus of this Government's activity in this area, which is carried out from two points of view: one of them, that of the Labour Inspectorate you mentioned. I will give you the figures of actions in the field of construction: 1,791 actions, of which we have raised 43 infringements, 326 requirements and 796 contracts have been revised, which, in fact, had some deficiency, because they were mild. And secondly, Osalan's work. According to the Osalan management plan, the visits carried out in the construction sector are framed in different actions: 1,516 construction works have been visited, the opening of which has been known, providing assistance to all the companies that we have been able to (2,152 companies). 107 visits to public works and large enterprises have been verified, the planning and monitoring of which is carried out in the working groups and territorial commissions with the participation of Osalan, the labour authority, the Labour Inspectorate, the mining authority, the outlaws and other public bodies and enterprises. 41 accidents of which I mentioned earlier have been investigated. The four mortals, indeed, the 27 graves, nine minor and a multiple accident with three workers in Gipuzkoa. 49 accidents have been monitored, and in many cases preventive measures have been sent to the companies concerned. In terms of promoting prevention, there have been quite a number of days and publications to raise awareness of the sector. And, as a result of all these actions, Osalan has visited 2,060 works and analyzed these 90 accidents, targeting 17 technicians, more than 30% of the total technical staff of the organization. Whether there are more or less inspectors, we have a budget allocation to cover the places of inspectors that are pending, and if they are not covered it is not because of our lack of will, in fact it can be seen in the budget both last year and this year; if they are not covered it is because in the body of inspectors the competences are shared with the central government, as you also know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The seventeenth point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the members of the Bel-Brit-Sat-Sourfields assembled to the head of the Imperial and Political Society, as to the proposal of supporting the worthy conditions of public contract." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u111	Thank you. Good morning or noon. With intolerable unemployment, the structure of labor is the principal concern of individuals and of society. The evil of the prerogative is diffused throughout all parts, and it is obvious that its influence is directly or indirectly displayed in the public. Urtarrilen 16an, Adegik antolatutako ekitaldi batean, komunikabideen aurrean subkontratazian, externalizazionan gerratzen denari buruz honako hau adierazi zenuen: "I have also received a letter from a public subcontract in which the worker has been collecting 832 euros for six years. This can't be." As you know, this is more than once discussed in the legislature. The several agents (especially those who are impressed) frequently accuse what you have been saying every day. And we have no doubt that more serious circumstances occur in the enterprise assigned to public contract. On the other hand, it has been a long time since the ELA union had driven us, and the discussion of the legislative initiative introduced after receiving 1,000 signatures. The goal, among other things, is to avoid what you are talking about, and to guarantee the condition of worthy compacts and labours in public contracts. I'm just saying, if we consider what the party you're holding on to the government that you're in is what you've agreed to with PSE, those unfair situations will remain, because they're allowed to be. Is that why he'll make use of the appeals of the operators to guarantee worthy conditions of public contracts? What's he gonna do?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u113	The head of the table, the chief physician, the congressman, good day. Mrs Belénburdo, when you plan this question, well, I thought about the legislation initiative of the citizens under the ELA union, the introduction of clausulous societies into public contracts, as they say on the Ordinrun. This same week, as you know, the boarder, who takes care of entering the legislature, the public contract of society, has agreed to send a text to the commission, and after that he is to send it to the whole assembly of the legislature; so it is an initiative that is discussed in the legislature, and I should like to carry on with all due respect to the proceedings and the jurisdictions of this Comrade General.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u114	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u115	Mr. Chief physician, yes, this Camera has a procedure and with all due respect that is one thing, and one question to the chief physician, the chief physician. And I think that the one and the other is indispensable, because you have talked about it several times yourself and talked about it, so do you admit that at the present time public contracts do not guarantee worthy conditions of work? Do you admit that today is the day when you pay five euros for every hour, doing 22 hours in a row, etc? At the present day the prices of litigation are being lowered, especially in construction, and this tends to pregrate without doubt. And besides, some corporations have difficulty fulfilling the contract here as well. Why doesn't the chief physician do anything? Why isn't he doing anything? Because it's a good idea to lower the prices of modification, otherwise I don't understand it. Because it's cheaper. The application of Araba, Biscay, Gipure, and Navarre, cost prices, because, after all, it is not really ready to resist the prerogative and injustice, and to secure worthy conditions of labour; for otherwise it is well to make a declaration, but if nothing be done, when there is a power to repair it, and in a government, that is what I say to the chief physician, what he is ready to do. This camera will make its way, and, indeed, I don't know what it will be (probably not positive). You mentioned the ELA initiative. They have been abroad to-day, and have been in the streets to proclaim and demand the consent of this legislature to the legislative assembly. I don't know if he'll have an attitude towards you. If not...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u117	Thank you. Question to the Chief Physician, question to the Government and answer to the Government. The initiative to discuss the legislature has, like the original initiative, two basic virtualities: on the one hand, it develops the application of a collective contract within the circle of public contract. He receives in his own person the sentence of administration in the field of opposition, you know, unless it be filled with temporal demands, and on the other hand he treats of subrogation in case of a possible succession of enterprises. The text adopted by the presentation and forwarded to the commission obliges tenderers to indicate which collective agreement will result from their application, a very important demand. With regard to the provisions on subrogation, in my view, in principle it seems that the content of both appears to be virtually similar, adding little to the reality already contemplated not only in some collective agreements but in the Act itself on the Status of Workers. As a general assessment, I believe that it is quite appropriate, both from the point of view of the competence of the Autonomous Community and from the practical point of view, and of a claim of confluence with the proposal contained in the ILP, although it is likely that its proposers will be insufficient. However, one of the reasons for considering this proposal insufficient is the current situation in sectoral collective bargaining, in which ELA and other trade unions also have much to say, as well as employers. That is, in the absence of negotiation. A situation of blockade that we cannot blame on any of the parties to the negotiation in particular, but which, of course, cannot be blamed on is the Basque Government, that there are no implementing agreements when there are contracts. And I'm going to say to the end, that through the Basque, Enplegu, and the Society Department, as a temporal authority, the legislature will establish the law that is accepted, the proposal made by a union in the creation of the LILP, by taking advantage of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u118	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 18th point in the subject list: "To ask the question, the lawmakers of the Oyrar des Euscala Group to the chief physician of Education, Language Policy, and Cultuate, to investigate a professor about abuse of Gasteian students." Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, let us once again bring the case of the investigation into a public school teacher in Vitoria-Gasteiz into alleged sexual abuse of a minor and other cases on which proceedings have been opened over the past two years. The education delegate, yourself, had to appear on this issue here, they supported all the government's inaction, the neglect of the child and the neglect of her family, they supported her in a meeting with the chief prosecutor of Álava, in the Álava Prosecutor's Office, at which they were told that there was no case. That was all the argument in which the Basque Government's version was supported. Then the chief prosecutor of Álava had to go out to the media and later appeared in this Parliament to say that the education delegate of Álava had lied, that she had lied seriously, and that it did not correspond to the reality what she had said in this House, disassembled all the arguments of her department and her own. And we would like to know whether, knowing this from November, what measures it has taken or what it will take in relation to the delegate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u120	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u121	Mr. President of Parliament, chief of departments, congressman, Mr. Oyreland, good day. Look, Mr Oyarzabal, we are talking about different positions on the same fact that, without assessing who is right, it can in any case be the subject of debate. The Fiscal General of the Arab had defended his version in the prosecution of the legislature, as the office of Education did in his performance. You called them to listen to their versions, and that's exactly what they did: each man defended his own version, and I will tell you that I owe them the greatest respect and that they are indebted to them. I don't know who's telling the truth or who won't. Moreover, I shall not be able to trouble myself with this subject, which will only compromise things, and promote the controversy which ought never to have happened. I'd rather stay with the Attorney General of the Arab, who'd have given me a lot of thought in his speech, and now I'd like to share them with you. Firstly, that he wanted his presence before the parliamentary committee to serve to put an end to a controversy which, above all, harms minor victims. Secondly, that what has happened is not a good thing for anyone and that it would be good if this type of incidence, possibly without coordination on the part of the institutions, did not happen again. Thirdly, respect for and protection of the rights of all persons concerned and the right to the presumption of innocence. As I have said, I quite agree with these parties, and these are the things which I have wished to get from the first moment: discretion, severity, respect, and the protection of essential rights, and even a greater co-ordination among institutions. That's exactly what's working on this government.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u122	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u123	Counselor, you make it worse, it makes it worse every time you come out here to talk about this case. Look, the Education delegate said textually, in a parliamentary committee, referring to the meeting with the chief prosecutor: "I directly asked the prosecutor if there was any concrete action to be taken with regard to this professor. The prosecutor told me that no, that there was no case, that there was absolutely nothing." He repeated this sentence twice. "We are not informed at any time that there would be open due diligence," the delegate tells us, "at no time at all," she repeats again. And besides – he continues to tell us – we were told that we should not take any kind of action because there was no case. There has since been no communication with the Prosecutor's Office." And, hey, I'm gonna tell you what the D.A. told us. The prosecutor came here to say that the delegate had lied and you come here to put the word of the chief prosecutor of Álava, who came accompanied by the chief prosecutor of minors, into selves. He said: point one, which reported on the ongoing investigations to the Education delegate; two, which conveyed the concern of the Office of the Prosecutor for alleged sexual assaults and the impact on the victims and the investigator; three, which in no case was told to the delegate that there was no case, at any time; four, the ongoing investigation went ahead and resulted in the filing of a complaint against the investigated professor; five, the delegate did not raise the need to take any precautionary action at that meeting; six, by the tone – the prosecutor told us here, in this Parliament – and the content of the conversation with the delegate, we deduced that the department had no intention of taking any action on this matter; and seven, he was suggested by the Office of the Prosecutor to take some measures that, respecting the rights of the investigator, would ease the tension of families and centers. You didn't do anything. Not only did you not do anything, you did not protect the minor, it is that in this case you have been covering up, covering up the case, plugging it up, and I think this leaves you in very bad place, because all your arguments have been dismantled by the Prosecutor's Office, counselor. It is just that I do not think he is aware not only of the seriousness of the fact that we are coming here to lie to the House, but also that the measures have not been taken knowingly. We are dealing with a case in which you have been able to engage not only in negligence, not only in leaving office, but I believe that we can also talk about responsibilities, we can even talk about the commission of some kind of crime. Because the child has been unprotected when her health was at stake. Not only have they not acted, but they have knowingly not responded to their obligations.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u124	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Your time is over. It's over. It's over. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u125	Mr. Oyre generous, I told you the other round, and I won't repeat it. And besides, all this argument you've been using has been discussed in the previous scenes, everything, and I'll never repeat it again. I only assure you that the Government has learned a great deal about this subject or this subject, but unfortunately you are insisting on taking it out with one sole aim the greatest political profit, without going beyond your own interest, without thinking about the victims of this whole affair, and considering the damage and pain which it is doing. Anyway, I'll answer your question. You want to know what I'm going to do with the Arab rep. Now, as with other people who compose education, I tell you that I intend to continue my work, especially for the sake of children who are our principal object, to continue to improve the quality of the euscal system during the day. We'll continue to work in order that this situation won't happen again. In fact, we are working on a protocol that coordinates different areas and involves, in addition to the Department of Education itself, various departments of this Government (Health and Safety), as well as other institutions. I am referring mainly to the municipal and territorial social services for the care and protection of children and adolescents and the Office of the Public Prosecutor. A necessary work for the benefit of our student, of our educational system and, ultimately, for the benefit of Basque society in general.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The nineteenth point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Estoy Breñas González de Zárate EH Team Members made of Education, Policy, and Cultural Division, near the nature of the opening of Donostia 2016." Mrs Breñas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u127	Thank you. Good afternoon. The opening of Donostia 2016's Community-Assembling agency caused the society to be disturbed and agitated by so many cold citizens. And this gives us more uneasiness about original values, considering the different opinions I have heard among the members of the Patron. It wasn't the decision of the technical teams, but the Foundations-that is to say, the Donstrosian Council, the Gipuzian Modals, and the Spanish Ministry, using the most advanced digital methods, with the finger to make something big in the opening. In that sense, we cannot lose the global view of Donostia 2016: one, as they must be constant by the ends of their project, and on the other hand by the opening of it, by the act of 88. But the ones who played the show on the bridge were the EAJ and the town government, protected by Christmas too. That is to say, those of you who introduced difficulties in the former law have fled for an exact example of indulgence, producing experiments, and predicting a very striking beginning. And you'll have to explain the investment in an event that hasn't reached its planned goals at least 22,000 euros per minute. Different opinions have been heard on the development of the spectacle, and we will not enter, but it is evident that many of the people have seen and heard nothing. Still, we appreciate a lot of people and workers' work. But be clean: As it did not happen in the law of nature, we shall not go to hinder and destroy the project, but we shall follow the project in order that the values bound to the original model may not be lost in the way. However, the beginning has given us a lesson to study and not to forget. On the other hand, it is impossible to mix with the number of spectators of the community, and still less with the number of spectators. It's not the same thing, for instance, the model of the Wave, and even of the drum, where thousands of people participate, each in his own way, but actively in his own way, in the interior, or on the bridge, as an act of going to see him as an artificial fire. And what matters to the Combat is the direction of patterns and values, that is, equality, participation, activity, and process, and creation, and passive sights. And in this furrow, we're very concerned about what's behind the presentation on the bridge, including the details of the surface. For instance, the excuse for going to Victoria Eugenia in tag; for instance, to go from the microbus fleet to the Tabal, the close of the VIP Tabakaler for VIPs, we suppose a very limited entrance to the terrace, that there would be pictures and cups everywhere, because behind it there is a whole city pattern, a city view for whom and for whom it is building Donostia 2016; There may not be enough process participants, perhaps not enough time to provide a core part of the project. And therefore the time has come to ask: why, and who has prevented this process. It is an old time to measure the pattern of spectacles: EAJ decided to put the brakes in order to appear as the poor man's saviour, but it's been a mistake. And that's why I asked: Did the contractation conditions ensure the original values of Donostia 2016? That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u128	Thank you, Mrs Breñas. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u129	Andrea president. Mrs. Breñas, yes, the contraction for the opening ceremony ensured the original values of Donostia 2016. The value of the capital of Cultura was mentioned clearly under the terms of contraction, and these were fulfilled. Another thing is, whether the act was attained to the hearts of the people as much as it pleased, but this is another matter. In fact, Donostia 2016 Kultura, the need to fill up the value of the capital, was fully received in the exchange by certain indicators. In the first place, the plan of the narrative was to invade the value of the capital. In the second place, the story was to obtain sympathy with the citizen, dealing with ideas and subjects that could be felt as well as identified by the people. Thirdly, it should have the real participation of people on foot in the development of content. The inaugural event was attended by 52 collectives and associations, close to 1,000 volunteers, as well as a multitude of people on foot who were able to develop a real participation in the event. In any case, the inauguration of the European Cultural Capital was not a single event, but a total of 88 activities were held, of which some 85,000 people enjoyed, thanks to the participation of more than 1,500 volunteers for 5 days. And fourthly, it had to become a showy, spectacular TV-format product. These four parties were included in the contraction conditions, and it must be said that the event was more or less appreciated, that all these criteria were fulfilled, and Donostia 2016's original values were respected.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs Breñas? He mustn't speak. Madam, do you want to continue?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u131	I'll continue. The fact that an event is more or less successful does not affect the original value of Donostia 2016 Town. These are clear from the beginning, and have been careful to arrange all the events, even in the opening of the bridge of the partnership you speak of. Besides the original values, the conditions which Europe places must also be considered. To this point I must remark that the inauguration ceremony of Donostia 2016 had taken part with the people, as Brusel demanded, and the other performances which Brusel required. On the other hand, it has been followed by the same character and condition of the entertainments which have been celebrated in the other capitals of Europe. Donostia is maintained and respected by the original values of 2016, provided for conditions made by Europe. As I said before, we can admit that we have not been able to complete all hope with this particular event. In any case, we must perform a positive estimate, under consideration of the organizations and associations of the community. On the other hand, all opinions are respectable, of course they are. But what cannot be done is to seek to employ the capitalization of culture with other political interests. Patrol delegates on January 24th... I say, because many things have been said, and some things have been said, and others. And then, representing the patrician, we gave a press conference on January 24th. It was admitted that the main act of innovation had not filled his hopes, but that the rating of the patrician's inventions, of five days and not of one action, was a very positive fact. And that's got to stay with it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The twentieth point in the theme list: "To ask the question, as to the measures which are to be taken to improve the number of EIB audience." Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u133	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Chief of Police, Congressmen, good noon to all. The year of 2015 was over, and the EIB manager gave a press conference, which repeated what we had been saying during the law: A tendency to lower ETV audiences. The causes which explain this situation were discussed in the press conference, but we heard not a single measure of improving the audience. Another 231,000 citizens escaped from our public television station to other channels that were more attractive to them. The 2014 data already came in makeup, even made the game fall to lehendakari himself. They sold 13% of the audience, when, in fact, what they had done was artificially inflate the data with an ace that was removed from the sleeve. Change the year, but not the trend. We would like to see that at least when his mandate is over they will face reality and take steps to improve it. Counselor, the reality is that this Directorate is dedicated to managing, but it does not have a single strategic proposal that bets on the quality and attraction of an audience where ETB competes only with ETB, with what they offer in their own grill. That is why, once again, considering that you are responsible for the Basque broadcasting entity, I have to ask you what recommendations the Basque Government intends to make to the EITB Directorate in order to overcome this situation.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u134	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u135	President andrea, sailburua. Unzalu jauna, this last exercise has certainly been complicated. You know perfectly well, you know that it is being a difficult year for everyone and that this government is being forced to do more with less. This is an exercise of responsibility which we have been seized by the crisis and which in turn we are taking out many positive things. I know you'd prefer to stay with the negative result and the lower audience with the punctuality, but I'd like to extend an invitation to look at the invitation from a more general and more optimistic point of view. I'll tell you in a few ways that things aren't as black and as hard as you imagine. ETB is still inside the autonomical television set in second place, with 11% of the market quota. ETB is still a leader on the news. ETB is nearly 40 percent of a stock market, but it's a single and special case in public, over the 500,000 audience fence. And finally, as far as internet is concerned, the EiTV.eus website got a record in 2015 because it's almost $2 million per month. Since it is possible to conclude from all these facts, and in spite of all the difficulties we have alluded to here and there, EIB has been adapted to the present fact.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u137	Sailburu anderea, I will not blame this government or the Directorate – which, by the way, has been left alone with its support – for the movements that take place in the hearings, nor will I blame the difficulties that exist in the television market. And also, for you to see that our attitude is positive, and you have referred to that point, I will recognize that the Eusko Irratia channel, the Basque channel on the radio, has improved your audiences. This is a positive fact. But I will also remind you that the channel in Spanish has lost audience, and this can also be due to the ERE, to the loss of human resources from the ERE that you have made in that public entity. But we're going to go to the data. Today there are fewer people – and this is a reality – who see ETB, even having one more channel, as I said at the beginning. There are fewer people than in 2011 who see ETB. And there are new offers, but no offer is in Basque and no offer is in Basque and aimed at a children's audience. And precisely in this area there are 60,000 fewer people than in 2011 who see ETB1, without having competence, as I say and fortunately having more euskaldunes than in 2011. And besides, boys and girls are choosing less and less ETB3, and this, I don't think you tell me it's due to the fall of birth. This is because of the quality offered in Basque, or because of the lack of quality offered in Basque. But this does not end here: the hearing in 2015 is even lower than the minimums proposed by the Directorate. And this indicates one thing, that this Directorate is not able to analyse the situation and to take measures according to the challenges it has, which are many, that we recognize it, but is unable to take measures. You here, before, haven't told me a single measure. It has repeated to me a situation that we all know, but what I am asking of you is measures to correct and you do not ask me any of them. Because we are talking about a public entity for which you are the ultimate responsible, we are talking about a public entity that we want to strengthen. We are talking about a public entity that we want to be a service to all citizens of this country. But I insist, you do not get into the bottom line, you only get into the story of the situation, but not into deep analysis and strategic measures. And this is what I insist on and I have to say again: it's not good, it's not enough to say that things are wrong.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u138	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Mrs Harper, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u139	Mr Unzalu, I do not think it is necessary to explain to you or to many others what difficulties EITB is going through, more than once have been dealt with: a decrease in revenues, both public and private, resulting from the economic crisis; a distribution of channels of the digital dividend that does nothing to our Basque public television; the powerful emergence of Movistar on pay-TV with football and with its own content; the new madness resulting from the auction of sports rights, etc. We all know here too much of these difficulties, because we have often had occasion to discuss this Chamber. However, despite all these difficulties, I must remark that EIB has found a balance. I mean the balance between the supreme respect due to the natural values of the new economic situation, to the attainment of the main goals and the natural value of the euskal radio agent. And it's not about what's going to be done between the government and the EIB Manager, but what we're doing now. EITB has been an example of a less lasting growth, and therefore steps to another standard of public service, less expensive and more efficient. This pattern has three axes on its base: and thirdly to help us develop our visible sector, producing new products, creating new references, and strengthening the relationship and commitment to the cinema. Mr. Unzalu, that's EITB's new public service model. It is the model we have been working on and for whose development we are developing a contract-programme that will soon be approved by the Governing Council. This programme contract shall constitute the framework which, on the basis of the principles of public service and the objectives of the EITB itself, shall establish a correlation between the provision of public audiovisual communication services by Euskadi and its public funding during the period 2016-2019, providing it with the stability and effectiveness necessary for the fulfilment of those objectives.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Number twenty-one point in the subject list: "Interfection, the U.S.C.R.R.A.A.A.scial members of the Medical Department, the treatments given in 2015 against the Hepatitis." Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u141	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, chief physician, madam, good day to all. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today to ask the Health Adviser because you, the Government, the members of the Government and the government policy, do not respect the group of patients with hepatitis C, treat them unfairly and unfairly with respect to the rest of the sick in the Basque Autonomous Community. Look how you treat them, and I'll set an example for everyone to see. Let's make a comparison with a cancer patient. Diagnosed at an early stage, go to the specialist, who receives it and send it back home with a treatment for symptoms. Antithermal, if you have fever, antitussigens, if you have coughs, and he says, "Go home and when you have a metastasis come back, that then we will give you effective treatments." And he is also told not to complain because treatment is being given, for the fever, for the cough, anyway. And besides, you can't complain much more either, because if you demand more effective treatment, you are taking away the most serious treatment from the patient. Well, that's being done with the hepatitis C patient group. And what treatment do the less severe group and patients with hepatitis C receive? Well, a treatment that keeps him sick and allows the disease to move forward. This is what is done with the group of hepatitis C patients. In fact, you have classified them, not only in the Basque Country, but also in the rest of the autonomous communities, from F-1 to F-4 depending on their liver involvement. From F-1 to F-4 according to the fibrosis they have in the liver. Of course, F-4 patients are already patients who have a frankly fibrotic liver, close to failure and therefore candidate for transplantation. To the transplant that, if not given, the patient dies. I mean, it's a situation, in the end, of life or death. Of course, the patient receives a healthy liver, but as he continues to be ill and with hepatitis C virus in the body, the virus continues and initiates the same disease process, attacking the liver. In other words, the transplanted patient is in worse condition than another non-transplanted patient, because he must also receive treatment against rejection of the organ he has received. So get an idea of the quality of life the transplanted patient has. And in the meantime they blame the less serious patient, because they tell him that he competes in the treatment with which he is more serious. And this is called a lack of equity of some hepatitis C patients with others. As if they could not expect to receive the same treatment for their disease as the rest of the patients in the Autonomous Community, have cancer, have AIDS or have hepatitis C. We know that new drugs are very expensive, but it also costs money conventional treatment, symptomatic treatment of complications that are occurring, treatment of worsening symptoms, transplantation, possible hospital income. All that costs money. That costs money. And we also know that once the patient is treated successfully, he disappears, this patient disappears from the chronically ill group, no longer needs conventional treatment, laboratory tests, medical visits, hospital income. It also disappears the poor quality of life of a person, his job losses, the possible disability. It is true that unemployment and disability are borne by other administrations, other than health care, but that also consumes our resources, our taxes. So, where is the efficiency of this decision? Mr Councilman, you know very well that this Parliament is against your strategy of treating the sick in phase F-4. He has already agreed on the need to treat the whole collective. It is true that the priority is the most serious, but then you must treat the rest. And since it does not provide us with the information, as it does not provide us with the information that this Parliament has asked for on many occasions, we do not even know whether it has fulfilled its own strategy. I mean, at the end of January, has the treatment of all the patients in phase F-4 been completed? Is it the intention of the Government to meet the demand of all those affected by hepatitis and to extend these successful treatments to the sick to whom their doctors freely prescribe them? What is your strategy for 2016? How many patients have to be treated in 2016: 2,000, 4,000? Please tell us that. How much money have you allocated in 2015 for the hepatitis C patient group and how much you have for 2016? All this is what we want to know, and that is why we have conducted this inquiry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u143	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, Mrs. Roncal, good noon to all. I'll start from the end: The intention of the health department, and therefore the intention of the government, is to attend to the disease of the affected, as in any other case. First of all, I would like to show once again the solidarity of the Basque Government and the Department of Health with people affected by hepatitis C and their families. We know and understand perfectly well that any waiting is long for those who have a health problem and are pending a test or treatment. Therefore, go ahead with our respect, as well as our commitment to those who suffer from this or any other disease. Mrs Roncal, I wonder if it is the Government's intention to extend the treatment to treat hepatitis C to those who have been prescribed by its doctors. You know the answer perfectly well. Osakidetza has a culture and values based on caring for all people with equity and quality. We show it day by day, it's not going to change, and you and Basque society know it and don't have any doubts about it either. But I'm not going to talk to you about intentions, I'm going to talk to you about facts. In Euskadi, all patients affected by hepatitis C are being treated and will be treated gradually, taking into account only medical and equity criteria. I should like to remark that Euskadin, as always, is treating all the sick, step by step, and, of course, with a foundation of medical and equity. In January 2014, three months after the health authorities approved the use of the first second generation antiviral, Osakidetza established the working group for the treatment of hepatitis C, with a clear objective: to incorporate the new medicines in an orderly manner. Throughout 2014, this working group incorporated medicines as the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality authorized them. In January 2015, the ministry set up a committee of experts on hepatitis C chaired by Professor Rodés, to which a professional from Osakidetza joined. On 23 February 2015, the Department of Health approved and implemented the strategy for the care of hepatitis C in Euskadi, with four lines of action and a specific organizational structure, based on a Steering Committee, a Clinical Assistance Committee and a Social and Citizen Participation Committee. And he appointed a strategy coordinator, Dr. Daniel Zulaika, named for his experience in community-based approaches to infectious diseases. Over the course of 2015, these committees have held 12 formal meetings and multiple informal meetings, with multiple actions under way. They have also held meetings with the affected people's platforms, in which their demands have been gathered and information given on what is done, how is done and why is done. In addition, we have participated with the ministry and other health services of the other autonomous communities in the problem of addressing this pathology. In our specific strategy there are four lines of action: study of the current magnitude of the infection; promotion of preventive measures to prevent the transmission of hepatitis C virus; therapeutic and clinical-assistance action plan; and promotion of communication with the general population and with the people affected. This strategy has, therefore, four furrows: one, which is the true dimension of the present situation, two, prevention measures, to prevent transmission, three to act, and four to break communication. Hepatitis C has been known since 1990; since then, Osakidetza has used different treatments of greater or lesser effectiveness, but we have certainly always treated the patients with the available therapeutic arsenal. The recent emergence of new antivirals has been a milestone in terms of cure possibilities and a challenge for health systems. But, since I am once again challenged by this topic, I would like to know, to learn, whether you know of any country in the world or any autonomous community where hepatitis C has been eradicated today or have treated all affected patients. Or if the communities in which he governs his political party have treated today what he asks of me: all the patients. To treat all affected patients in a short period of time, to eradicate hepatitis C, is not an economic issue, no matter how much you commit yourself, Mrs Roncal, and the test is that day by day it has not happened in any country in the world, nor in the poor, nor in the rich. It is necessary to know and recognize that treating all patients at the same time, or in a short period of time, starting from the magnitude of the affected hepatitis C, is inviable, because we do not have all the specialized health resources that are needed, besides being unwise due to the lack of experience; in fact, treatments are changing. And I'm not talking about economic resources, I'm talking about the availability of expert professionals, I'm talking about the number of consultations, controls, diagnostic tests, etc. Our goal is clear, to treat all patients with guarantee, with clinical safety, with close follow-up to a novel, complex treatment that changes month by month, with care quality, by experts and without neglecting to attend to the rest of the population or to the rest of the pathologies. Let's turn to the facts: Osakidetza, throughout 2015, has treated 1,533 patients with the new antivirals, has carried out tens of thousands of analytical consultations and diagnostic tests by specialists in digestive system and infectious diseases, all of them experts in hepatology, with clinical safety, monitoring the results and with a cost in drugs of 27 million euros. In other words, in 2015 two thirds of the patients known and surveyed in hospitals were treated at the time of defining the strategy, when the ministry requested the data and from Osakidetza the data were requested from the hospitals. Patients for whom the expert committee set up by the Ministry, experts, estimated a period of three years to complete the treatments, because they do not look like cancer at all – and you, as a doctor, know it – and have been treated here in twelve months, no doubt a clear reflection of the effort and commitment that both Osakidetza and the Department of Health and the Basque Government have with the people affected by this disease. In the twelve months the scientific groups of the state were treated two-thirds of the number set in three years as a purpose in the Eucradi, by restoring the most urgent patients. A 31 de mero de 2016, la semana, in the form ya 1.66 los pacentes cocodos. I believe that in the face of the evidence of the numbers, there are still attempts to sow distrust in the patients, distrust in the professionals who treat them and distrust in our health system, which we should defend among all. We are aware that all patients want to be treated as soon as possible, it is normal, it is so in any health problem. It's nothing new, but we're going to treat all patients with guarantee, clinical safety and agility since prioritization by medical criteria (I don't do it, Mrs. Roncal). Every time I have appeared in this House to talk about hepatitis C I have repeated that we are not, as it seems to be to be seen, facing a political problem, we are facing a health challenge and an opportunity where many patients with a serious disease will have an effective treatment that will improve their health, something unthinkable not long ago. C is not a political problem today, as some people would like, but a chance to reorganize the health system. Mrs Roncal, it is our responsibility to continue to address hepatitis C as a health problem, with rigour, responsibility, equity and organization, working for the people affected, supporting and making available resources to professionals, and also ensuring that the rest of the people who use the public health system and who are affected by other diseases are taken care of. As I think you know, this is what we have been dedicated to throughout the legislature and we hope to continue to do so for as long as it lasts.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u144	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u145	As always, Mr. Counsellor, we agree on something: it is true that it is your responsibility to treat all patients with hepatitis C. In that we do say you're right, it's your responsibility. But this Parliament wants you to treat everyone. And, of course, it tells us "We have already treated 1,666, two thirds of known patients"; therefore, I guess the missing third will be able to perform them, their treatments, will be able to offer them in 2016. Or not? Or aren't two-thirds the ones you've dealt with and you have many more left to deal with and theoretically you don't have a budget set aside for that? Tell us the truth. What's your strategy? I asked him the first time. What is your strategy for 2016? How much money do you have in 2016 to devote to the treatment of hepatitis C patients? And again I say what they say: they do not want their solidarity, they want treatment. They don't want solidarity. Solidarity, of friends, but of those responsible for health care want treatment, as is the obligation of these to offer them. We've told you more than once, it won't sound weird. I say again, how much money do you have? Tell us. Do you have only one third of the total group of patients left to be treated? You're only a third short? Hey, you wouldn't have any problem coming here to tell us "Quiet, Mrs. Roncal, we ended up in 2016 with all the patient group, we're all going to offer, since we couldn't since 2014, it cost us 2014, 2015 and 2016 to give treatment to everyone, but finally we're going to finish in 2016". It would be the best joy you could give me and by the way avoid me a motion resulting from interpellation. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u147	Mrs Roncal, as I see you have not heard me correctly, I will repeat to you: we have treated two thirds of the patients surveyed in hospitals at the time the strategy was made. It's not an economic problem. The budget of the Department of Health, together with the budget of the Basque Government, is approved by this Parliament. The budget proposal of the Department of Health and Osakidetza, contained in the budget proposal of the Basque Government as a whole, was approved both for the 2015 financial year and for the current one by a majority of this House. In both exercises, with your vote. In the presentation of the accounts I gave detailed information on the items dedicated to specific treatments, both in 2015 and 2016, in a committee where you were present. I cannot, however, fail to say that with the EUR 2 million that included an amendment from your political group in the 2016 Budgets, you do not cover what you are asking for, you do not cover what you are asking for. However, since it is not an economic problem, you have no doubt: we will treat everyone who needs it and we will treat all patients. But I'm going to repeat it again: hepatitis C is not an economic issue, it's a health challenge that requires strategy, organization and multiple resources, not just drugs; otherwise, I'll be happy to have you point me where it's been eradicated and where all the patients are treated. Don't come here with "I sell advice, which I don't have." We have attended, we are attending and we will continue to care for all people with hepatitis C in an adequate, equitable and medically-based manner. Review the books. Of the 1,533 patients treated during the past year, 17% corresponded to the historical territory of Araba, 56% to Bizkaia and 27% to Gipuzkoa. Of the patients treated with viral load, 12 weeks after completion of treatment, 94% were negative for the disease. We'll wait with the viral charges later. You read the books, they'll keep coming down. In the distribution of these patients due to their degree of hepatic impairment – a classification that has not been invented by this advisor, no scientist from this Autonomous Community even from the State – 84% were F-4, 6% were F-3, 4% were F-2 and the rest F-1 and F-0, which, according to medical criteria, have also been treated for comorbidities. As I explained in my first intervention, all patients have been treated according to the therapeutic action plans developed by the Clinical Assistance Committee, a committee that is not composed of politicians, Mrs Roncal, although you would like, but no, it is composed of specialists from the different medical disciplines involved in the treatment of hepatitis C and the different integrated service organizations of Osakidetza. This way of doing things, prioritizing by clinical criteria and with equity, with the aim of treating all patients, is something that Osakidetza professionals usually do in all kinds of pathologies, and hepatitis C is no exception. As for 2016, the Department of Health and Osakidetza have initiated a second phase of treatment, focusing on patients with F-3 fibrosis stage, already treated patients who have not adequately responded to prior treatment, and patients with low levels of hepatic fibrosis who have comorbidities. And we will also treat all new patients who are being diagnosed this year – because they will, yes, be diagnosed new, it is in all books – with these same criteria. Thus, the new therapeutic action plan will be the reference to be followed throughout this year, although as new drugs appear and are marketed, which will also appear, they will be incorporating Osakidetza. I conclude already, not without insisting on a fundamental characteristic of the strategy: equality in access to treatment of patients, clinical prioritization and the goal of treating everyone in the shortest possible time. In my view, these are the principles by which we must govern ourselves. We will continue to work on treating patients and you ask or make motions, it is in your right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-02-05.u148	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and fifty-seven.
