ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Quiet, please. All right, everybody, take your seats. First point in theme list: "To ask the question, "About the dimensions of the members of the Extra Plan. " Mr. Iturate, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u1	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr. President, Congressman, madam, good morning. On the 28th of January, more than 3000 workers on the edge of the border were changed, due to the general section of your department transferations in 2015, the general service contest, and the following services. During the law you have often shown that the structure of the border required deep changes in order to respond in a suitable manner to the reality and needs of the present day. That's how 2016 of the planet's horizon was established. During these three years of the legislature you have spoken to us on numerous occasions, Madam Counsellor, about a radical change in the organizational structure of the Ertzaintza. They developed an ambitious strategic plan, Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016, which has framed subsequent decisions in organizational and operational matters, including the above-mentioned change of structure. A change of structure aimed at adapting the functions of the Ertzaintza to a new time in which, after the threat of ETA and the need for protection and self-protection generated, the founding spirit of the Ertzaintza could be recovered: the spirit of an integral police, born of the people and of their will to self-government, for the people and nearby. A foundational spirit that must be adapted to the current security needs of Basque society in terms of proximity, investigation and police intelligence, from efficiency, efficiency and continuous improvement. Once the transfer competition has been completed, we again hear union voices that insist on the same issues of chaos and inefficiency that we listened to them before the elaboration of the same. You, on the other hand, Counsellor, who have been repeating themselves for time immemorial, and who have affected all the advisers who have preceded you in office. Voices that now also insist on the lack of resources, especially in the area of research, which was precisely one of the areas of improvement that his department wanted. In fact, yesterday we met with the news of a meeting of the Erne and ELA-Ertzaintza unions with the superior prosecutor of Euskadi, and the subsequent statements of the latter saying that he will ask the Department of Security for explanations on investigation in the Ertzaintza. He'll ask the Department of Security for an explanation. It would be surprising if it were not for Mr Calparsoro's well-known custom to wear an eleven-barred shirt on matters that are openly beyond his competence and which, therefore, I understand, should also escape from his occupations, unless we now discover that the Prosecutor's Office of the Basque Country has competence in matters of internal self-organization of the Ertzaintza or of the Government itself. Well, given the significance of the Ertzaintza transfer management, and the discordant voices that speak of deficiencies in certain services, counselor, we would like to answer the following questions: Can we already conclude the size of the different units of the Ertzaintza that was projected in the Strategic Plan Horizon 2016?, and has the department done in this foresight transfer competition enough to cover all the needs in the different units and services? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u2	Thank you, Mr. Iturate. You're welcome to answer the phone. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u3	The President, the President, the chief of departments, the members of the legislature. To begin with, I would like to point out that the senior prosecutor of the Basque Country has in his hand the possibility of transferring as many questions and consultations as possible to the working group for the coordination of the Judiciary, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions and the Police of the Basque Country; a coordination instrument that was created precisely at the request of the Judiciary and derived from the Basque General Public Security Plan. Moreover, in response to your question, in these three years we have actually made very important changes in the majority of the Ertzaintza units. Organizational changes and dimensioning, but above all of adapting to the characteristics and needs of the police model that responds to these security patterns defined in the Basque General Public Security Plan itself and also that Basque society demands. The assembly between the new police model established in the strategic plan of the Ertzaintza Horizonte 2016, and the organizational changes that this entails, is not always easy to communicate or to implement, but it is evident that it is an easy resource of trade union slogans. But organizational changes are already a consolidated reality in Ertzaintza: each unit has the dimension that has been considered necessary and appropriate for the services and functions it develops. With regard to the area of investigation that you asked me, three years ago 80% of the staff in the area of investigation were involved in collecting complaints and drawing up certificates, and only 20% (only 20%) were involved in the investigation of cases. This has now changed, and 50% of the ertzainas in the area of investigation are primarily involved in the investigation and prosecution of crime. This has enabled us to make a qualitative leap in the search for efficiency and quality of service, that service that Ertzaintza offers to Basque society in terms of preventing and reducing the crime rate, since research and the creation of more effective intelligence products. At this time, ninety researchers are being trained as experts, they have been trained as experts in eye inspections, which we believe is the basis for a good investigation, especially of the most serious crimes. Currently, in recent months, a course of training of researchers, specialization in research, is being developed at the Arkaute Academy. And a product of the transfer competition, and therefore of the free choice of the ertzainas to a job closer to their home, have generated some gaps, which is already in the process of solution. And it is in the process of solution because they are topics that were planned and analyzed, because the origin is well known: the prioritization of antiquity as a bar of maximum score when choosing the place. The efforts of the Department of Safety and Security are therefore focused on consolidating this police model, a model tailored to current security needs in terms of closer proximity, more prevention, and more prevention from investigation and police intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u4	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Second point on the subject list: "To ask the question, made by the Congressman of the New House of Earth Irandi EH, to match the president's parents' permits." My dear lady, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u5	"EH Collect wants to know whether, in the president's opinion, it is not time to match specific differences of parental permissions.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u6	Thank you, Mrs. New House. Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u7	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief officers, ladies and gentlemen, all good days. I'm sure it's all right, Mrs. New House, with the purpose you're talking about, and we're taking care of it, and we have to keep taking it. The donation has made proposals that way, and on the other hand we will present the strategy of increasing the investment in favor of families this month. The parliamentary officer accepted the legal proposal to start the steps, and I shall say, by the way, that the New House was the only vow against you. We're going to comply with the demands that we're going to do, and we're gonna ask the Spanish government to do the integrated reforms of permission. We are, therefore, Mrs Etxeberria, strongly in favour of equality, because it promotes a dual objective. First, parental co-responsibility from the time of birth, and in fact we have carried out an extension of the 2016 budget in this regard. Secondly, the inclusion and maintenance of women in the labour market on an equal basis with men, in line with Emakunde's proposal in its Sixth Equality Plan. (And, since I am talking about Emakunde, I also bring back the guide that Emakunde published already in 2008, "Men, equality and new masculinity", which I believe is a reference guide) And in this regard maternity and paternity leave are inserted within the framework of measures to promote the reconciliation of family and work life. And, as I told you in Basque, this month the government will present the proposal for an investment strategy for the family and children, a comprehensive response to move forward on objectives that we fully share. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u8	Thank you, Mr. President. My dear lady, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u9	Good morning again. Words, fun until now, didn't take the same step to match parental permits. There's a gulch coming from the words of fun today, and we're still saying that parent permissions are possible and that it's necessary to compare them. Do you know Thelma & Louise, and how they jump at the end of a huge abyss? Well, there's a gulch like that between the words and the actions of the funk. Words, I said, weren't taken a step up until now to match parental permissions, and I'm going to quote three evidence. It's the first thing you're talking about. The week past, we brought a precise and effective proposal to this parliamentary plan to run a pilot, in the course of a match for parental licenses, and the group that supports this government, PNV, shut down all the doors to this proposal. Second evidence: We're in the middle of the process, and up till now, it's gone no steps in this direction. And the third evidence: the law-propositation of the public employment. In this you propose to the officials to prolong their motherly permit for two weeks, and to prolong four days' leave of fatherhood. If the licenses go the way they stretch, they do, but not in the matching direction. So far he maintains the patriarchal logic of licenses. And in the meantime, next week you'll play a part of it, and you'll talk about how important it is to make a child's care and education, but the words are nothing but words, and the wind carries them away. And we continue to say that parental permissions are possible and necessary, and these should be of the same duration, imperturbable and paid to 100 percent. Because it is not only the care of women to look after children, because men are also to be involved in it, and because we need public policies, which give precedence to the care and welfare of persons, because we want them and need them. Besides, the effect of comparing parents permissions is further than the first months of children, for the roles which are established in the birth of children are subsequently won, but for children to-day the house is the first school of differences: they learn what they see. And there's so much talk about the shared watch in those days that don't protect the measures that will encourage the true watch share. Pairing parents permissions is possible and it is necessary. You have mentioned that you are to protect the political policy of the family, to strengthen them; but the present care system is not fair, and it is not bearable, especially because it rests on the authority of motherhood and the paternal policy of association. The politics of the culture, above all, are based on the means of reducing the work, or of taking claims, and above all on women's guidance. Thus the women go home, partially or entirely. The women are 92% of the users of these scholarships. The politics of the apparatus must therefore be made, but in the common community, and modern policies are excasements, and they are wrong in their direction because they strengthen the traditional distribution and leave it on women's shoulders. For this reason public policies must be made, yes, but in a new direction, and in this new direction it seems to us that parent permissions are an important piece. We know the results of old politics. It's time for a new policy to start, and it's on the roof of fun.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u10	Thank you, Mrs. New House. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. The New House, Mrs., the word and the saga weren't making any progress, and you're talking about evidence. And you plan with the evidence that you're involved in contact. Well, because of the compromise, I'd ask you for the evidence, which Mrs. Arritalga said to you last week's evidence, in this discussion we had last week's evidence, what was your attitude to be able to get along: Compositing. And so it was impossible for him to agree with what you had proposed. We have a strategy to keep moving in the circle of our jurisdictions. This is a purpose of the whole community, and we will continue to promote the change of culture. Our goal is to achieve integrated birth, adoption permissions and reception reforms. Mrs Etxeberria, equality is moving clearly from the framework of action, from the framework that each of us has. We cannot ignore the basic legislation, and in this respect we demand the necessary competence in the field of social security to adopt measures of a general nature. And our Government has, yes, passed the Public Employment Bill, proposing measures in the area of family and work conciliation. And I would like to recall that the permit regime has been agreed with the unions since 2010, and now we are going to present the first plan for equality in the General Administration, including measures in the area of conciliation. We are aware that we must still avoid any discrimination with the private sector. Therefore, a general framework, as well as non-discrimination of the public service with the private sector. We do not only plan this in public, but the measures for equality and equality must therefore be strengthened in the private country. Hence we shall also encourage the compacts of social agents, and consequently, within the limits of government, we are proposing, as it were, to facilitate the conjunction of the work-ground, to measure and propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Third point in theme list: "The question was asked by Mien Galastegui Oyarzábal, a member of the Social Council, a member of the Social Council, a match between the Athl of Bilbo and Olympique of Marseilles." Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u13	All right. Thank you very much, President. Good morning, lehendakari, counselors, counselor, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the first thing I want to do is to give our absolute revulsion to the provocateurs who use peaceful citizens to blow up public acts. And it is worth this repulse for the extremists of other lands and for those of our own, the autochthonous, who always find excuses and paid ground to manifest and justify their violence. Let us also go ahead with our solidarity with the Bilbaos who had to suffer from these energetics, and with the merchants and hoteliers who were affected and who cared for those who were being assaulted or threatened, even compromising their own integrity. And above all, our solidarity goes to the agents of Ertzaintza, who were once again overtaken by clearly insufficient planning, which jeopardized the safety of citizens and their own. And, counselor, I regret to say this, but it is recurrent this complaint from security professionals, as it is recurrent also that the organization of certain devices not only does not fix situations, but ends up producing and causing other damage. A year ago today we were asking him the same question on account of the altercations they suffered in Vitoria on the anniversary of March 3. Before it had been the World Forum, and before it had been another football game, specifically the Euskadi-Bolivia. But your department's answer, counselor, has always been the same: that everything was fine. And that is an assertion, in our opinion, against all evidence. And we can't give it all in fact, because if we gave it in fact we wouldn't be here asking a rhetorical question, or waiting for an answer that was nothing but nothing or nothing. That is why, since reality is also silly, we have to insist, and what we are going to ask you again is what measures you will take to ensure the public safety of Basque citizens and to prevent such incidents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u14	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u15	Thank you, ma'am. Look, Mrs Gallastegui, the commission against violence in sport and xenophobic and racist attitudes declared the Athletic and Marseilles party at high risk, just a few days before the Department of Security's own Gambling and Entertainment Directorate launched a campaign to raise awareness against violence in sport, a campaign that counted on the approval and support and also the explicit commitment of the 17 first and second football clubs and the three Basque basketball clubs that are in the ACB. Between 19 and 28 February, just coinciding with the fact that all clubs played at home, 205,000 diptics were distributed with the decalogue of good practices; we broadcast spots on video-markers, on television; we broadcast radio wedges, press announcements, posters... Anyway, the campaign was going on. The aim of the campaign was, above all, to highlight personal responsibility for violent behaviour and attitudes in sport. I was asking you, Mrs Gallastegui, what steps the Department of Security is going to take to ensure the public safety of citizens in order to avoid such incidents. Well, look, especially preventive measures. That is the way in which we must insist from all areas, also from the police operations in football matches, and that is what the Ertzaintza always tries to: prevent to avoid. And we will continue in that line of work: to raise awareness to prevent, and to prevent, to avoid.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u16	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u17	Yeah. Let's see, counselor, I'm with you, I really like prophylaxis, but the obvious thing is that you haven't answered me, because actually what's clear is that the forecast made by the Ertzaintza commands of what was going to happen absolutely failed. And they didn't predict what they had to predict, what was predictable for everyone. And there is one thing that attracts attention, and that is that we have a story of what happened precisely because there were people, there were journalists who were seeing it, there were people who were seeing it. There is a journalistic account of professionals who were on the appointment of Doña Casilda Park and who accompanied the provocateurs to the Indautxu area. There was no ERTZAINA accompanying it there. None. We have also seen millions of images of how in Doctor Areilza Street, in front of the outpatient clinic, there are groups facing each other, throwing chairs from the terraces, and travelers who have to take refuge in the bars. And there's not a single ertzaine. There is graphic evidence on Rodriguez Arias Street, San Mamés Road, where workers at a restaurant have to rescue a person who was being assaulted. And there's not a single ertzaine there. We only see that there are a lot of ertzainas, yes, a huge police deployment, in the vicinity of San Mamés, but throughout the journey, that everyone sees, how are we guaranteeing the security of the citizenry walking the street? That there's a moped of energums? Obviously, we know that, but his job, he advised, is to control those energums so that the rest of the people who go down the street can go with some certainty and without thinking that they will fall on them, so the stool of a bar, for example. The question that all citizens ask is how you can afford it, how you can allow acorn animals of this caliber to walk loose on the street, and the Ertzaintza is not controlling that. There were 144 members of the Ertzaintza, if I'm not mistaken, counselor, on the street...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u18	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui... Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u19	Mrs Gallastegui, on the basis of your question, and of the questions I am going to answer today in this monitoring session, it seems that the whole issue of violence in sport focuses exclusively (and I say exclusively) on the control of public order. On Thursday the Ertzaintza more than doubled the number of security agents in this high-risk party. The security plan was prepared well in advance, with conflicting information and professional judgement, both in terms of prevention and enforcement. The officers, with their leaders in the front, on the street, carried out the task entrusted and planned. But it's true, it's true, some, only some of the fans of the Olympique de Marseille and the Athletic who wanted to hit each other got hit. In a short space of time they met and tried to set up a campal battle, which the performance of the Ertzaintza avoided. The performance of the Ertzaintza avoided. Then there were ertzainas. And we will continue to work to improve our services, of course, but I ask: what will you do and who will you do, what will you do so that this minority part of the hobby will stop encouraging, planning and exercising violence in this way? And this is the reflection that I miss and that today we should worry a lot more. Why is the focus exclusively on police action, and not on how we should act to raise awareness of respect and education, to avoid such incidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u20	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Forth point on the theme list: "To ask the question, my own was made to the president by the parliamentary members of the Basque Society, a match between the Athlatics of Bilbo and the Olympique of Marseilles, and in the serious events of Bilbo's affair the Border had been published by Bilbo." Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u21	Thank you very much. Go ahead in advance the condemnation of the violent and our solidarity with the merchants, with the citizens and with the agents themselves who had to suffer the chaos that was Bilbao last Thursday. And it was chaos because the Interior Council wanted it to be chaos, because they knew perfectly well that, of the nearly 1,200 French fans who came, 300 were ultras. And they knew it, and here's the proof that they knew it. [[He showed us a paper.]] And yet, despite being considered a high-risk party and that the operation should have been of that kind, it was not done. It wasn't done. There was an express order not to act, not to use force, only and exclusively to use containment measures, and that meant defending oneself only if they attacked the agents themselves, not if they attacked the citizenry. And here's also how that appears in writing. (Paper beat erakutsi due.) This brought with it that the ultras camped to their widths, that containers were torn down, that chairs, tables, urban furniture, knives... , in the face of the look and inaction on the part of the agents. The citizens went through situations of fear, and wondered where the Ertzaintza was and why it did not act. In addition, in the stadium itself the caches were absolutely insufficient. This brought with it the introduction of flares, with the risk and the likely fine to the equipment, which also has to pay for the security that was deployed. Therefore, Mr Urkullu, last Thursday the safety of the citizens and of the agents themselves was put at risk; a deplorable image was given, a deplorable image of Bilbao and a deplorable image of Ertzaintza itself, a group of men and women absolutely capable, professional, but who appeared as a playmobil police, as an overflowing, outdated police. And all this because of how it is managed and how it is directed, which is in a bad way. And it's not new, Mrs. Gallastegi told you here. It's raining on wet. You first appeared in Anoeta with incidents and wounded agents, passed in Vitoria, passed at the Economic Forum. In all of them the police appear absolutely overwhelmed, without acting, giving an image that is not the one that corresponds to the merit of a police officer who has won it to his wrist during all these years. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr Lehendakari, what assessment you deserve from the organisation of last week's operation. Do you think that, given the repetition of these matters, it is not time to take action? Don't you think it's time to reorder the department and replace its officials?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u22	Thank you, Miss Llanos. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u23	Thank you, ma'am. I don't know what the police have to look like for you. Or I do, Mrs. Llanos. Mrs Llanos, I am not going to be the one who remains important to Thursday's incidents in the hours leading up to the game. I put myself on the skin of the people who at that time suffered the harassment of the violent, and I know what they could suffer. It happened in Marseilles and it has happened again in Bilbao: some fans committed themselves to meeting, and a small group ended up in a provocative and violent attitude. You know that in such circumstances it is very difficult, when not impossible, to avoid incidents at a hundred percent. You know that. But the truth is that the mobile brigade vans deployed in the area and the direct operatives controlled the situation as soon as the incidents started. They were distributed in strategic locations, and at all times prevented the incidents from entering a spiral of action-reaction, with the risk of spreading these incidents to other locations in Bilbao and also of causing further damage to people. Mrs Llanos, if you did not insist so much on supporting the unions' thesis, without doing the slightest test of cotton, today you could certainly be appreciating that the situation was under control and that the planned police operation met one of its main objectives: to resolve risk situations in situ as quickly as possible, and thus avoid greater risks.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u24	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u25	It is a pity that you have not answered me, Mr Lehendakari, because it is really difficult to understand with someone for whom the solution of the problems is to distribute some diptychs; who not only was not there and did not know, therefore, the entity of the incidents, but that it also seems that he has not seen television, nor read a newspaper, not even worried about all the people, all the traders who passed fear, to worry about their situation. Because it's not really what I say, it's not what the unions say: it's what appeared in the media, and it's what the Bilbaos suffered. And they suffered for their ineptitude, counselor. Because of his ineptitude. Because you're the one who gets the best of the picture. And you say what image you want to give. The one that the ertzainas themselves want to give! What the ertzainas don't want is to feel ashamed and appear as a cop overwhelmed, disarrayed, who is not capable, when she would be, would be perfectly capable, if she had in front of a person and responsible capable. But they don't have them. And that's why my question was addressed to the lehendakari, because I think it's time... Because, besides this, it's how you've organized Ertzaintza. There is nothing more to see than union unanimity and protests every day. To you, just as the force of custom makes it seem normal, but it is not normal. It is not normal for them to have been at Parliament's door for two years. That's why I was asking the lehendakari, because I sincerely believe that you have to recompose the department from above, starting with you, which, if you don't resign, should cease. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u26	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u27	Well, a little peace of mind too, to discuss these issues, it is necessary in Parliament. We know what happened, Mrs. Llanos. We know what happened, when, how and why. Magnifying a minute of images and exaggerating what happened won't make what didn't happen, however much you insist. But, I insist, I sympathize with the people who suffered the harassment of the violent. It's unpleasant, and above all it's dangerous. Everything would be simpler if the conclusions were face or cross: face, everything was fine, and point; and cross, there was neither foresight, nor ability to react, nor criterion of action, and point, again to begin. But that is not the case, neither in this profession nor in many others. And I'm going to give you a dice. On 7 January 2016 (I repeat, on 7 January) the prefect of Marseilles, the Chief of Staff of Public Security, the commander-in-chief, a member of the Intelligence Service, two commissioners of the prefecture's office, the Marseilles police station, two representatives of the Marseilles club and two representatives of the Athletic, and there was the Ertzaintza. From there, and especially after the incidents of the party of departure in Marseilles, the transfer of information has been constant, as it could not be otherwise. The Ertzaintza has a long tradition, indeed, in these matters. As a counselor, I will continue to encourage them and also demand that they improve as much as possible all the results, all the security services we have to cover. Avoiding everything, in any incident or altercation, especially when there is no explicit will by the parties to cause and cause damage, is very difficult, and you know it. From there to treating the Ertzaintza as the cause of what happened, I sincerely believe, Mrs Llanos, that that is a great injustice, however much you want to clothe it with whatever you want to clothe it. An injustice. The Ertzaintza acted with planning, proportionality and professionalism.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u28	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Five point in theme list: "The question is, that Gorka Maniero Labay's Mistto, a member of the U.UPyD team, was arranged to ensure the safety of the football division between the Combats and the Olympiques of Marseilles." Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u29	Thank you, President. Thank you for your kindness. Good morning, all of you, counselors, Mr. lehendakari. A friend of mine, I think, sums up perfectly well the situation of the Ertzaintza and the changes that have taken place since you, Madam Counsellor, are a counselor. I think he sums it up perfectly well: everything that worked badly still works badly, and everything that worked well now works badly. This is the summary of the situation in which the Ertzaintza finds itself, thanks to its ineptitude and its inability to direct it. We have a police force in a permanent trade union conflict; a police force that feels unable, due to lack of material, to deal with the jihadist threat; a police force with serious internal management problems, as demonstrated in organizing trade union elections, in the management of diets or with the commissions of service, and a police force that has one of its main strategic areas, that of investigation, totally decapitalized by lack of material and human resources. Madam Counsellor, altering certain events may, unfortunately, be too common. The problem is that in Euskadi what is already commonplace is the inability of Ertzaintza to deal with these clashes and to guarantee the safety of the citizens. The work of the Ertzaintza, counselor, is not to raise awareness of the ultras, but to protect Basque citizens. It is not to educate the mad people who come from outside to mount jail inside, but to guarantee the safety of the Basque citizens. That is what you have to guarantee and what you have not guaranteed so far. So, finally, the question was rhetorical: I was asking you if you considered the planning of Ertzaintza to be the right one. Obviously not, in view of the results. Therefore, the question I ask you is whether you are actually going to cease the director of the Ertzaintza, because of your manifest inability.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u31	Thank you. I have read the arguments you put forward in your question, Mr Maneiro, and from that question it could be deduced that, as some 300 rioters were predicted, we would have had to put so many more ERTZAINAS, and if I had predicted a thousand, then a thousand. But this you know obviously doesn't work that way. After many hours of analysis, work, decision-making, police officers assigned more than 160 officers to the security plan, from the arrival of the Marseilles hobby to the early hours of the afternoon, and about two hundred officers from three in the afternoon until the end of the game. They also provided, both in the morning and in the afternoon, reinforcements of citizen security, information agents, three French agents specialists in this type of events, a lot of private security personnel (more than three hundred hired by the Athletic) to control the accesses and also the interior of San Mamés, and twenty-four more who accompanied the Marseille hobby displaced with the Olympique. The party was of high risk, motivated by the background of the party of departure in Marseilles, and the security plan organized for the purpose in Bilbao was proportional, much broader, more planned, more continuous than usual in the first football matches, Mr Maneiro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u32	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u33	Counselor, you explain to me what the planning was, and I ask you about the result of that planning, what was the result of that planning. An absolute disaster, and the insecurity of Basque citizens. And it's not the first time it's happened, it's already several times, which shows the inability of you and the director of the Ertzaintza to run it properly. And, therefore, I ask your cessation, your cessation, for your manifest incapacity demonstrated during all these years. Your resignation has already been requested by several unions; I too am asking you here today. Look, counselor, we don't want you trying to raise awareness or educate the ultras that come from outside; that's quite complicated, and it's not your job. Nor do we want him to show his solidarity with the Basque citizens. We want you to guarantee your safety. You are the advisor to the Department of Security; therefore, that is your main task, just what you don't do. Erne told us: the device was clearly insufficient, there was a history, the party was high-risk, they were warned, and the Olympique is the club that has the most ultras among its fans from all over Europe. They were on notice; however, they acted in an absolutely unfortunate manner. They applied the policy of the director of Ertzaintza: "Better to do nothing". The problem of not doing anything is that some time will happen again unfortunate situations that we have suffered in Euskadi, because of their incompetence and because of the incompetence of the director of Ertzaintza. That is why I ask you to resign, because you do not do the work you are entrusted with: to ensure the safety of the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u34	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u35	I'm going to keep insisting, Mr. Maneiro. The pre- and post-Thursday 25th security plan in San Mamés was what police and security officials considered proportional to the event and its circumstances. And also the execution, the police action on the facts, was proportional and effective, which avoided much more than what happened. But, if you want me to tell you the truth, I also don't think that you or I would be able to measure or quantify, or even qualify how much more and how much more serious the facts would have been if those who wanted to confront and beat themselves had not had the police control they had. The facts of that day... You were like, "What are the results?". I'm going to tell you: one person was injured by the impact of a bottle, three ertzainas suffered minor injuries, we know that already after the match ended another person (at ten and a half) reported a cut wound to the knee. There were no destructions of consideration in urban furniture. They did dump a container of solid waste on María Díaz de Haro Street, which affected the rearview mirror of a vehicle; they fractured the window of a trade on Doctor Areilza Street, and four bars suffered damage to the exterior furniture on Rodriguez Arias Street. These are the complaints we've had. These are the allegations that we have recorded in relation to those incidents. I also remind you that five followers of Marseilles were arrested. Moreover, the Marseilles hobby that day made noise, a lot of noise (sudden songs, flares, traffic cuts for crowds, things that obviously bother, and bother a lot), but the truth is that a lot of those 1,200 amateurs who arrived from Marseille to Bilbao came to have a good time, to enjoy with their team, to enjoy the city as well. And so they did. They enjoyed the city, the city that, to say the least, welcomed them, and the Ertzaintza also took care of the safety of those 1,200 people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u36	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia anderea. Number of points in theme list: "Interpelation, made of the members of the EH Collectors' Armorage Under the Belsen Rock, to the President, the measures to resist the general Pre-prefect." Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u37	We've heard recently that the economic situation is improving, but as they say in the interpellation, the public care is different. Thus, again and again, are expressed by the polls and investigations which are performed: employment and employment are the chief concern. And it's logical: behind the stage, behind the cold facts, there are people, and what these people often live is a drama. Thus, to encourage employment, and to have it of quality in words, is at least the priority of all things, in comparison of the improvement of the state. But it is plain that the promotement of employment, and its quality, have a direct relation to public policies, or to those which are not made. For the pretty things that are done in different parts affect the state of employment, as well as those which are made in the employment world, and those which relate to the production model, to the commerce of labour, and to the collective negotiations, or to those of economic deliberations which are received. Hence it follows, that our interference is about to end the legislation, what has been done and where we are, what challenges are, and above all what is to be done. Moreover, we have recently heard that in the next eight-10 years, it is probable, that for the most part, the quality of these employments depends greatly on public politics. And the facts show that the public is right when he tells us that his chief concern is business and business, and that there are many reasons to worry about, and that fun should appreciate it. Reality is not tender; on the one hand, unemployment remains, and behind this reality, as has been said before, there are many persons who have the full names, some of whom, for more than two years, have been engaged in unemployment, no longer receive any employments, but are almost 60 percent of labour, and in the younger case there are almost forty percent of unemployment. Besides, at the end of the year 2015, all the people in 51,500 homes are unemployed more than 6,6% of the year before. These 43% of unexploded women appear on the scene of EZAZAGAUUU. They've been unemployment for more than two years. And, on the other hand, the employments that are produced are more and more premier, and it is becoming customary to make contracts which have been paid less than a few hours. The forms of work have greatly damaged the sphere of work, and have distorted the conditions of labour by increasing its predominance. It is an example of this fact, that, in addition to the fact, there are 93% provisional contracts which have been made for the last few months; that half of the contracts should last less than a month; from 10 to 9.3 months of contract; that partial contracts to a limited time should rise to nearly 40%; and these are the most feminine %67,6% of partial contracts. These are examples of predominance, which is not generally chosen in most cases, with the consequences which it afterwards follows, and also in pensions, for instance, diseases, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. The result of the work-form is that there are more and more workers left without conviction. Only 21% of those working people have labor agreements up to date. As the price of life is rising, wages have been maintained or lowered, more than 10% have been reduced since the crisis began. It is more than ever the rift between women and men's soles: The difference has gone up from 2008 to 3 points. As has been said before, Mr. Urkullu, the results of public policies, whether they are or are not, are in a great degree correct. It's only to put a few examples in order to realize it, as well as that. Thousands of jobs in public services have been lost in recent years (at least 3,000 members of the community, in education 1600). The wages have been frozen and reduced, and the needs of work have gone wrong. What's going on in public contract? We have the legislative of the people in the legislature, which this government does not approve, and which has placed all obstacles in it. Why? Like so far, saving money, so you're pushing premium with public money. Do you remember, do you remember five of the people who collect five bucks an hour, who work for 12 hours without rights, without the labor contract in the country? These too are public politicians. They are public policies, too, to promote and maintain employment by effective policies. But what has been done? Plans and plans, even propaganda, but reality tells us that they're not adequate and that they're not enough, because they're a witness to it. And where are the formation, orientation, mediation, or inclusion to be directed by profession? I've mentioned the forms of work, the labor agreements, and the collective negotiation. What has been done, for instance, to face the form of work? Did you take a little step? No. Worse still, the patrician who defends it is given without condition protection. And what happens in the industry? What about research, development and innovation? A lot of propaganda, too, but few results. The average and small companies were protected, unable to reach the average of one European in the research, and in the final collapse of the past few years. These are the public policies which you are making in this legislation, and with which, at least, we see that unemployment, poverty, and poverty will be preserved and increased. Haseran aipatu dut eabaki ekonomiko-finantzieroek was ondorio zuzena dutela erealidade honetan, éta esan nahi ditta, lehendakari jauna, arta mandiz irakuri ditugula e arritura mandiz hartu dugula zuk astelehenean adierazitakoa emandako hitzaldi batan ("Euskadi Basque Country 2020 generation"). Besteak beast, horrelakoak irakurri ditugu: "Urkullu calls on the European Union to rethink its austerity policy". This policy "suffers us", and can make 2017 "budgetarily for the Basque government the most difficult year since the crisis began. There will be more demands for social policies, more and more demands on debt limits and deficit compliance, and all with fewer resources." We need financial capacity for strategic and innovation projects; he considers the EUR 11 million available for innovation to be insufficient, and he talks about the need for a fund for it. Deficilitating, using the power of punishing, creating the foundation for strategic projects, is what we have heard, after your speech. So, welcome, Mr. Urkullu, defends EH Collect for your purpose. It is indispensable to change and overcome the public policies which are now in existence. We're clear. So far, at least, you have said and done another thing, and we have plain examples of what you mentioned in the discussion of politics (in which the principal object was to direct the principles of stability, and the final goal, the end of employment being the last of the three goals of the subpoenas, the jobar;) or you even disputed in defence of the former, of this defence which your party had made. I said that it is essential to change public policies to promote quality employment and end up with prevariet. This people, too, has the capacity for increasing and strengthening powerful public policies, which is the purpose of this interpelation. We want to know how big it's ready to go to the general state of work, considering that what's done so far hasn't succeeded in improving the state of unemployment and the quality of the job, and even more, it's just predominance that's what we've got today.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u39	The head of the table, the President, the chief of the departments, the members of the legislature, good morning. I believe that we have discussed this government, and above all its own occurrences, more than once, not only by creating employment, but also of quality. We've always stressed that out. As of a month, when the weather was over, we gave all the facts about jobs: on the one hand, optimistic, because the recovery of the job is stablely, but it goes there; and on the other hand, critical, because it is often unstable and poor. I agree with you, Mrs. Arrido. we express this uneasiness over and over again, and this quality recovery is our will and will, like yours. But there are many external factors that transcend our will. When this government's "banded band" uses an expression from my country, it's caused by many factors outside of it under the conditions of work. You know the factors yourself, but I'll put them back in answer to your question. One of the elements which have a remarkable influence on the predominance of the work is that the law, which has been rejected by this government for many parties of its own, has enabled them to seize the extreme measures for those who employ it. The current labour legislation, which is the competence of the State, therefore allows contractual arrangements that lack stability and duration over time, which in turn creates insecurity and lack of certainty in workers. If this lack of stability and duration is compounded by the decline in the conventions and the critical situation facing many of the companies in our industrial fabric, we are faced with a situation that we do not want and therefore want to address urgently and possibly. But it is clear that this Government has its limitations, also of a legal nature. Labour legislation is the exclusive competence of the State, as established by the Constitution, while the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community is limited to its execution. You know, Mrs Arrondo, that within our own competence we develop all the programmes that are within our reach to encourage job creation; that we seek conditions that improve quality employment, multi-annual programmes that include local and regional plans, first opportunities for young people with contracts, practices, incentive to hire more than forty-five years old. I will make a mention of the Employment Plan 2014-2016, which has meant (it is assuming) an investment of 775 million euros committed in these three years, which complements an economic recovery plan of 5.7 billion euros. The objective of the economic recovery and employment plan will involve achieving, or trying to achieve, at least 32,000 encouraged jobs. We know from what I have explained to this Parliament on several occasions that this employment plan includes six lines of action: promoting the local and regional economy, supporting entrepreneurship, youth employment, employment training, employment integration programmes, and renewal programmes. As you know, it does not fall within our competence to establish changes in the regulations, as we would like, want and demand. On the other hand, I would also like to point out to you that non-compliance with labour recruitment regulations is not only a mechanism of precariousness, but is also a flagrant violation of existing regulations, and therefore persecutable and punishable. It is no less true that there are cases that come to be used – and in fact they are used – to achieve extreme contractual situations, as you yourself have said, taking advantage of states of necessity and in many cases defencelessness of the workers themselves, who do not go to the competent inspection bodies for fear of the loss of scarce but necessary income for many families. These situations are a fraud to both the legality (and moral) of work and social security, situations that must be fought through the facts, and I assure you that we do what we can, and that we are in it. But in order to limit this illegal, irresponsible, reprehensible and punishable action, it is only possible for this Government to act as an inspector, both on its own initiative and on the basis of any complaints that may be made to us. We have answered more than one parliamentary question in this regard, giving data on the inspection, sanctions and situations detected, which have been adequately answered by the labour administration, but in this case it is a question of tackling not precariousness, but illegal actions through the deployment of administrative authority. Madame Arrival, with other factors in deutozing the Government, but as an intermediary, the will of both parties in a legal scale exceeds the legal mark, the conditions between workers and corporations are confirmed. Contract formulas can be made into a collective negotiation. This puts boundaries in some extreme attitudes, and reduces the chief's capacity in the restrictions in the laws. But we must necessarily say that we must here also face great difficulties. The Government is not a part of private collective negotiations, its duty is to act as an intermediary between the parties, and to prolong the means of conversation in many ways in the Antagonic points of view, but when it cannot be done, Mme. In short, our work in this circle is to encourage and encourage social operatings, unions, and corporations, in such a way that we may obtain the agreements due to negotiation. We are acting, we are, and we know for years, we will not despair. It's hard, but it's not impossible. The Department of Police and Employments of Society is exercising this office, by means of a Forum, trying to push with it the points of contact with social and social legislators. But let us not deceive ourselves: The negotiation must be distributed among social motives, and you know their attitudes as well as theirs. For every compact is extremely difficult to make; for its differences are more sought by us than the points of compact. It's understandable, and understand the economic circumstances of the whole world, but we don't complain of anything but refusal, instead of common interests.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u40	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u41	You've repeated it all the time, Mr. Toña: we are either well or far better; we do what we can, and you are right in so many things, but we do what we can. And it's not enough. It's not enough, not at all. It is true that some unemployment has improved a little, but it is not enough, because the employment which arises is a very presidency. And that level of unemployment is slowly rising. For example, according to the latest data, I think about 200, about 250 more this month, right? If we keep this rate at this rate, we'll be in the same situation 10 years from now. That's why we say that unemployment is stabilizing. And you've explained the plan again, haven't you? And I'm sorry, but it's not credible. Start from home. You've answered from one point of view today, the Eplegus and the Polic society. I've made an interpolation to Mr. President, and I've spoken to him in general about the Prefect. Not only what is given in private, but also what is given within the house, which is given to public services. And therefore it is not credible that many things are said, because within the house there are opportunities of making other public policies, and they are not made. And I've mentioned social clauses, and I've mentioned the state and quality of public service workers, etc., etc., etc., etc. And that's why I don't think it's enough. For, as I have said, there are external factors, but there are some to say that the Australian police are good and must be fulfilled, or that, as Mr. President said, we ought to obey the rules of deficit, or that, if I do not, it must end on Monday, with the policy of exchange, because it stifles us and endangers the conditions of society for the future years. It's two different opinions that we've heard from the fun and the president's side until now and Monday, if that's the case. And that's what we were talking about. And we're not the only ones who say we're in the face of a serious problem, that we're in the face of the Prefect. I'd like to remind you, for instance, of the art team. The four people who were present signed in a private opinion saying: "They say we're getting out of economics, but, as so many people say, social crisis has only begun." And that's what we're talking about, that social crisis. And if we continue this way, and other measures are not taken in another direction, making other public policies, this social crisis will be more serious for the next few years. And that's what we're talking about. You mentioned collective negotiation, the form of work. It is clear that the form of work has placed a further obstacle in this road, both in oppositions, and in private. Yeah, but it didn't take the slightest step to do anything else, even in public contracts. So he can't always look out, leave things to others. We have to start from home, and we're talking about it. And since the beginning of legislation we have had one thing clear, and it is certain that the necessity of persons is the priority, and that those which are necessary should be made to support it. And not the contrary: the politics are there, we are commanded, sometimes from Madrid and sometimes from Brussels. And what do we do? Or aren't politics supposed to be reversed? Then we believe that politics ought to be adapted to the wants of men, and not to the reverse. And, well, today the president hasn't answered. We have seen him behave or not change his opinion in the statement of Monday. What has been said of Austerity, or Deficiency, are not here repeated in advance, and we hope to see them again when we bring other propositions here.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u43	Thank you, Madam. You always say the same thing, Mrs. Arrido. You're going to allow me to start a job in order to create quality employment, aren't you? And I'd like to remind you of what I've been doing this week. Euskadin's building a job. After 10 years, it's been a bad February month for jobs. Yes, in 2015, yes, in 2016, we've had a good February job, but it's bad, but it's a little short, like the President says. This data acquires a peculiar evidence. Besides, Spanish data has been bad. Other data: About a year ago, there were 70,000 people in the profession. Today is 154,000, which is almost 10 percent. It's not enough, but we're on our way. A month ago, the Department of Eplegus and Polic Society announced to the State Council that the beginning of a work process was 2020 Euscal Epleg strategy. We hope to end up in May. In this strategy, an organization is working, co-ordinated by the President, and the nearest range of government in the design strategy, such as technology, innovation, competition, Industries, Employments, Eplegus, Workes, Economics, and Presions, and General Educational Directors. Of course, we've talked to all the unions and corporations, and they'll all be willing to participate in this strategy. For this Government, employment remains one of the most worrying issues. Because of its widespread social impact, it is a top political priority, necessarily. But not only employment in quantity, but in quality employment, because the two issues cannot be separated. We know that it is still necessary to continue working on problems such as youth unemployment and that of the older population, with a serious risk of becoming a long-term unemployed population group which, far from diminishing, is chronicling in time and increasing in size. We know that this strategy must also be designed with the maximum social participation, with the contributions of the actors (to whom we have invited everyone) who have a greater knowledge of the reality and prospective of our labour market, and in particular of the foreseeable evolution of our productive sectors. In fact, at the table of social conversation, January 15th was agreed to dissect a new strategy and rumination when the first lack of strength was over and once the transfer of the active policies of the job was completed. In the compact referred to, some principles were agreed on to solve the process of reflection. I'll put six of them between me and them. Intelligent growth, bearable and inclusive. In the Euskaca to define its first-rate sectors and economic development vectors, to examine the strategic and operatic clabes, which are already determined in public plans, and which concern the scope of employment. Formation and education. Economy and corporate development. And the sixth, all the areas that will affect the future of employment. Inside the house, Mrs. Arrido, in public contract, we are doing our jobs, I know, not enough for you, we can do what we can right now. I was there yesterday talking about it with the affected ones. I repeat, all this, especially for our young men and for society in general, with the object of creating a social employment. So it's very important that in the definition of strategy they partake of all the operators that improve the document.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u44	Mr. Toña, you're done, please. The seventh point on the theme list: "To ask the question, "Myria Llanos Gómez Basque Group Member of the Popula team for the president that Arnuldo is leaving the prison and about the events that have been arranged." Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u45	Good morning again. Mr Lehendakari, this Tuesday we witnessed what some would like it to look like the filming of the second part of the film "Invictus", in this case with Otegi on the role of Mandela, on the paper on his day played by Morgan Freeman. And I say that some would like it to look like it, because history is far, far from being the same in both cases. Because no one further from a man of peace than Otegi. Because, as much as he says it, as much as the abertzale environment repeats it over and over again, as much as some people put it on their tweets, Otegi is not a political prisoner. It's not. Or is that for you it is, Mr. Lehendakari? For the Basque Government, for you, Otegi has been a political prisoner? Because that is the first issue that should be clarified, because that affects, and greatly affects, the action of your Government in this regard. Because the Basque Government has said that it advocates a standardized incorporation of Otegi into political life. What is a normalized incorporation for you, that the disqualification sentence is over? Because we must not forget – although some, including you, Mr Urkullu, want to do so – that you were not convicted for political reasons, you were not convicted for doing politics. He was sentenced to six and a half years for belonging to the armed gang, for trying to rebuild the illegal Batasuna, which was ratified by the European Court of Human Rights, which was part of ETA. It was recognized by Batasuna's own members to free themselves from prison. In addition, Otegi, far from being a man of peace, has behind him a terrorist past that some want to obviate, that terrorist past that ETB on its website calls "being on the other side of the trench." Do you think that's normal, Mr. Lehendakari? He was part of ETA for sixteen years. Among his exploits is the kidnapping of Luis Abaitua, for whom he was convicted. On the same day that he was released from prison, on 1 March, a few years earlier Mr.Abaitua had been released, but with a big difference: with Luis Abaitua, Otegi and his fellow terrorists played the Russian roulette, and they had him in a zulo, and when he left that zulo he was never the same. However, Otegi got out of prison exulting, and also saying that "there were those who said (we said) that they were being harassed." That information, that irony, ETB also obviated it. I, when I asked him the question, pointed out that the Basque Government had to be vigilant so that the release from prison would not become a heightening, a kind of tribute, and the truth is that it has been so. The treatment that ETB has given to the exit of Otegi is as if it were a historical event. They made specials in "In Jake", in "Azpimarra", in "Without going further", and ETB spoke fifteen minutes of the news. That's right, obviating at all times the reasons he'd been in jail. That is why I ask you: do you think this treatment is appropriate, Mr Lehendakari? Do you think Basque television should treat the news of Otegi's departure as if it were a hero's? Will it ensure that in the act of Anoeta there can be no rise in terrorism, and if so, does Ertzaintza prevent it?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u46	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u47	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, you have started with a series of opinions and also with a series of judgments of value on what I may think or think, when I have not spoken on this issue. In any case, what you put to me in the written question was what criteria the Basque Government will take to ensure that the release from prison of a terrorist prisoner does not become an act of exaltation of ETA terrorism, and this is also what you put to me in your last question. I am not going to go into other matters, and I simply say to you that the Basque Government is going to act on criteria of legality and common sense, Mrs Llanos. The delegation of the Spanish Government in Euskadi informed the Office of the National Court of the convening of the organized acts, claiming that they could constitute a crime of the exaltation of terrorism, and it was the Office of the Prosecutor and Judge Eloy Velasco who rejected the possibility of prohibiting the acts, arguing that they were festive or political acts, and that the fundamental right to assembly and demonstration must be guaranteed. I also remind you, Mrs Llanos, that the first event was held in Logroño, before the prison and the Civil Guard, without any problem. Look, in democracy, at the prediction you put forward of what the act might be in the Velodrome of Anoeta, in democracy an act organized by a party forms part of the exercise of the rights of expression and political participation, and this is the criterion of legality. And we also apply the criterion of common sense. I would invite you to appreciate if you want to continue to speak out on the events that other political parties are organizing. He has made reference to EITB, and EITB has made its professional decisions based on the news interest. Of the news interest. Proportionality is opinionable, and I too have my opinion on proportionality; now, it is clear that not only in EITB: we have seen the same images and heard the same words in all the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. Miss Llano, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u49	Mr Lehendakari, if you think you are a political prisoner, I ask the Lehendakari of the Basque Government, because that has a great impact on what the Basque Government is after and what the actions of EITB, which is dependent on the Basque Government, are. And EITB (you speak of common sense) devoted, in addition to time..., falsified, at no time did he say why he had been convicted, at no time. He said that for trying to form an abertzale party, when that is radically false. And you'll have to see what treatment you're being given, if there's any special connections next Saturday... I mean, like the man's arrival on the moon. I think it's absolutely biased. And ETB depends on the Basque Government. And it's not the same, it's not the same one treatment and another. And besides, it doesn't just depend on time, and you know it; it depends on how it is handled. And, as I say, besides obviating, belonging to ETA is called "being in the trench."
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u50	Thank you, Miss Llanos. In reply, Mr. President, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Llanos, I have already referred to the concept of political prisoners on previous occasions, I have also referred to the circumstances which may also affect certain claims, whether they seem fair to me or not. You make a criticism that ETB falsified, and you impute to me the alleged falsification of ETB for not saying what the sentence was to Arnaldo Otegi. Not to mention, is it fake? I think I have also heard Mr Otegi in the images reproduced by ETB, in what was also his mention, in the initial speech, of the harassed. Look, EITB responds from your programming, and you have forums in the control committee of this Parliament and in the board of directors to ask for all the explanations you need. You have justified your question here in a supposition, and I literally read what you say in the justification: "It seems that a tribute is being organized in the Velodrome of Anoeta", and "it seems that from Basque public television you will also make a special program about your release from prison". Well, you've built your question on this, Mrs. Llanos. Look, I would like to remind you that our Government's position responds to a genuine and real commitment to human rights. And it will apply two criteria: the law criteria and the good sense. The prosecutor and the judge have accepted these events by protecting the meeting and the rights of march. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u52	Thank you, Mr. President. The eighth point in the subject list: "Interrelation by Gloria Sánchez Martin, a member of the Special Socialists of the United States of Central Administration and Justice, in the general administrative administration of Euscal Autonomy in Erdigo." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u53	Thank you, President. The impetus for the start of the procedure for drawing up and approving the first equality plan for women and men in the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community is being achieved thanks to the commitment of my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists. The data sings a lot, and I'll tell you why. On 29 June 2014, at the request of my parliamentary group, on the Commission on Human Rights, Equality and Citizen Participation, two representatives of the Workers' Commissions in the General Administration of the Basque Government attended to expose the lack of momentum of the beginning of the development of the aforementioned equality plan, despite coming to claim it since early 2013. As a result of this initiative, and from a question also put by my group, this issue was included at the sectoral negotiating table of the Administration, with the aim of addressing the sharing of the working methodology for drawing up such a situational diagnosis with which the equality plan can subsequently be drawn up. That item was included in the agenda of the sectoral table of 22 July 2014. On 27 October of the same year, a compromise amendment was adopted to a non-legislative proposal submitted by my parliamentary group, which was signed by my group, the Socialist Group, the Basque Nationalist Group and the People's Group, and supported by the EH Bildu and UPyD groups. In the first point of the compromise amendment we tabled, it was pointed out that the Basque Parliament urged the Basque Government to speed up the process of negotiating with the trade union sections of the equality plan of the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community before 1 December, in order to have it completed as soon as possible. The Basque Parliament urges the Basque Government to take all this into account, and then, in order to comply with this GNP, Mr Erkoreka, you submitted on 4 December a proposal for a work programme for the preparation of this first equality plan, one day before your appearance, Mr Councilman, in that committee, and of the director of Emakunde. What a coincidence! At that appearance, the counselor thanked us for our concern, because its elaboration was an obligation and it was good that we should worry about its momentum and start. But then, Mr. Counselor, we have to make it effective, and to date they are carrying the speed, for their start, of a rheumatic turtle. The proposal submitted by you on 4 December 2014 set out four phases. A first phase of communication of this commitment to the elaboration of the equality plan; a second phase of prior diagnosis of the situation, on the working conditions of staff serving the General Administration from a gender perspective, and within them the following actions: the establishment of a joint technical commission composed of four representatives of the Administration and four of the trade unions, and then, depending on it, the establishment of a working group and the determination of the information to be taken into account in the collection of this information-analysis; and, finally, the preparation of the prior diagnosis of the situation on the working conditions of staff serving the General Administration. This diagnosis should finally be validated by the technical committee to draw up this first equality plan. And once that diagnosis has been completed, begin in a third phase the drafting of the draft equality plan, and in a fourth phase the negotiation of that equality plan. Well, ladies and gentlemen, fifteen months later, we are still in the second phase of this process, not yet completed. According to the timetable approved at the sectoral table and accepted by the adviser, Mr Erkoreka, the previous diagnosis should have been completed in the third quarter of 2015 (i.e. by September of last year at the most), and the start of the drafting of the equality plan had to be started and developed already during the fourth quarter of last year and during the first quarter of this year. That has not been the case, and the last meeting of the technical committee has been held so far on 14 December last year. And it's curious, they put the batteries back on our initiative. That is, we included the inquiry on Tuesday for today's plenary, and you presented at the last hour of Wednesday, March 2, at three o'clock in the afternoon, to the unions the first draft diagnosis. Six months later than foreseen in your initial calendar, and to tow. And they are convening the next meeting of the technical committee, after they have never met this year, for the next 11 March. And they present unilaterally, and without agreeing at the sectoral table, a new calendar, remodeled unilaterally this time by you, without passing through the sectoral table, and where they gather a timetable to realize, everything that has not been realized now, in two months, and that the negotiation is already begun in May 2016. And along with this calendar they accompany the first draft diagnosis. That is, they intend to do in two months what they have not done for a whole year. And in the first calendar you didn't plan the entire plan in two months! They had planned that this would be carried out for three quarters, so that it would be negotiated in the fourth quarter. I doubt that what has not been done in so many months can be done well in two months. And I wonder, what would have happened if we didn't present today's inquiry again? For I will tell you that the dream of the righteous would have fallen asleep. That's not serious, Mr. Erkoreka. Once and for all, I urge you to draw up the first equality plan in the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community, and to stop delaying, delaying and further delaying. Its elaboration is an obligation, and you know it, set out in article 45 of Law 3/2007, for the effective equality of women and men, which states the obligation to draw up such an equality plan in companies of more than 250 workers, which must be negotiated. This obligation is also reflected in article 40 of Law 4/2015 of 18 February 2015 and in the seventh additional provision of the Royal Legislative Decree of 30 October 2015 approving the consolidated text of the Basic Staff Regulations. Also in Article 73 of the Agreement regulating the working conditions of staff employed in the service of the administrations of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, and in Article 83 of the collective agreement on workers employed in the service of the State administration. In other words, the obligation is very clear and reflected in a multitude of rules. It does not need to highlight the importance of its development and compliance with the above-mentioned standards. And its great importance is also reflected in the different equality plans (the last, the sixth) between women and men in our Autonomous Community. Well, do it now, but well done. Its correct elaboration has great value. And therefore, since more than a year has passed since the adoption of the non-legislative proposal presented by our parliamentary group without having yet drawn up the plan, we ask you: What are the reasons why the parliamentary mandate calling for the elaboration of an equality plan in the general administration of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country has not been fulfilled?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u54	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. You're welcome to answer the phone, ma'am. Mr. Erkorek, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u55	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Sánchez, allow me to eat my speech by expressing my surprise, not by the interpellation you present – which of course you are free not only to present it, but to configure it as you wish – but by the specific terms in which you formulate it. In the written text that you submitted, which you registered in the House a few days ago, you concluded the explanatory part with a question that you literally said..., you asked or were literally interested in the reasons why the parliamentary mandate that calls for the elaboration of an equality plan for the general administration of the Basque Autonomous Community has not been fulfilled. It's a question that you literally reproduced here today. And I tell you to allow me to express my surprise at the wording because, first of all, no parliamentary mandate has been breached to date. None. To date, none. Then we'll see exactly what the terms of that one are. Indeed, he was talking about a date of 1 December to speed up the work, but he was talking about drawing up the plan as soon as possible. The shortest possible time that I, in that appearance to which you have referred, tried to determine how it could be materialized. Then I'll explain to you what we've done since then. Therefore, not only has no parliamentary mandate been breached... Of course, not that of November 27, 2014. That mandate, if you literally review the terms in which it is formulated, is not unfulfilled. But it is also necessary to highlight another fact, and it is true that for the first time there are legislative mandates that you have cited, dating back to 2007, and work commitments arising from working conditions agreements and collective agreements with the General Administration's workforce dating back to 2010. Since 2007, there have been different Governments, none of which have paid the least attention to this issue. None. Not a minute. It is therefore the first Government to initiate the steps towards the implementation of these legislative mandates, effectively reflected in the legal-positive rules in force since 2007, and of work commitments dating back to 2010. We're going to value what's in it! I thought that this had become quite clear in that appearance that took place on December 5, 2014, which took place, I think, in a climate of harmony, of willingness to cooperate on the part of all, and of willingness on my part to inform them fully of everything that had to do with the development of the work aimed at the elaboration of the plan. Therefore, there is no non-compliance, and there is an effective commitment. And I will indeed acknowledge the interest that you have shown in this matter since the beginning of the legislature. I recognize it, without ambiguities and without any doubt. I only ask you, in correspondence, to recognize also the work that is being carried out. That I am not developing it personally, but that it is developing a group, a group of public employees and staff representatives who are, I believe, developing meritorious work, worthy of applause and recognition by all, in relation to this matter. Indeed, in that appearance on December 5, 2014, which was requested by you, I presented a schedule of activities. Not only did I explain what the Government had done so far, but I presented a schedule of activities, pointing out what I was going to do at every moment to complete the work on the adoption of an equality plan. Well, at the time, I was talking about four phases. The first phase was to communicate the commitment of the Deputy Public Service Adviser to the development of this equality plan. A commitment which is, let us say, part of the protocols established with regard to the adoption of these equality plans and was essential to do so. A commitment to be developed during the first quarter of 2015. A second phase, which was to be developed during the first three quarters of 2015, aimed at developing the situation diagnosis. I would like to draw attention to the importance that not me, but the specialists in this field, attribute to the elaboration of a good diagnosis. Because an equality plan, which normally includes corrective measures, needs a good diagnosis, well-founded, well-nourished of contrasted, valued, well-analysed and substantiated data, with credible data, which clearly reflects the situation and the inequalities and sources of discrimination that occur between men and women in a given administrative organization. A third phase, which consisted of the actual elaboration of the plan, was also to be developed for three quarters. And finally a necessary, binding and essential period for the negotiation of the plan prepared previously with the trade union organizations. A negotiation that was to take place, according to this schedule, in the third quarter of 2016. It's still a few months before we can start this phase. What has been done since then? Well, a lot of things have been done since then. A lot of work has been done. When I say "many" I mean with dedication and intensity, and when I say "good" I mean that with rigor and seriousness. And at this time, I would also like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the work done and to congratulate and thank the people who, both in the technical committee and in the working groups, have been working in recent months to equip the Basque Government with an instrument to combat inequality that is truly effective, well-founded, that is modelled and that can serve as a reference for other administrative organizations, many of which are still pending the implementation of the legislative forecasts to which I have referred earlier. The first phase was completed without difficulty, in the first quarter of 2015. The second, that of the previous diagnosis, experienced modifications, but not on the proposal of this adviser: on the proposal of the same technical commission, composed of eight persons, four of whom are technical persons from the Directorate of Civil Service and the Directorate of Labour Relations, and four others from the representation of the staff. Four trade unions, therefore, and four public service technicians, with the secretarial work of a technical person also from these directorates. Well, the technical committee, whose work was to start in the third phase, asks, with the strength of the trade union representation, to monitor the process from the beginning, and demands to be set up since the first quarter of 2015. It therefore calls for changes to be made to the order of work, the timetable I have outlined, so that the work can be sponsored, directed, supported, promoted and monitored by that technical committee. Therefore, the establishment of the technical commission is advanced on 6 February 2015, and it is the technical commission of equal composition, with trade union representation, that monitors, promotes and designs the work. The technical commission has at its service the working groups, which is not one, are several, and work logically, at the request of the commission itself, producing reports, providing data, statistical work, contribution and specialized technical advice from equality technicians... The working groups meet, let us say, informally, because they have very different compositions, and there are no minutes that collect their meetings, but from the technical committee: it meets on 6 February, 3 March, 27 March, 22 June and 16 November, as far as the year 2015 is concerned. Several meetings, therefore, are recasting the work and the previously established planning. As you will understand, I have no intention of interfering with this work and of altering the order of action proposed by the technical committee, I insist, composed of specialized staff and staff representation. The technical commission proposes to incorporate two elements that were not included in the initial timetable into the elaboration process. First, the development of a specific course, designed ad hoc for staff who are developing equality plans (courses designed by Emakunde, which configures Emakunde, and are commissioned to a specialized and approved company and are conducted during the months of October and December 2015, in two sessions, one in October and the other in December), and a staff survey. A staff survey that is also conducted for two months at the request of the technical commission itself, and which yields an excellent result to incorporate into the diagnosis. At the moment the diagnosis is already prepared, I have it here, and we have started the process of socializing the diagnosis to refer it to all the bodies that can make allegations. The compromise to complete the work, even in advance of what is actually planned and what I am committed to before the committee, is total, it is absolute. The timetable will be fulfilled, and we will certainly get ahead of it. Therefore, we are working well, rigorously, and I congratulate those who are making it possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u56	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u57	Let us see, Mr Erkoreka, that the work has begun is obvious. I have already pointed out in my first speech that they are currently in the second phase, of the four planned. But I have also shown that in that calendar that was drawn up – and that it had not been corrected at all, nor ordered the modification until Wednesday this week, I repeat to you – in that first calendar, the phase of the diagnosis should have been completed by the fourth quarter of 2015. And we would already have to be making progress right now, since the fourth quarter of 2015, in drawing up the equality plan. And it should have been developed during this first quarter, and ending, as set out in that calendar, in the second quarter of this year. However, we are now, in March, where we had to be in September last year: the unions have just received the draft diagnosis. And I had been told that during the beginning of this year there had been a halt to this issue. In fact, you have shown that they were not meeting, since last year there were no meetings of the technical committee. And that's the way it is. And probably thanks to this initiative the momentum has been given again. I mean, it's been running again this week. The question is put on Tuesday to come to the plenary today, and this Wednesday, at three o'clock in the afternoon, the unions are sent the change in the timetable to run and arrive at the plenary with a new calendar, and to be able to say "No, it's that I already have here... I've remodeled the dates, and we're gonna finish it." What worries me – because I also attach importance to the correct elaboration of the plan – is that now in two months, in this new calendar, you see that you have put..., from February 11th to May 2016 you have to draw up the whole equality plan quickly and running, when in the first calendar for all its elaboration you had planned nine months, at all those stages that you have to fulfill in order to have the elaboration, before starting the fourth phase, which is the negotiation phase. But we're there! That's a reality! You guys introduced him on Wednesday at 3:00 p.m., and I have a record of that. Therefore, given the importance of the subject, what I ask you to do is to get to work, and to carry out the equality plan correctly. They already have the draft, yet with that they have to go through the stages of amendments, of approving that draft in the technical committee, to start drawing up the equality plan. So, do it right, and that it is drawn up correctly, because that equality plan is very important, which is also going to be the first of the General Administration. But do it now, don't let him sleep there again, and if in a few months... Because it took me a year! After that appearance, I waited more than a year to bring the issue back to the House! But, of course, when I am told that you have been paralysed for three months and since last year you are sleeping the dream of the righteous again, I come here and ask you again to please speed up the matter and do it properly, which is what was asked of you when the non-law proposal was passed in this Parliament too in the Human Rights Committee. So, therefore, I ask you to do it right, fill it properly, and do not skip the final negotiation phase, to see if by hurry now I bring it, prepare it quickly and running, and so that it is in two days or business, because I carry the plan already drafted and I skip the last phase to come here. That final stage is also very important, and it is an obligation also marked by regulation. That timetable must be worked out, and that timetable must be negotiated. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u58	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mr. Erkorek, to answer, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. President. Mrs Sánchez, in my first speech I have tried hard to try to convey the idea to you, it is well known that the changes made to date in the work schedule are all based on proposals made by the Technical Committee on Equality, a joint committee, composed of administrative technicians and workers' representatives, a trade union representation, which is aware of the work that is taking place on time. Work that is materially carried out by the working groups set up for this purpose, but the technical commission supervises, drives and monitors all the work. All the work. It is the technical commission that, among other things, proposes to enrich the process of formulating the diagnosis, carrying out actions that were not provided for in the initial timetable. Among other things a course, to which I have previously referred, which was essential, which was good, everyone considers it positive... Yes, yes, but while you are in the course you cannot be working at the same time, the technical commission, the people who are forming part of the technical commission and the union representation. Secondly, the technical committee itself decides that it would be positive to present a survey to the staff of the General Administration, and it proposes a survey that lasts two months and to which 330 people of the Administration respond, with very important contributions that are incorporated into the diagnosis. Sure, you tell me, "Accelerate, tighten." Of course, I have no intention of interfering with the reformulation proposals put forward by the technical committee with trade union representation, among others. If they consider it good to delay the work for a month, two months, three months, to incorporate new elements into the procedure that will contribute to enriching the work, of course I will not prevent it. Because it is they who have made these proposals. It is they who have made these proposals. If you tell me it was good to tell you that no, that it was preferable to tell you that no and that the survey was not carried out, then, well, say it here and make it clear, and let your interlocutors know about the union representation. But this was a proposal that came from the technical committee, it is not something that has been raised by this adviser or by his political nomination team! Not at all. I thought he was good. They have put a lot of emphasis (they, the specialists) on the importance of making a well-founded and well-founded diagnosis; they have therefore wanted the training of the people who are working on the development of the equality plan to be the best possible, and they have therefore wanted the data from that survey to which I have referred before to be incorporated as well. This starts from the technical committee itself, which has in time articulated the materialization of the procedure. And it is that same technical commission, and it is the working groups that provide advice, assistance and information and data of all kinds to feed the elaboration of the diagnosis, it is they who say, from a well-made diagnosis, beautifully elaborated, as it seems that this one has here, of 145 folios, that it is not improvised... This is not improvised overnight to respond to an inquiry that you have recorded today, no, this is not improvised. This is planned. Of course, it's that public employees have Christmas holidays, and from Christmas they start working, formulate the diagnosis and have their own calendars. This also does not need to be told to a person who knows the functioning of the public administration! And February 11 is a date that for the presentation of a diagnosis that has been working, among others, by technicians who have received specific training courses in this regard in December, as it is not a date excessively extended in time. I understand that you have to inflate the critical notes by exercising an interpellation from the opposition, but acknowledge that the work is being carried out rigorously, with support, with seriousness, with technical assistance, and that the time they (not me, they), the members of the technical commission and the working groups, believe that it would be enough to be able to present the plan certainly does not exceed, does not exceed what I announced in the appearance of the Equality Commission in December 2014. It won't get over it. We will be in time, we will be in time, and with rigorously elaborated work with the support of all parties, which is, I believe, what in this case, on this subject, was the common and shared objective. I thought it was on everyone's side. This is how it is, the commitment is effective, the diagnosis is already developed, the draft diagnosis, and it starts to process already. From here, experts say that the development of the plan and the identification of corrective measures to be taken is much simpler, because they are identified.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u60	Thank you, Mr. Erkorek. 9th point on the subject list: "To ask the question, Antonio Damborenea Basterrechea Eupula team members of Economics and Presence Department of Economy, ACB." Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u61	Thank you very much, Madam President. Counselor, we ask you the question you already know about the thread of what happens to ACB, which is no longer actually ACB, it is practically the whole Basque steel sector: it is ACB, it is Tubes, it is Nervacero..., it is all companies. And we were doing it specifically with regard to the BCA, what the Basque Government was doing... besides asking others to do it, what the Basque Government was doing. Between the question and today I received news that the Basque Government was doing something: the Basque Government was looking for an investor. In the Deia. I say the Deia will know a lot. And on the thread of that news, then, you start looking back a little bit what happened, and we find that in 2011 the Basque government sold its stake, the BBK sold its stake, and apparently – and I say apparently because we obviously don't have that documentation – what there was a guarantee that Arcelor was going to be open for five years. And those five years just happen to end in a month. And then Arcelor could decide if he was selling or closing. And – all this apparently, because all this was published five years ago in the press – the Basque government had a right to bribe. I say, apparently, because I don't know, but on the lines of the news coming out, and of these actions that the government is supposedly asking, the question we have to ask is, if you are really doing this, what the Basque Government is really doing. Because yesterday, in the debate we had about a non-law proposal, I was a little surprised when I said this and another spokesman from another group said that, man, how is it that it is published in a medium of communication something that had been agreed that it would be discreet! Well, I don't know the discretion exactly where it goes. I know that today, for example, Arcelor has been revalued by 60% on the stock market. I mean, it's not a company that goes so badly, nor a multinational that has so many losses. And that is why the question I have to ask you, apart from the generic question that I was asking you, is whether the Basque Government is considering the departure of the Mittal group, and what is being asked is to exercise that right that it supposedly has to then look for an investor, or vice versa, to act as an intermediary, as it comes in the news.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u62	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Chiefs and congressmen, good morning to all of you. Well, first of all, Mr. Damborenea, let me answer directly to what you were asking me in writing, and then we'll go to the following, if you like. The Basque Government has been working not now, but for quite a long time, intensively with the whole steel sector in different areas. And I'm going to tell you. Firstly, the continuous training of its workers, the improvement of costs from all points of view, the improvement in logistics, the development of new investments, above all to improve the energy efficiency of the different plants we have in Euskadi, the financing of all the R & D+i projects that have been presented. This has led to well-trained workers, efficient processes, processes that guarantee quality, and of course I would also like to recognize wage efforts on the part of workers. But this has not been enough, because we have found ourselves, on the one hand, with the fact that since the beginning of this parliamentary term in the state (and, by the way, Mr Damborenea, do not centrifuge responsibilities, the responsibility is there) an energy policy has been carried out which, instead of prioritising industrial development, among others of the steel industry, has come to work only with the reduction and disappearance of the tariff deficit. This has, in some way, led to the energy price of large consumers, such as the steel industry, being much higher than that of any other country that we can have in the European Union as a competitor, and you know it. And responsibility is unique to the State, but we have made proposals to improve it. They have never been attended, never, nor since September 2013 that we did the first, nor until last Tuesday that we did the last. In addition to this, Chinese dumping, which is causing both steel in Europe and that produced in all countries together, at prices below cost, is now taking place. And, despite all the improvements that have been made, I insist, with the help of the Government, but also of all the workers, it has led to the situation in which we find ourselves, not only in the ACB, where there is an ERE at the moment (temporary, but an ERE), but also in other companies. But on the specific energy issue, for which you asked, responsibility is where it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Lord Damboena, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u65	Madam Counsellor, the energy issue is cheaper, for, among other things, the pact that was made in Madrid with you in the new law regulating energy. It is cheaper than when the Basque government sold its stake in the ACB. Cheaper, much cheaper. So don't give me the excuse for the electricity issue. And I asked you again, and you said to me, "The Basque Government has done a lot of things." I am not going to tell you that you have done nothing; what is clear and obvious to everyone is that they have been insufficient. They will have done many things, but, well, it seems that success has been scarce, at least so that the competitiveness of our companies is better, or viable. And I'm going to tell you why the energy issue is false: because the workers themselves told us here that they are able to make coils cheaper than the Germans. So, that's not the problem. And the question I asked you at the beginning, and I'm going to ask you again now, is whether it is true that, after the deadline, Arcelor can close the plant, as you agreed.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u66	Thank you, Mr. Damborena. Time is up. Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u67	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. If we go for sale, Mr Damborenea, it was five years ago, and, well, you were actually putting up with that government. Therefore, you have to know all the details. However, it is true that it expires on April 1, 2016; however, the talks held with ACB... Excuse me, with ArcelorMittal, let's say that's not going to be a reality. That is, the plant is not going to be sold (there is no will to sell), nor is it going to be closed. That's what we've been told. So, I think there's no place. How's the tanteo law? The right of tanteo exists, provided that there is a will on the part of ArcelorMittal to sell, which does not exist at this time. Therefore, if it existed, if it occurred, we would put ourselves in that scenario to which you referred that appears in Deia. But we're not on that stage right now. There is, but we're not on that stage. Secondly, please do not attempt to confuse anyone with the issue of electric tolls, the reduction of which has been achieved. We were in a situation where consumers who were connected to 30 kilovolts (not ACB, which was connected to 220) were paying 100 million euros more, in the whole of Euskadi, than the neighbours of Cantabria, La Rioja or others. We have managed to lower 50 of those 100; still the industry pays 50 more. And ACB has nothing to do with it. ACB is linked to an invoice in which the extra costs (e.g. coal, insularity and so on) are affecting, and are being charged different rates. It was not affected by the tolls, it was affected by the interruptibility, which her Government did not want to attend to either.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. The tenth point in the subject list: "I'm asking you about the potential fusion between Games and Siemensen and the future of the determination of Games." Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u69	Hello, good morning, everyone. Many of the Basque companies have moved their decision or their administrative structure outside the Basque Country in recent years, owing to the whole or partial sale of capital. In other cases, the entry of the outer capital has shaken the future connection with the hundred productive in it, although at the present moment the decision remains. This process of flight of decision has touched all the sectors of the economy (others, services, banks, technology or industry). To give some examples, we may mention BBVA, Axius Echeverría, Ibermática, Cematus Lemone, or Sidenor, or others. The decision of going abroad weakens the attachment of the country, and compromises the connection of its providers by weakening a hundred productive Basques. For too often the factory, the productive centers, or the keeping of employment, becomes secondary ends when the decisions are taken too far away. Moreover, the delocation of determination opens the door to the management criteria which are remote from the reality of the productive structure here, which may have serious consequences. It is a clear example of this that the present state of the ACB is now suffering, and in a great measure connected to the want of the multinational Arcelor. This is the context that we've met with about the fusion between the Games and the Sieves, or the new one that Siemens wants to buy Games. Considering the precedents above mentioned, and knowing that the greatest Esscal industry is a part of the world, when compared with the South, when the stocks are to be arranged, we believe that this company is extremely important in keeping its production and its decisions in the Basque Country. Therefore we ask the chief physician this question: Is he doing a job to maintain his decision in the Basque Country, to the point of the fusion process with the German Siemens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u70	Thank you, Mr. Casanova. In answer, Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u71	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Mr. Casanova, as you say, the mass of the Games is a reference company in Eukadin, not just because of its influence or its work, but because of its influence over the suppliers and the whole chain. And for us, as you mentioned, it's very important that he stay here and stay here himself and everyone around him. It's a company that's created in 1976, which today is extremely important for its dimensions and its influence, as we mentioned. We've learned that the body of Games is fused with Siemens, and it's not buying each other, it's a foundation. Of course, the one is something bigger than the other, but it's a fusion. And the situation is now in relation to groups. So we're going to know the details when they want to, but we don't want to use that as an excuse because we share with you the importance of this company going to Basque. We are therefore in direct communication with them, not a meeting, but only a syporadic meeting, not only with the Games, but also with the Iberdrol, because he is his chief sharer. What for? What you said, in a sense, to be able to guarantee and to keep the search for roads here, to keep the production centers here, and to keep our investigations here, as we have now. And, of course, in order to guarantee the work that has been done with the local providers and that whole chain, not only as it is now, but as it is, in the relation of the fusion to the Siemens, that they may also cultivate the work of these providers. That's what we're doing right now, and I think it's with this feeling of Games and Iberdorla and they're taking this process to these cells, and we're confident that this is going to end well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Mr. Casanova, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u73	Yes, of course, it seems to me essential that this permanent contact and follow-up work be carried out, because we are talking about a company which has a substantial weight in the Basque economy. We're talking... I used to say it's the first stock exchange company. We're talking about a company that's worth as much in stock as Cie Automotive, Vidrala, CAF, Portland Valderrivas, Tubacex, Iberpapel, Azkoyen and Reunited Tubes together. That is to say, we are talking about a leading company, one of the true references of the Basque industrial world, and also a company of an important technological sector, related to renewable energies, which we believe is strategic. And, therefore, we believe it is essential that this effort be redoubled to maintain here all the management structures and the greatest possible production and supplier network. You're talking about fusion, there's a doubt... In fact, there is obviously a huge disproportion in size between the two companies, and let's say that in specialized international economic media there is openly talk of acquisition. I could read examples of the Financial Times: "... He's in talks for the acquisition of Gamesa-Siemens." Or specialized magazines in the energy sector: "Gamesa is one of the latest credible acquisitions as an opportunity for Siemens". I mean, watch out for that fusion thing, because it's hard to merge with Siemens. And, therefore, an important effort must be made, because it rains on wet, and in this country we know and have bloody cases, such as Euskaltel, such as Kutxabank, with partial privatization and weight reduction of their industrial portfolio. We have a problem in the industrial sector in this country. We have problems of different kinds: a problem of lack of productive diversification; a problem of technological backwardness, however much the contrary is proclaimed, that we are gradually moving away from the European parameters, not from the advanced ones, but from the average parameters; we also have a problem of productive relocation, and we have a problem of relocation of production centres. I am glad, to some extent, that you express that concern, and we will follow very closely that work that we also want to conclude with the maintenance of Gamesa...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u74	Thank you, Mr. Casanova...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u75	...and its decision center at Euskal Herria.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u76	Mrs. Tapia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u77	Casanova jauna, as I was telling you, right now the data we have is talking about a merger of Siemens's wind division (not all Siemens, obviously) with Gamesa. And it's a merger, I insist, between the fourth and fifth producers. There is a difference in size, but not from a first to a sixth. With this fusion one would come to have a company that would be the first producer in wind energy, and in some way would complement capabilities, since Siemens has capabilities in offshore generation production only, and at this time Gamesa would be a promoter of parks, in addition to onshore generator producer. Therefore, different specialties and also different markets, since Gamesa brings markets in countries, let's say, of a somewhat different economic level, let's say emergent, or as we want to consider, different, but also in the US onshore have a very powerful capacity. Therefore, markets and technologies that are truly complementary. The work that we have done – simply to set an example – with Gamesa at the advanced manufacturing center in Eibar, and through that joint venture that she generated with Areva (Adwen), trying to get those suppliers to work together and provide solutions to Gamesa and Adwen in their new needs, we will continue to do so, do not have any doubts, and of course we are glad that you too are concerned about this issue. We will continue to do so with Siemens and Gamesa if they merge, and we will continue to do so, if the merger does not occur, with Siemens on the one hand and with Gamesa on the other. Because we believe we have capabilities, but, of course, we cannot be outside those technological areas in which the greatest competitive advantages are currently being produced for our suppliers and our companies. Then it's a job we're already doing but we're going to continue, whether they merge or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Tapia. Number of points in theme list: "Interface, the members of Laura Garrido Konnörkal, a member of the Popula team, made of Eplegus and National Society, a special employment plan of the Araguaian. " Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u79	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. On the 12th of November last, we came to an agreement-propositation in the form of a proposition introduced by the Poptular Party, and we asked the Basque Mitch to make a special program in order to promote work on the Arana, to make it work for the villages in a very serious, weak situation. We can say, and after a few months, that this special program is not done, and that's why we make this interference to the Chief of Staff in this Chamber. On 12 November, an agreement was adopted in this House with a large majority, in which we urged this Government, the Basque Government, to submit to the creation of a special plan to boost employment in the less-favoured areas of Álava. We understand that Álava has been discriminated against in relation to Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, bearing in mind that for two consecutive times the Indartu programme has been launched, which provides for grants, subsidies, a subsidy programme for companies that make productive investment generating employment in Gipuzkoa and Bizkaia areas, specifically in the areas of the Left Margin of the Nervión River and Oiartzualdea. I mean, for two successive calls, an amount of 8 million each has been approved (i.e. we are talking about 16 million euros), when Álava has stayed out of those aid programmes. These aid programmes need to be framed in a regional aid map which was approved by the European Union in May 2014 and which allows regional incentives to promote business investment. We are therefore talking about a very important aid programme and a programme of aid aimed especially at companies based, as I say, in the territories of Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, in the areas to which I have referred. The companies in Álava have been left out. It has, therefore, been excluded from Alava municipalities which also have a high unemployment rate, and in this sense we consider, from the People's Group, as we have already shown in the debate on the non-law proposal in the plenary on 12 November, in which we reached this broad agreement to which it referred, we said that the municipality Alava and the companies based in the historical territory of Alava had been clearly discriminated against in respect of the companies located in the neighbouring territories. Hence, the motivation was discrimination against Alava, and this initiative was approved accordingly for the Basque Government to create this plan. This Member, at the time of the budget appearance – following the debate on this initiative, because, as I say, it was debated in November –..., in the budget debate we already asked the Councilman himself whether there was any provision, any budget forecast in connection with the elaboration of a special employment plan for Álava, and the Councilman told us that there was no such forecast. Subsequently, a specific amendment was incorporated into the budgets, and following an amendment by the Socialist Party, in the amount of EUR 500,000, a specific amendment that is transferred into a grant to the Álava Parliament, a transfer that is a grant to the Álava Parliament to carry out actions related to employment. I have to say that the Group of the European People's Party, seeing the amount of the Indartu programme, which was EUR 8 million last year, and seeing that this year is EUR 8 million, had considered it appropriate, in order to remedy this imbalance with the territory of Álava in these employment programmes, to put in a heading of EUR 3 million, which I mean that it was rejected and that which was incorporated was that of EUR 500 000, which is absolutely insufficient for us. Seeing the 16 million euros in total of the two years of the Indartu programme, we believe that it would be fair for Álava to have 3 million euros. We have recently asked the Councillor a written question on this issue, to see how this agreement on the drawing up of a special employment plan for Álava had been fulfilled, and the answer has been the reference to this €500,000 economic item, which de Lanbide will materialise in an economic allocation to the Álava Foreign Office. Of course, we consider it absolutely insufficient, and we understand that on the part of this Government, and given the answer we have been given, to simply limit itself to that amount of EUR 500 000, when, I say, our amendment was EUR 3 million and we are talking about EUR 16 million for Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, we believe that there is no intention on the part of this Basque Government to remedy the comparative aggravation that exists with the historical territory of Álava, and that once again, and I have to say this again in this forum, in the area of employment, in a very important matter when we are at a time of economic recovery, of consolidation of employment and of promoting the competitiveness of our companies, and again the crumbs arrive in Álava. There is, therefore, a comparative aggravation that is not being remedied, and in this sense we ask the counselor for explanations. And that is why we put forward this question, because we understand from the Group of the European People's Party that we are once again witnessing this oblivion towards Álava in an absolutely sensitive matter such as employment, and when, moreover, because of the special geographical configuration of the territory of Álava, and also because of the special characteristic of certain areas and the unemployment figures which they have, of course, deserve special attention and deserve, to compensate for the fact that Álava has been excluded from that Indartu programme, the elaboration of a specific employment plan for Álava, for the less-favoured areas. That is why we ask the adviser whether, apart from the subsidy mentioned in the €500,000, incorporated in the approval of the budgets, this Government intends to draw up this specific plan and thus remedy once and for all the discrimination in employment that exists in the historical territory of Álava. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u80	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. You know what? Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u81	Thank you, ma'am. Congressmen, good morning to all. Mrs Garridio, as you have well explained, in the 1 9/2015 Act of December 23, Presumption is received in the Euscadian Escigo 2016, where a match produced by a legal correction, in which the profession ought to lead 50,000 dollars through nominative aid, in the area where the economy has damaged, in order to continue to promote jobs. You said very well that you asked me a question you wrote, and I said in answer: and the economic proposition which will serve to direct these actions, and to justify the scholarship of the commodity, will therefore present to the profession the plan of action which he has undertaken, which will be the object of his employment in the country. And yesterday we received the suggestion of the Forum. I told you in my reply, and also, Mrs Garrido, that the profession has helped every moment in all his meetings with Oion, Amurrium, and Ladium. In these conferences, they were informed of these undertakings, and the Aldudia urged them to perform the offers of witnesses, which might be able to promote the administration of the townships. On the other hand, you ask me to obey the order which I shall receive on this legislature on the 12th of November, 2015, and I must agree with you. In fact, I can say that I'm able to make sure that what's received in another proposal, like 104/2015, is already being filled. But I do have to tell you, Mrs Garrido, that the Indartu programme to which you refer is not from our department, but from the Department of Economic Development and Competitiveness, which, therefore, I understand that you are distorting and comparing data that are not at all comparable, and perhaps the inquiry in the sense that you have made it should go to another department rather than ours. I therefore have no more chance than to answer you with the data you are working in our department in relation to the actions we do in Álava. It is the calls for local aid that develop the local employment plans for the entire territory corresponding to our department. Let me explain to you how these aids are articulated. Lanbide, through these aids, seeks to contribute to the development of the right to stable and quality employment. Lanbide, through this aid, favours the setting up of labour markets which contribute as efficiently as possible to ensuring the employability of workers. Lanbide, through this local aid, covers the needs of staff adapted to the needs of enterprises and promotes social and territorial cohesion through the management of employment policies. And one of the principles to which Lanbide has to adapt its action is the adaptation to local reality, as expressly stated in article 2 of Law 3/2011. In order to fulfil the purpose of this Act, a number of functions are assigned to this autonomous body, including, inter alia, the proposal for general, sectoral and territorial planning and management of public employment policies. At a more concrete level, and directly related to the local dimension of employment policies, the design of programmes to support local employment-generating initiatives, promoting, in collaboration with local authorities, the development of local employment pacts. The local level is the right way to identify new productive possibilities, and it is therefore essential that employment policies, in their design and management model, take into account this local dimension in order to adapt them to the needs of each territory, of each region, of each municipality, so as to promote actions that contribute to the realization of this potential and to promote and support initiatives to generate employment and entrepreneurial activity in this area, as provided for in the basic employment regulations of Law 56/2003. From this perspective, and as a first step towards the development of the local dimension of employment policy, it was necessary to know the reality of the territory and, after an in-depth study of each region of Álava, to identify possible employment promotion measures to be applied in each of them, enhancing the role of local entities as drivers of job creation. From this in-depth analysis we can extract the data from the areas of Araba with the highest unemployment rates, which are the following (something has come down because we are talking about December 2014; in any case, they are the highest in Alava): Oion, 25%; Llodio, 19.1%; Agurain, 17.2%; and Amurrio, 17%. Thus, under the order of 9 May 2012 of the then Counsellor of Employment and Social Affairs, the regional employment plans were drawn up in the territory of the Autonomous Community of Euskadi, thirty-nine plans. In-depth studies of each region, built, shared and elaborated with the highest degree of consensus by local institutions and entities, social actors, companies and other entities that collaborate with the economic and social development of the regions, of each region, or of some of the municipalities that form them. From those regional employment plans, concrete projects were produced that sought to boost employment and local development, overcoming the imbalances generated by changes in the labour market. Local aid calls develop three lines of action in our department (I repeat, in our department, because it seems that your inquiry has gone with other figures and from another department). Firstly, type 1 actions, which are called "Employment Promotion", which are contracts made directly by local entities, including entities dependent on them, or through insertion companies, special employment centres, non-profit entities, dedicated to the socio-occupational integration of people with special difficulties. Two. Type 2 actions, which are called "Contracting aid", carried out by local companies already belonging to the ordinary labour market, which the local authority collects, in most cases, through special calls for aid. And 3, and I conclude, other local development actions with an impact on job creation, aimed at those regions and municipalities particularly affected by unemployment. This type of action in areas particularly affected by unemployment includes both type 1 and type 2 actions described above which have not been covered by the allocation of funds, as well as other types of innovative actions, always included in the regional employment plans and which involve job creation. In addition to the type 1 and 2 actions described above, proposals or projects containing strategic and innovative actions are also supported in these type 3 actions. It is clear, therefore, that we are not only going to comply with what has been said by means of a parliamentary amendment, but that there were already measures of this kind at the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Well, counselor, the facts are who they are. The facts are 16 million euros for Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, and 500,000 euros for Álava, but also introduced through an amendment of a group; that you estimated it was enough, since you had an amendment of the People's Party with a commitment credit of 3 million (as I say, with a commitment credit), which you discarded and rejected, and introduced those crumbs of 500,000 euros for the historical territory of Álava. Of course, we understand that with this absolutely insufficient item, and seeing that Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa have reached EUR 16 million, the existing discrimination is not subverted. You tell me about the competition issue. Man, I understand the government..., and when one is a member of the Basque Government I also understand the government as a whole, and more when we're talking about employment policies and there are several departments of the Basque Government that have specific, and important, employment actions, and more when Lanbide is with his own job skills, which you have also demanded insistently and which also came with some delay because of some other obstacle that the Basque Nationalist Party put in its time. But you have arrived, and in the end, when you have competences, you do not develop them properly. And here you, in the department you run, had room for manoeuvre to remedy this obvious imbalance with the historical territory of Álava. And don't tell me the question of the departments, when precisely the amendment that was introduced in the budgets, of 500,000 euros, was introduced in your own department, it has been introduced in Lanbide, and it is a grant, a transfer that is going to materialize in a grant addressed to the Foral Diputación de Álava, which, as you say, is doing some action in this regard. But what we are talking about here is that you have again failed to fulfil a mandate from this Parliament, because of course this group (it seems that you do), this group cannot be satisfied that Álava is getting EUR 500,000, when Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa are getting EUR 18 million. I want to say that the crumbs are coming, the remains are coming, and we believe that this is an absolutely insufficient amount to alleviate unemployment situations in municipalities that, as you yourself have said, have considerable unemployment rates, such as Oion, with 25% unemployment, or Llodio, with 19.1%. But then you have told me about another series of calls, the calls for local and regional employment plans, when this group has had to present numerous initiatives in terms of the legislature because precisely there has been a new inaction by this government in the area of employment, a delay not only in taking out those calls to the municipalities – and we are talking about an amount of EUR 20 million in each call – but not just a delay in taking out the call (this year has not come out, and we have also put forward an initiative in this regard), but in the resolution of the calls. Last year we also had to debate in this House, which came to an agreement, because last year's resolution had not taken place. Therefore, do not tell me here that there are other actions, which actually are, when we are seeing an absolute inaction in the different actions that the department you run and Lanbide-Vasco Employment Service can perform to deal with one of the most important problems that we have at a time of incipient economic recovery, at a time when we need to promote the competitiveness of our companies and at a time when we need to consolidate those data that we have for economic recovery. Again, Mr President-in-Office, we see that such a sensitive matter, which should be absolutely priority for this Government, is not so. We see that again all the actions that have to do with employment seem to be in the drawer of this government and of the department that you preside over, and again we see how you have been unable, for now, to remedy that imbalance and comparative aggravation that exists in the Indartu program with the historical territory of Álava, when you have competence and can exercise them. We're asking for more willpower. We will put a motion, and you there will have the possibility, in the debate that is backed up by it, to correct and, of course, to put the money that belongs to Álava to take the place that belongs to him regarding Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, which it is clear that you do not give him the place that belongs to him.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u84	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u85	Thank you, ma'am. You continue to compare different items, different budgets from different departments. And you're questioning this counselor and this department, and so I can't answer it on behalf of... Surely with other games the situation of Álava is completely different. Don't confuse me you grills with merinas, do me a favor, Mrs. Merino [[Sic]] - No, no, no, I think... I'm sorry, Mrs Garrido. That is to say, that this game must be directed to strengthen the already active initiatives in areas which have been most damaged by the economy. The item to which I have referred, of EUR 500 000, to reinforce and increase those areas in which they are already being carried out, working in the less-favoured areas of Álava through local employment plans, provided that this is considered by both the outside Parliament and the local authorities. I also have to tell you that the employment plan is in force from 2015 to 31 May, and that those for 2016 will certainly be from that date on. And I say "strengthen up" because specific plans, as I have pointed out, exist. In particular, the call still in force in 2015, in Article 3, establishes a distribution of the credit according to the type of shares to be developed and according to the amount allocated to each region. In the case of Araba, EUR 2.5 million has been allocated for Type 1 and Type 2 actions (EUR 2.5 million, employment promotion and recruitment aid) and EUR 1 million for Type 3 actions. And we go in 3.5, and we go alone in Lanbide. We're not comparing it with the other departments anymore. And so, in the less-favoured areas of Álava, for local employment plans, in 2015 400,000 euros have been allocated to the Ayala Valley, more than 100,000 euros to the Alavesa Plain, almost another 100,000 euros to Rioja Alavesa, 50,000 euros to the Alavesa valleys, 50,000 to Gorbea Straits, 50,000 to Alavesa Mountain. There have been no delays, Mrs Merino. [[Sic]] - No, no, no, And there won't be any this year. And don't tell me that Alava is being mistreated. Another thing is that you want to use it, because you in the People's Party in Alava can always win a couple more votes with this speech, but don't tell me, please. Defend also from time to time Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa, where you must also have affiliates! Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u86	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The 12th point in the theme list: "To ask the question, the parliamentary members of the Basque Group of Laura Garrido Körr are made to the Chief of Eplegus and Society, about the irregularities detected in the files of society." Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u87	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Well, I hope, Mr. Counsellor (I am Mrs. Garrido for now, and I hope for a long time), but I have to tell you that I hope that this question will get to the point. It also has to do with Lanbide and his responsibilities at the head of the Basque Government. Today, again, it is up to us to talk, because this issue is not new, about irregularities in social assistance, and the shortcomings in the functioning of Lanbide, the Basque Employment Service, are again demonstrated, in addition, according to the data given by his own department. One in two social aid files managed by Lanbide that have been reviewed fails to meet some of the requirements set out in the current legislation, the Income Guarantee and Social Inclusion Act, for the recovery of these economic benefits. We are talking about RGI and supplementary housing provision. This has seemed very striking to us, especially in view of the fact that, in the same reply, we are told that only 30% of the dossiers have been reviewed. That is to say, 30 % of the files that were reviewed in 2015, in half of them irregularities have been detected. We therefore ask you, Mr. Counsellor, through this question, what assessment it deserves of you that half of the dossiers reviewed by Lanbide show irregularities, when 70% of the dossiers still remain to be reviewed. We're talking about the year 2015.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u88	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u89	Thank you, ma'am. And forgive me, Mrs Garrido, in heart, sometimes Rajoy, with more experience than I do, sometimes does such things. I want to begin by saying that the use which is made of facts, in order to explain these preparations at the present day, I have asked for a match in the Parliament. Mrs Garrido, I'd like to think that when we talk about the system to guarantee the incomes, we're all aware of the impact of this system on thousands of people. With that, I think it's irresponsible to speak frankly about it. And it's worse, too, if it's to make a political income. Y esto es lo que creo que sod ha ha ha ha ha. The department, in response to several written questions, provided you, as it could not otherwise be, with the data you requested in detail and precision, and on the basis of this data I have to tell you, Mrs. Garrido, that you are building an interesting and tortuous interpretation. You know that the information requested by your parliamentary group and provided in the reply refers only to suspensions produced through ex officio reviews (in bold), which were 45,830 in the last three years. However, you're interested in moving us here that these are the total revisions. No, Mrs. Garrido. The total number of revisions made by Lanbide over the past three years is 361,849. You state that Lanbide reviews only 30% of the total files, when the reality is that they are reviewed practically in their entirety, and also twice a year on average. If what you want to transfer to public opinion is that Lanbide does not control RGI, try otherwise, but please rigorously. You don't stop there. It tells us that in half of the cases there are irregularities, to transfer the idea that fraud is widespread, and calls irregularities to the 384 different cases for which the benefit is suspended or extinguished. It seems to you that the termination of the benefit is irregular when the person in a cohabitation unit dies. You have the data, don't misrepresent them. I only ask you for rigour and responsibility in a matter like this. The 120,000 people who benefit from these minimum subsistence income deserve it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u90	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u91	Look, counselor, I'd ask you not to miss the truth, because this answer is signed by you and here are the revisions clearly coming in every year. Revisions of 2013, 6,577; in 2014, 7,927; in 2015, 10,967. RGI and PCV revisions. RGI revisions, also the corresponding one and the total of them. Add it, and you'll see what percentage comes out of total GIR files. And, therefore, I would ask you not to miss the truth in an answer that is signed by you and that is signed, therefore, by the head of this department, which is you. Of course, the data clearly corroborate that Lanbide's management is overflowing them, counselor. And also in the data you have given us, and repair them, and add all the extinctions, why are the various extinctions... They are obvious, and say that there are irregularities in half of the social aid files that Lanbide reviewed in 2015. And the revisions, according to the total I have given you, Mr. Counsellor, are 30%. Look at the total number of files you have from RGI, and look at the total number of files that have been reviewed each year. As a result, in 2015 70% of the dossiers remain to be reviewed. But also in 2014 21.5 % were revised, and in the previous year less 19.7 % were revised. Therefore, Mr Councillor, rather than throwing balloons out and saying that others do not read the data well or that we manipulate the data, because I believe that the data is obvious and that anyone who wants to access Parliament's website can know them, what question do you ask when you see that you are unable to solve the problems you have in managing social aid? That they are already structural problems, problems that accompany them from the beginning of their operation and that go even further, despite all the means that they are saying Lanbide is equipping himself for this.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u92	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Your time is up. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u93	Thank you. Mrs. Garrido, 45,830 reviews by trade. Total revisions, 361,000. And that's the information that appears in that data. Analyzing your questioning and your intervention, I am very afraid that by a handful of votes, as you did a year ago in the face of an election meeting, you will repeat a shameful spectacle of pretending to discredit our Basque system of social protection, and in particular to call into question the effort we are making so that Lanbide can reach greater levels of legitimacy. Let us jointly protect our income guarantee system for social inclusion. The collapse of society is the inheritance of all, and we should all be on the side of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u94	Thank you, Mr. Toña. The thirteenth point in the subject list: "The question is, that Gloria Sánchez Martín, a member of the Social Council, a member of Eplegus and National Society, had not accepted six new jobs in the Eukascan Lacade." Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u95	Thank you, President. More than a year ago, the monographic session of 7 November 2014, which analysed the serious situation that Basque society was going through at the time, and continues to do so, due to the growth of poverty and the risk of social exclusion. It was agreed that the Basque Government should draw up a specific plan to strengthen human and material resources of the Labour Inspectorate, aimed at combating recruitment fraud. On 28 November 2014, Mr Juan Mari Aburto, former Employment and Social Policy Councillor, in response to a question of control by my parliamentary group, the Basque Socialists, indicated what the current staffing structure of the Labour Inspectorate was, and committed himself at that session, the Councillor, to raising it to six more inspectors. He claimed that she was already transferred to the Civil Service Directorate and promised two places in Álava, two in Bizkaia and two in Gipuzkoa. This commitment was also expressly demanded in Parliament on 19 February 2015, and was reiterated again on 16 October 2015. These new inspection posts were to be created by abolishing other posts of the Labour Inspectorate's TPP now vacant, so in principle they would not increase the budget of the current TPP, but would strengthen the inspection staff in the Basque Autonomous Community. I believe that these places are currently covered by the tax and civil service clearance, but the procedure is in the process of making allegations by the trade unions about the amendment. Then it will have to pass through the Office of Economic Control and the final okey before it can pass to the Governing Council its approval. It has already been a year since the Councilman took up the commitment, and we have still not even created those six additional places in our Autonomous Community. Let's not talk about when the contest will come out to cover them. That is why, Mr Toña, I am asking you the following question: Do you intend to cover and create your department the places of labour inspectors and social security to which you committed before May this year?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u96	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. In reply, Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u97	Thank you, ma'am. The process of creating these inspectorship jobs is already running, as you said, Mrs. Sánchez. We had to make a double procedure, and we started the first phase of the necessary work in 2014. The strengthening of the human resources of the Labour Inspectorate of the Basque Country, through the creation of six new places of labour inspector and social security, as you know, is under way. While there is a double procedure for the coverage of new vacancies, the first is nearing completion. It is the will of this department to provide these means to the Labour Inspectorate to fulfil its role as guarantor of the monitoring and enforcement of the labour standards to which we always refer. And the new labour and social security inspectors will allow us to reinforce the task we have been carrying out since we acquired the competence of the matter. I am of opinion that the rules of the work-land where the Euskal Autonomy is within reach of the Esquire. So it's our responsibility, no doubt. And to-day the prevention of the conditions of labour, or of labour, amongst others, is not only our responsibility, and we are also concerned with it. And we are responsible for the necessary means, and be assured that we are so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u98	Thank you, Mr. Toña. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u99	Counselor, I know the process has begun, but the point is that we have already been in that process for a year. I know that there are going to be four unit chiefs and two inspectorships, and that in the end, although two were going to be created in each province, the result of the distribution will be different. Although it is logical, it can be logical; we need to look for the best way to meet existing needs, and Bizkaia's inspection of Álava and Gipuzkoa is going to be better, with more places, because there is more need. But the situation of precarious work that we are experiencing today is much greater than that which existed four years ago. It's not an opinion, it's statistical evidence. The wage gap between men and women has been widened, and it has increased by 2% to now reach the annual rate of 24%. According to INE data, about 2 million workers receive the minimum interprofessional wage or less. This has led to a further increase in wage inequalities. That is why it is so important to create the largest number of places for labour inspectors, because the more effective the more action will be taken. They believe these places once before May this year, because then they will have to go to the Directorate General of the Labour Inspectorate to get the competition for the coverage of these places, and we all know and are aware that this is going to be delayed this year, given the situation at the national level, where we are in the phase of forming a new government. Stop wasting your time and act, because in the end they will fulfill the promise they made in November 2014 two years after they have promised it. They already exercise their powers, and take effective measures to combat poverty and inequality that currently exist. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u100	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Mr. Toña, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u101	Thank you. As I said before, Mrs Sánchez, the double procedure you know is necessary. First, to activate the administrative procedure for the creation of the new places, a process that the Department of Employment and Social Policy that I run began in the second half of 2014 and which will culminate in the approval by the Governing Council of the increase in places mentioned above. Knowing that this procedure has not yet ended, I can advance to you that it is nearly over, and we hope it is over in a month's time. I hope this month, March, passes through the government Council. On the other hand, once the Governing Council has approved the extension of places in the employment relationship, and the appropriate publications have been made, it is necessary to carry out a competitive procedure at the state level, the system of labour inspection, for the coverage of such places by their holders. The process of generating the competition, the processing and the subsequent resolution of the competition shall take at least an estimated time for the three phases indicated from a period of six to twelve months from the start of the competition. That period we do not control and neither do you, and we would like to shorten it to all. And precisely because we are concerned, as I believe this House as a whole is concerned, about the employer abuse that can occur in recruitment, because we are concerned about the precariousness of our employment contracts, because we are concerned about the increase in inequality, because we are concerned that there are second-class citizens in this country who cannot defend themselves, and that we do not have a sufficiently well-equipped inspection. That is why we are doing what is in our hands so that there are no lack of inspectors who can go to those who really need them, because they feel clearly helpless in situations of abuse that we all know well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u102	Thank you, Mr. Toña. fourteen points in theme list: "The question is, that the members of the House of Xabiers Isasi Balanzaria, made to the head of the Board of Education, the Policy, and the Cultural Society, to normalize the functions of the municipal and townships of the Council, as well as of the Judician use." Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u103	By permission from the President of the Parliament, I look upon the question as read from the seat.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u104	Thank you, Mr. Isas. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u105	Mr. President of the Parliament, chiefs, members of the legislature, good days. Mr. Isas, the State Administration resurrected a 2014 peace of the City of Toulouse, which promised financial aid to promote the cults. In the course of the trial, the first Donostian courts and then the Central Justice Court of Euscata gave the verdicts and left the article 30 for the order of the Council of Toulouse to no avail. Apart from the case of corporations at the normalization of the city, whose jurisdictions are planned on the new bill of municipal laws, I want to clear up one thing: the promotion of the resistance is indispensable to the normalization of the eucalyptus. Thus says the Eucharian law, and thus it has been shown by many actions and plans which have taken place in all the councils of the eussa. But the susceptibility of the euphoria, like everything else in society, has its limit, because it has a necessary condition to preserve it: the rights of the language of the people always, in all cases, to respect them. According to the law of Normaizing the use of Euskar, the national administration must establish the rights of the language of the people. These rights are common to the peoples, and it is the administration of the administration to assure them that these rights are fulfilled and executed. That is to say, the administration has no right, but the obligation of the people, to fulfil the rights of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mr. Isas, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u107	Thank you, Mrs. President of the Parliament. The question is, that when I speak of the rights of the language of the speakers, I do not think it the same applies to some and to others, to the Basques and Elders. The question is, are we to adapt our language to the whims or caprices of the Spanish government in the time of our language? That's the question. For instance, yesterday we learned that the registrar of Spain has committed a special appeal against the City of Biscay to denounce the Council to UEMA. The representatives of the Government argues that they exceed the jurisdiction of the council. The chief department will, of course, know that the townships which meet the UEMA (Tolosa itself) are of those who consider respiration, that is to say, the majority of the townships of which the majority of the townships, the small, formed a unit for the support of the eucom, and enabled the normalization of the cuscomy. The chief physician will, however, know that the townships have been the most eloquent, and who have lost the proportion of the Basques for the past 30 years, as the census and the municipal clan show. There is no legal guarantee for the use of the Basque. The law has rendered it an instrument to punish the use of the eucalyptus. That's what the Tolosa case shows, that's what it's like, and that's how we can take more time to get over 700, contrary to the use of the eucalyptic, against the municipal rights, against the policy of the eucalyptic eupola which the whole of us would like to establish. Some parliamentary members of this parliament are bored with these discussions, which seem never to end, and they are right. There is no month before the speaker of the eucaïe-without any attack against the association: If there are no appeals against the townships, it is to prevent the use of the eulogy of public services either from denying or euccating children's lessons for the Basques. "Mingerry suggests that it's a fault and he spends a lot of money on the old bird's advertising campaign." Your government, chief physician, has done nothing effective in preventing the attacks of the enemy of the eucassion, because the appeals have followed one another. It's true we've won a few in the courts, but the damage in most cases has been irresistible. And perhaps the members of the legislature are bored, but we will not be tired and we will ask again for the legal guarantee of the use of the reconciliation. If the law is to be changed, we can change the law. They tell me I'm too dramatic. It is not a proper word, it would be more just to say that what happens is disgusting. At least we're sick of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u108	Thank you, Mr. Isas. To answer, Mrs. Uriart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u109	Mr. Isas, the sentence of the Central Court of Eucharistics may be more or less agreeable to us, but it is not fair to say that it checks the normalization of the Basque Act. Sentence does not disturb Tolosan and other townships to maintain the use of a colony. This sentence aims at the right of the language of the people who do not know how to support it, and thereby puts both official languages on the same level. There are assertions that deserve to be observed in this sentence. In the 30th article of municipal order that has been cancelled, there's a line that's supposed to be legal. See what the line says: "In the expressions which are made of drugs and youths, and especially in verbal expressions, the preference must be given to the eucalyptus, for those which may be possessed of eucalyptic expressions are eloquent." Now see what the sentence says about it: "Evabio, la prioridad que el artículo custionado de la ordera reconace al e ees comunicacios biulis no vulnerera els tumulis tumuli de lellanoparantes, ya que talupa el dove dove doves la llicias de colicia de Commodum au, tutura de capa de vabea de foa de propa." As we see, it validates the priority, and the promotion is by no means in question, which is expressly mentioned, in order to promote the language of its own. More, still: it also allows, as it were, the opportunity of spreading the acts which are to be performed by resistance. What is expressed in this sentence is that citizens have a right to present documents in any of the two official languages to the Administration, such as memory to create or to youth. It protects this right; it is not to prevent the promotion of the eucalyptus. It is clear that the promotion of the Basque Sea is necessary, and that the Administration ought to encourage it to resist, but always respecting the rights of the people.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u110	Thank you, chief physician. The 15th point in the theme list: "The question is that María Isabel Celaé Déguez, a member of the Basque Socialists, made to the head of the Board of Education, of Language, of Cultural, and of the official knowledge of the euca, concerning the reformation of the system." Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u111	Yes, good morning. Good morning, everyone. Madam Councillor, on 22 October this House unanimously urged the Government to reformulate the system of official accreditation of Basque knowledge. He requested that through the validation follow-up commission he analyse the current orientation and contents of the official euskera accreditation tests (EGA et al.), evaluate the results, and examine their causes. We ask for something more: we agreed that the validation follow-up committee would propose improvements to ensure that the Basque socio-linguistic reality and the functions to be performed are constantly brought into line with the Basque socio-linguistic reality, and to promote the extension of the social use of the Basque language. We wanted to see these proposals and conclusions in the Basque Parliament. The deadline has passed, Mrs Uriarte, and we have no knowledge of the outcome of that work. When, therefore, is the Basque Government going to make known to the Basque Parliament these proposals for improving the official accreditation systems of the Basque country? Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. To answer, Madam Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u113	Andrea president. Ma'am Celaá, the Basque Company Frugry Committee agreed at the 2nd of October 2015 to test the powers of the eucalyptus and form a committee for that examination. In this meeting the representatives of the organs of the Administration (HABE, Education, IVAP, Bordering, Osacence, Justice), were introduced into the administration, where the rest were examined, and the question was to be made in order to improve the whole system of check; Whether to adapt the frame of European languages to our social reality, to the extent of communication in evaluation, or how the constant eupulative of certificates can be introduced and valued in other matters. It must be said that this examination was an event planned at the Basque Age and ESEP. The Basque Agenda is worth 2013-2016: "To narrow the work of organizations and organs with a view to the East, to coordinate calls and processes, and to make steps for the union of the system." On the other hand, the mission of Suscan Sussure Plan gets his duty to reflect on the study system and to practise improvements. So, um, you know, I'm pretty sure the thought about the modern system was needed. This was why it was decided to form a herd. And in fact, for the last four months, there's been a lot of work on this subject. The experts have made several meetings to study the situation deeply today. At the moment, as the result of these meetings, his task is at the stage of breaking up and hiring consequences, and he will soon be able to inform the Board of Investigation of the work done, and then, as requested, to this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u115	Yes, Mrs Uriarte, I would ask you to be a little more precise in the reply, in your turn of reply, because there are certainly many people who depend on your results in EGA. A lot of people. That is, there are other tests that actually prepare for other things that are not so substantive for people's lives. That is, the EGA has a clear problem of misadjustment. The results of the EGA are frustrating for people in relation to the Basque. A clear problem of misadjustment. It contains philological requirements which, while absolutely consistent for a translator's post or a Basque teacher's post, are not so consistent for a position in the Basque public administration. And people play it, they play it in the job, because of the result of the EGA. I'm not just talking about euskaldunberris; I'm also talking about euskaldunzaharras. So this is in a hurry. And he is in a hurry, and he is also surprised that they have not yet done so, because, indeed, precisely in this debate, the position held by the group that supports this government was that of "Nik esan nahi doubana da Gobernua ari da la zirtagiri guztien emaitzak hobetzek lanean". I mean, first you went from a scandal to what you were asking for, to assert that you really didn't need it, and thirdly you said that you were already working on it. Even when others insisted on four months, there was some demand on the part of the supporter of his group or his Government that three months was enough. I know the complexity of the subject, I know it, I know the complexity of the subject. I mean, I don't want in any way to minimize what the order of the task is, but what I demand is a bit of a hurry, because there are a lot of people who are playing it. Therefore, I ask you a little more precision regarding the date on which we will be able to know the content of your improvements in relation to the EGA, and, if you want, in addition to other official certification systems. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Mrs. Greart, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u117	Madame Celala, as I said, has worked a great deal on this subject for many months. In the departments of the experts, today's situation has been seriously studied, in the results obtained in different tests, some of the reasons which may have taken effect, and some technical recommendations to be taken into account of the future have been elaborated. According to the predictions, the team of experts next week will report their consequences to the Underlying Committee. From these consequences, and from a later analysis and discussion, he will make a report that will be sent to the Basque parliament by the Underlying Committee. This report is scheduled to be finished at the end of March and will immediately be reported to the Parliament. I am surprised that I am so hasty in this matter, because this is not something new that has been given in this legislature. In three of the four years of his mandate, the percentage of suspensions was higher than in 2015: in 2010, 77.9%; in 2011, 77.8%; in 2012, 78 %. And in relation to the deadlines I also remind you that you yourself, in the original text of the non-legislative proposal that you submitted in July 2015, granted a one-year deadline to propose any changes you considered appropriate. I would therefore consider it much more relevant for you to acknowledge the speed and rigour with which work is being done in this area, rather than criticising for work that is being done properly.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Uriart. The 16th point in the theme list: "Ask me, Jule's Arzuaga Gumuzius EH Collectorda, a member of the Security Division, about the riots of several of the Olympiques of Marseilles in February 25, 2016." Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u119	Thank you, Mr. President. Good afternoon, everyone. I'll try this subject, the campaign against riots, that arouses passions, that is to say, from a quiet and constructive manner. I can see that there will be many operators who fulfil their end, and we are only discussing the operacis which do not conform to it, upon operacis which do not conform to the object of the eyes of the people. And I want to mark a little bit of the goal, don't I? You, chief physician, have said that the goal is not only to keep or protect the public order, and I agree, because that's a close purpose. It should be the goal to upset violence in sports. And that's where I'll try to place our concerns. How can we make such an attitude from prevention to calm it, or, if possible, vanish? The criteria that you seem to have used in designing this operation were dissuasive deployment, containment measures, preventive presence. And I agree that those must be the criteria, that must be the point of view, and I agree because there is no other. That is why I am very concerned to see an image given that these criteria are not actually practical or not working, because I think that the alternative that other parties, as we have heard before, other trade unions, or perhaps other citizens, may be, is an alternative that, of course, from my point of view, from the point of view of irresponsibility, we know what it is. I mean, if prevention doesn't work, we generate more repression, we generate more reaction, we generate more determination in response, we use more forceful weapons, we create more disproportion or more violence. And that is precisely the alternative from which EH Bildu wants to flee, because he does not consider it an alternative, but considers it merely chaos. That's why we're asking you how you're going to value prevention to deal with these disturbances in a more effective way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u120	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u121	Thank you, ma'am. Senor Azuga, as they say, has been carefully vetted by police officers and authorities, what happened at Bilbao. For a moment there was a series of Marseilles and Bilbo football fans who met each other and began to fight against each other. And some of the lovers of Marseilles had shown a violent tendency in various places, but he did not go to the larger places all day long, and at that moment he was eager to prevent any quarrel. And he did. That there was more to be avoided? Yes, of course, why would I say no? But you know very well, Mr. Arzuga, who has great measures of security, that a man or some one may harm, when they want to harm, is difficult to avoid everything, so as not to say it is almost impossible. And there were people who were willing to hurt each other last Thursday when Bilbo was gone. There were but few, but they wanted to do it, and if the border hadn't been organized, the quarrel would have been more serious. How are we going to prevent it, I was wondering. I have said this before: to raise awareness to prevent and prevent, from education and also from police action.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u122	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u123	Thank you. Esaten didazu Ertzaintzak eragotzi zuela eta larriagoa izan zitekeela. Bai, nago teenagers. It could certainly have been much worse, but I also say that there will be a margin of improvement, a wide margin of improvement, because there is always one, and that is what I want to emphasize. Because that margin of improvement also has to come from containment, prevention and deterrence measures. And I think also because it connects with a value that is fundamental, that is that here in this society there is a position that society as a whole rejects these behaviors. We have also known the unbearable consequences of other very similar operations, and I am certainly referring to the Cabacas case, a case in which the appropriate responsibilities have not yet been cleared up and from which I believe we must also draw definitive lessons. The Cabacas case encourages us to establish guarantees that this will not happen again, because it is one of the main claims made by the family, to which the events of last Tuesday have undoubtedly reopened the wounds. Madam Counsellor, we believe that we cannot fail in prevention, we cannot fail in deterrence, we cannot fail in containment, because, if not, the alternative is precisely to oppose violence to violence, which leads us to square violence. And that is the spiral from which he wants to flee EH Bildu. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u124	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. To answer, Mrs. Beltrán de Heredia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u125	Thank you. Indeed, in the Bilbao incidents last Thursday by the Ertzaintza there was forecast, there was decision and there was planning, but above all there was dimensioning and proportionality. There were sufficient numbers of ertzainas for the security plan, and proportionality in the implementation of the plan; security cordon from the border to Bilbao and also on return; deployment of mobile brigade officers at strategic points throughout the city, to prevent and prevent and deter possible incidents; more citizen security and information-collaboration troops with the French police and also with the security services of the two clubs. In short, all those elements reinforced for the circumstances of a high-risk party, to prevent incidents from occurring. Well-organized, well-distributed, well-directed by those directly and on the street, at every moment and from the heart of the operation, trying, as I said, to avoid episodes of public disorder and violence, taking into account at every moment the incidents that could be caused. I have already said this in the first speech and I repeat: is this the real debate, the police action? No, no, Ertzaintza will continue to work to improve its services, to plan, to prevent. But I wonder, and I asked myself in the previous speech: who is going to do what, so that that minority part of the hobby stops encouraging, stops planning and stops exercising violence in that way? And this is the reflection that I think we have to do and that we have to worry about everything. As we have said in the campaign against the sporting violence, we must all act for our partner in the sporting world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u126	Eskerrik asko, Beltran of Heredia andrea. The seventeenth theme in the subject list: "Interpologies, members of the Ubeka Aranz and the EH Collectors, were made for the head of the Medical Department, the project of the Medical Department about clinical management units." Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u127	Chief of Parliament, members of the legislature, chief physician of the Medical Department, all good noon. Well, today we want to meet the plan of the Medical Department around clinical management units. That's the purpose of the session today. and the information we have about this subject is very contradictory: On the one hand, the Medical Department tells us that in several stages, it has done so that they did not run the clinical units for management, but on the other hand it is evident that these units have been introduced into the information sent by them. And so many professional healthes that have passed from the committee have confirmed and confirmed that these units are on the move. We must add that the former Government, the Socialist Party Government, had accepted and set up units for clinical administration in the 23rd Administration Council of May 2012. And we have also the threat of another pearl of the Imperial Government in function, the project of another royal decree. The function of these units is the function of clinical and organizational functions, integration with the management function, autonomy, efficiency, optimism and quality of the service. And the completion of them lies within the integrated sanitarian institutions, and the choice is also left open for the same institutions. It was, in point of fact, the object of the production of multi-discipline laborers. You know that we agree with the multidis disciplined crew, we agree with autonomy, efficiency, optimism, the quality of service, how not. But we don't agree with the fact that these principles are a mask of inexpertation of other goals. We do not agree with this, for if the multidiscilin crews are to conclude something, it is to decide between them all, to open debates, to meet the struggle between the members of the proceedings, the professionals of different profiles, and, unfortunately, we have never seen them before, and these groups have been cut off from the roots of those who have seen them. On the other hand, we see that autonomy is used to represent horizontality, but we see that with what is given we want to avoid public control, and that decisions will be placed in a few hands, so that we may increase our decisions based on subjective criteria, personal or economic interests. For example, in order to introduce a medicine or other, according to the interests of the pharmaceutical companies, to facilitate the "enviisms," even if the head of the unit is working in the private and public, the wrong and evil management of the list of waiting can be done; it may introduce a blur of the sanitarian institutions, and penetrate into individualism and specialization. I mean, at the moment, the integrated sanitary organizations have been established and are implementing these units at the same time. And we see a fragmentation, increasing and increasing, which can bring its own dangers. And we need to add incentives to that for fulfilling our goals. I mean, how can you understand that it's even possible for you to do your job, to motivate it, also to have some incentives and a few fees? And he can help, too, if the policy of competition is more powerful, if such incentives and financing are used for the purpose I mentioned. And no doubt he may open the door to the privatization, and the means of penetrating into the privatization may be made within the sphere of interest and will, according to the motives which may be involved, although not the political will of the health department and of the co-operation. That is to say, if the Medical Department, or Osalides, have no end for privatization, and its purpose is not to be so; but if those who are below, and those who are at the head of those units, do so with the atomicisation, with the fragmentation, and with the loss of the public control which it brings, we can only see what is happening to us in the sector of the medical ambulance, there will be no one left, nor any president, for we will be able to get hold of this, because we will certainly get involved in a very disturbing whirl and confusion with the speed that will take it. And so, to make the health zone a business zone is another step forward. And our team wants to make public health system a source of business, not a business zone. It seems to us that this is our legacy, that we must guarantee the public system, the social coverage, and the right of health which everyone knows is in our power to guarantee and guarantee it. And we trouble ourselves about how the organization and structure, which are organized in order to answer this right, can solve. And therefore we trouble ourselves about the working of the units of clinical management, and what consequences it can produce, according to the use, and the interests which may be behind it. And so we want to know about the session today, Mr. Darpón, who are the plans of the Medical Department for this organization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u129	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. Ms. Ubera, this interference has been registered after several questions during August 2015, and after you have denied the protection required by the House of Parliament when you receive answers. Answers, by the way, in which we referred you to five parliamentary initiatives that already provided the information you required about clinical management units in Osakidetza. However, it gives the impression that he is not very interested in this subject: he presented an initiative on this subject registered in August 2015, he subsequently withdrew it, and now returns to the subject. In the explanatory statement justifying this inquiry, you point out that little is known about the aspects surrounding clinical management units, and therefore you will allow me to start my presentation by clarifying the concept and development that you have had in the history of Osakidetza. Clinical management is a concept that emerges in the 1990s, mainly in Anglo-Saxon systems, as clinical governance. It implies supporting the strategic planning of the organization and its services on a contrasted scientific basis, and above all the approach and involvement of professionals in the management of care processes. Therefore, the keys to clinical management are quality care practice, leadership, and participation in the care management of professionals: what to do, and how to do it, managing the care process to get the best possible result. When you doubt this pattern and talk about disfunction and private interest, you are wrong about professionals who form the system. Besides, you doubt their honesty. You, who always make the banner of professional participation, are not well understood the suspicion you have about clinical management units. On countless occasions I hear you that Osakidetza provides a quality service thanks to its professionals, and not thanks to the advisor. Well, this project goes along that line: participation and professional autonomy to improve services. In Osakidetza the concept of clinical management is deployed in the mid-1990s, and not in May 2012, as you said. It was born within the framework of the strategic plan Osasuna Zainduz, approved by this Parliament in 1995. Osasuna Zainduz is developed to improve the use of diagnostic and therapeutic resources, favoring changes in the behavior and culture of professionals, with the aim of increasing the efficiency of the system, involving health professionals in the management of resources. The materialization of that project was carried out through the so-called clinical management contracts: contracts born from the very fragmentation of the program contract of each organization (either a primary care region or a hospital, today an OSI), through the clinical management units. The first clinical management contracts were put into operation in some hospitals, but it was mainly in primary care where it was generalized in the period between 1999 and 2005, when I had the honour of being the director of healthcare. These annual contracts set out the care objectives and quality commitments, as well as the budget for primary care units. In short, the clinical management for 20 years has been performed in service and units for members of the Oscars. Besides, he helped to do a kind of management that is closer to the clinics of the Osalists. The goal, largely covered, has been to bring clinical and management cultures closer together, so that professionals can participate and assume responsibility in the management of their processes. In summary, evidence-based medicine, quality of care, patient-centred care, and reorganization of care processes, abandoning practices that have not proved effective. Are you really worried about this, Mrs. Ubera? He's been telling me again today that he's worried. I still think that you question the commitment of the Department of Health and Osakidetza to people. Do you really think that clinical management units can respond to private interests? I really would be grateful if you would explain to me where you see problems, except one of your subjects, of course, of which you give a principle of knowledge. Clinical management is nothing more than a change in the way the care process is organized and understood to be led by the professionals themselves. I was recently asked in this Parliament about OSI Debabarrena and its clinical nursing management units. So his concern was if we were to take them off. I replied that this was not the case, but today it appears from your considerations that your problem and your distrust is not with the clinical management units, it is with the doctors. Yes, if the clinical management units lead infirmary to you they look good to you, and if the doctors lead them to you they worry. Well, well, look, that has a name: professional prejudice. Lately from your group, and you in particular, are committed to charging against the Osakidetza medical collective, implying, when not asserting, that they use their situation to benefit economically and invest in such serious issues as privatization of the system or waiting lists. In the initiative you talk about private interests, and in the press conference on Monday they came to use the word "picaresca". Do you doubt your honesty? We do not, and from this rostrum I send my support and confidence, to them and to the rest of the men and women who serve every day in Osakidetza. As you have said, it was during the past parliamentary term when the clinical management units were regulated by an agreement of the board of directors, but previously the social statutes of the public body, approved by Decree 255/1997, in its article 16 already contemplated them. The agreement of the board of directors states that the clinical management agreements are the document signed between the head of the clinical management unit and the manager, that is, the equivalent of the clinical management contract established between the service and the management. It also determines the management bodies of the units themselves. As you can see, the development of clinical management in Osakidetza is nothing new, and it is not developed from the agreement of the board of directors, but it comes from more back, and of course has no temporary relationship in its development with the deployment of the model of integrated health organizations. Clinical management units are not added to the organizational model, but are another phase in the organizational development of the centers. The development in Osakidetza has been parallel to the rise of clinical management also in other communities. In addition, as you have reflected, the Government of Spain is working on a draft royal decree of clinical management units. As you can see, this is a widely deployed management concept. In the context of the current competitive environment, and in accordance with the draft draft royal state decree, clinical management units are a management element that will only be implemented in those communities that consider it appropriate and in accordance with the measures that each of them decides to incorporate into their autonomous regulations. However, our view, expressed several times, and also in the Interterritorial Council, is that we do not need state regulation, given that clinical management units are an organizational and management tool, so our competence, we understand, is exclusive to us. None of the clinical management units in Osakidetza have any financial incentive for any of the participating professionals in any of the categories. Because, in fact, the economic incentive is on the salary. And we are convinced of the commitment of the professional collectives of Osakidetza, we are convinced that we have a quality health system, we are convinced that they are the main actors, and this is only one tool that we make available to the centers where it is deemed appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u130	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Ubera, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u131	It seems to me that we could reply more calmly in disputes, and that we could have more quiet discussions. It's right to have different opinions, isn't it? You didn't answer me, but I understand from your answer that these clinical management units are on their way, and for once it's a pleasure to know the attitude of the Medical Department. On the other hand, it is our right, that every parlamentary group is the right of bringing forward the enterprises and proposals we please. This is the function of this parliament, though constantly, in order to carry forward these enterprises, and to debate these undertakings, which hinders the government, and repels it against the end of this legislature. On the other hand, and on several occasions, and often without respect, either by this parlamentary group, or by this parliament. As I said on the first round, we agree with the multidilinear team. We think it's fair. But when they are really barbarous, when this dispute and these resolutions are really amongst all, and when there is a truth, and there is no public control to be disturbed. And what we're seeing is that here, running and running, are working to avoid public control. And it's our job to establish this public control, because here, with the money of all of us, they are allowed to share the partnership and public system. And to make the proper use of that money is absolutely necessary. It is necessary, too, to offer the people a quality service, because this is our purpose. You mentioned what this model of management is doing approach clinical management and functional enthusiasm. We'd say he's doing the opposite, doing the opposite. But with what criteria did you set them up? That's what you don't explain. And we know that professionals have their wages, but we're here to fulfill their duties, and that they're on the payrolls. And that's against the service's quality. This is not the public money in dealing with and efficiently. And that's not really autonomy and that's not really the proper function of a public medical system. Here and there again, when there's no answer, you say that we make a fuss. Now you're the only one who gives power. You, always under that stupid "personal object" "when you're doing it, open a concrete form of function to increase your privacy, to keep your attention away from the population, and, as we see, when that has a correct influence on quality. Just look at it! It's just to look at, these multidilinear organizations, where these multi-discipline groups have started, with professionals in quite different profiles, what's happened. We can go... We've just seen what happened at the Decarei. Then what is the real goal? What's the real purpose? And we absolutely do not deny the integrity of all professionals. To us, to be a doctor, to be a nurse, to be a watchdog, everybody deserves respect, all of us. And it should be our business to lay down the best means we can, one for them to do their work, and to make their decisions on the most convenient conditions, always with public control, public control, because we are all playing with the money that belongs to them. And what it couldn't be, in the firm, in the public camp, there's been a trial in private camp, and, for instance, I'm handling the list of waiting lists, and how Osar's is a long list of waitings, send it to the private area you do, or to the rest of the afternoons...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera, thank you... To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u133	Ubera andrea, from the tranquillity that gives me to see how she recognizes in this rostrum what she did not say on Monday, that is that all the professionals of Osakidetza deserve respect and are honored, from the tranquillity that gives me to listen to it, so let me. Look, what you have to do is take off the bandage. The community, Euskadi, enjoys a quality public health system that we have built among many people, among many people, mainly with professionals, for more than thirty-three years, and that is probably the public institution most valued by citizens. And it also has recognized prestige. There's nothing more to ask on the street. Then, I advise you to remove your prejudices and approach the health care system with your eyes open, so that you listen. As we do many acts and cater to many people, so we fail a lot. But a lot of a lot, which is little, because most of it goes well. And there are examples every day, so acknowledge it. It's not because I manage it, that's not the case. No, no, no! It is because it is a good service, it has great professionals, successive governments have been providing it with means, and it is also the largest company, public or private, that has Euskadi. Look, the clinical management units I'm not going to explain again what they are, because you've explained it very well and I think you understand it. You speak in the intervention that there are doubts whether because it is a clinical management unit you get a medicine or not. Unbelievable! You're talking... you're talking about hiring plug-in. Unbelievable! You're talking about the doorway to privatization. Unbelievable! You talk about lack of public control, you talk about worrying dynamics, and you talk about doing business, about being able to do business with health. Demagogy, Mrs. Ubera. Demagogy. Nothing further from reality. Cheap demagogy of previous regimes. Get closer to the health care system, and see what's there. Well, you've asked me if we're going to go deeper in the implementation of clinical management units. We are not delving into the clinical management units, because we understand that the voluntary component on the part of the teams is very, very important. Therefore, out of twenty service organizations in Osakidetza, only eight have some clinical management unit. I mean, look at you. I insist, I cannot imagine what private interests it refers to, beyond the legitimate professional pride of the people who are participating in the clinical management units with the clear intention of improving the care outcomes and, consequently, their own professional prestige and that of the organization for which they work. The purpose of professional members is to improve the results of the given help, and to improve the prestige of their profession and the organization they work for. He has again said here today, as he said at the press conference, professionals working in the public and private sectors. Look, the reality is that you don't care that an Osakidetza staff cook has a bar in the afternoon, but you do worry that a doctor who works 8 to 3 can use his spare time in activities related to your profession. I'm not worried, because it's the way to have many very good professionals who don't devote their time just to working certain hours a day and looking for a supplement in the afternoon. I demand you to separate the public from the private, act in the morning (or in the afternoon, depending on the schedule you have) in the health service as if it were yours, and give health results. That's my concern, and that's what I do, and yours, prejudice. Prejudice. We're going to manage by counting on all the professionals. We know that healthcare is a teamwork, that all categories are indispensable for the care outcome, and that doctors and doctors in Osakidetza are very committed professionals, as committed as others, and that they certainly do not deserve their distrust. Defendemus el systemi público, defendemus a sus professionales, y sobre todo laboros para las persons. Person end, ma'am. As to the values of persons who form the organizational structures for members, there is no doubt but that they are the axis of their task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u134	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The 18th point in the subject list: "Interadectation, U. Blanca Roncal Azanza, a member of the Medical Department, a member of the Medical Department, 1054/2015 Decret, which the nurses allow to receive medical treatments." Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u135	Good afternoon. Thank you, ma'am. Counselor, we're going to keep getting closer to the health care system. Today we don't come here to talk about the hospital in Mendaro, which we already know you don't like; we also don't come here to talk about the nurses, which we already know you don't like, and we're not going to talk about the content of Royal Decree 954/2015, which we already know you don't like. Nor does the group of nurses, who have taken away functions already assumed and perfectly fulfilled, like him. Trade unions don't like it either. Nor does Parliament like it, which has already spoken out against. You have even taken one more step: you have announced on different occasions your intention to appeal this Decree 954/2015. By the way, we have already requested from the parliamentary group, upon request for documented information, a copy of this documentation concerning the appeal for general knowledge, both of this Parliament and of all interested persons, including the nursing group and its trade union representatives. In fact, we already know that others have appealed before you. He has resorted to the General Table of the Nursing Profession and the Satse Union, and I am sure that at this point many others have already resorted. But you in Euskadi also have the responsibility to solve the problems, and in addition to announcing the appeal you and the director general of Osakidetza have sent a letter to the group of nurses working in Osakidetza, a letter informing them that there is, temporarily, no obligation to comply with this decree, and that, if any problem arises, Osakidetza already has a civil liability policy that will be liable for any civil liability that may be incurred in breach of the royal decree. But we all wonder: And if everything is right, why do you have to tell them that there is a civil liability policy? If everything is correct, there is no need for a civil liability policy! But it is that you have gone further, pushing the nursing schools and their managers not to inform your collegiate group about your legal obligations, because you are contrary to the letters sent by you and the director general of Osakidetza. According to you, the nursing collective – we have already said – does not have to comply with this royal decree, but, of course, the nursing profession in Euskadi is not contemplated only in Osakidetza! And what about the private sector? Are you going to send them a letter, too, saying they don't have to comply? And what about those who work in mutuals, and the nursing collective that works in senior residences? You don't have to do that either? Are you going to send them a letter making sure they can do that? And what about school health nurses? That is why we ask you, Mr. Counsellor: Do you consider that there is an obligation to comply with the royal decree in Euskadi? Yes, or no? Do you consider the adviser who must also comply with the parliamentary agreement of 4 February, which told him to "use all legal and regulatory means to ensure that the nursing activity continues to have the legal certainty that he has had and his professional practice develops with all guarantees, without nurses and nurses being forced to adopt behaviors that put them at risk both personally and professionally"? Except that you, I am surprised, have always been very prudent and put forward legal certainty before making any decision (see the co-op, the system to resolve the compensation to the co-op always with legal certainty ahead of you), or also having ahead of you the service offered to people, in this case I want to believe that it also has a legal report that allows you to say with all calmness that you do not need to comply with the real decree! But it is a shame that the lehendakari is not there, because we would ask you if all the councillors have the same authority, like you, to inform us of what decrees we can comply with and which ones we cannot comply with, because I personally would like to address the interior councillor and ask you to see if I have the right not to comply with the Circulation Code. Can we ask the Home Secretary for that? And don't leave me saying that there are other health services that don't have solutions, or that services run by socialists don't know either... I would like you not to ask me about the peace of the world, because that also worries me, but I cannot devote myself to it. My responsibility and my concern is Euskadi; I hope yours too. Finally, we hope that you will tell us how you will solve the problem that arises not only in the general health service, not only in Osakidetza, but also in the rest of the health services that are provided to the population in Euskadi. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u137	Eskerrik asko, walking president, legebiltzarkideok, Mrs Roncal. You don't know what I'm happy to hear about Euskadi's concern. I thought we were gonna get out of here today without any agreement! Allow me to begin my intervention by recalling some of the precedents prior to the approval of Royal Decree 954/2015, which regulates the indication, use and authorization of medicines by nurses, because it is called. On July 30, 2013, the Ministry of Health, Social Services and Equality signed a framework agreement for collaboration with the General Nursing Council of Spain and the Nursing Union – in the mouth of its Secretary General – also of Spain; agreement that included, among other aspects, aspects of professional management competence of the communities. Section 1.1 of that framework agreement, entitled "Indication, use and authorisation by nurses for the dispensation of medicinal products and medical devices", agreed on its regulatory development through a specific text. It was also agreed that all nurses would have to hold the corresponding accreditation issued by the ministry, and that it would also be for the ministry to resolve the accreditation for the use, indication and authorization of the dispensation of medicines and health products subject to the procedure established. This agreement included essential elements, with an agreed and defined wording, to incorporate into the future text of the draft royal decree on nursing prescription. Under that agreement, and with the approval of the General Council of the College of Nursing and the Union of Nursing, the communities, including Euskadi, were excluded. The Satse, which in 2013 accused us of cuts in Euskadi, signed with Rajoy. On March 26, 2015, the draft of the royal decree passed through the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, receiving our vote and favorable opinion, as stated in the Council's minutes. On 23 July, the Council of State also delivered a favourable opinion. On 23 October 2015, the Council of Ministers adopted a text of a royal decree with a substantial change in respect of what had been agreed, in respect of what had been agreed at the Interterritorial Council of the National Health System, and in respect of what had been reported favourably by the Council of State. On 23 December, two months later, and following the holding of the general elections, it was published in the Official State Gazette. Throughout this process, this Health Advisor, since the presentation of the draft in the interterritorial council, has always expressed himself in favor of nursing skills, including the prescription of certain medicines, and with this objective we have held specific meetings with both the medical schools and the nursing schools of Euskadi. I will remind you of the dates, so that you can see from when we come: April 20, 2015, with the medical schools; May 4, with the nursing schools; November 6, with the nursing schools; November 9, with the General Council of Medical Colleges of Spain and with the three medical schools. Those who have followed meetings subsequent to the adoption of this royal decree. Therefore, in the justification of action, it is important to illustrate the wrong facts given by Mrs. Roncal. As you point out, Mrs Roncal, it was adopted on 23 October 2015, five months ago. And by this circumstance, the same in all places of the state, after five months, comes to you the concern today here and now. You say, Mrs Roncal, in the justification of your inquiry, of this royal decree, which is binding. Look, we can't agree more. This Government has argued that this royal decree is binding, and we even believe that all laws are binding. And even that they are also binding on the parliamentary opposition groups. I invite you to review the initiatives in the form of non-legislative proposals that your group has submitted or supported in this legislature in this House and the degree of compliance with the legality of many of them. This same week, forty-eight hours ago, your group voted in favour of a non-legislative proposal requesting that my department adopt an OPE without respecting the applicable replacement rate, which, by the way, was invented by Mr Zapatero's Government and which is currently defined by a law of the State. But for you these are surely small details of no importance, because, after all, you have no responsibilities of government and I do. The royal decree of nursing prescription is mandatory. It is as binding as the non-universality of health care for immigrants, or as the pharmaceutical co-op in pensioners. And, of course, of such binding compliance as the Gernika Statute of Autonomy, reads the latter that it has been failing to comply for thirty-five years with the satisfaction of both. The Department of Health and the Basque Government have stood against the actual decree of prescription of nursing, and the purposes for which you ask me are not purposes, are concrete facts. On 2 February, Mrs Roncal, the Governing Council agreed to authorize the filing of a dispute-administrative appeal against the royal decree, which was made last week, and also calling for precautionary measures to suspend that royal decree. And I have no problem with you asking me for the remedy. I will gladly ask the Department of Justice and Public Service to do so, because I should know that it is the Department of Justice that establishes remedies for the contentious-administrative of the High Court. In addition, in order for you to have no doubt about our firm opposition, the parliamentary group of the Basque Nationalist Party has registered a non-legislative motion calling for its repeal last week in Madrid. You also tell me that this counselor sent a communication to the nursing community that provides its services in the different health centers and organizations of Osakidetza. You're wrong, Mrs. Roncal. You're wrong. I guess it's that you'll be busy in other interests these days, you'll have prepared the interpellation in a hurry. This counselor on December 30, a week after the publication of the royal decree, sent a letter to all the addresses of the centers (the addresses, Mrs Roncal), and sent it to the addresses of the public, private, mutual and social health centers, Mrs Roncal (one already comb canas, eh!), so that all staff (doctors, doctors, nurses, nurses and commanders) know how not to stop applying the royal decree, but to interpret its application correctly in a company called Osakidetza. The professionals have therefore not received contradictory instructions, but specific instructions, supported by a legal report prepared by the Government. Mrs Roncal, a legal report. And I am pleased that you join this recognition and realize the importance of the nursing community in our health care system. You've made a compliment here from the nursing community. I will invite you to review the initiatives you have made in favor of the nursing collective before this royal decree, because I have indeed bothered to review them, and believe me, the poor area that you have dedicated to you in this legislature! And, returning to its alarmist sufflama in relation to the risks of civil and criminal liability faced by nurses and nurses, after eleven weeks since the entry into force of the royal decree we do not know any judicial claim on liability, despite the hundreds of thousands of health actions carried out by the nursing staff daily in both Euskadi and the State. But we are not against only Article 3.2 of the Royal Decree. We are against the royal decree as a whole. We are against the development and validation of the care protocols by the Department of Public Health, Quality and Innovation of the Ministry, because, according to the Statute of Autonomy, they are our competence in this matter. We are against having to be accredited by the ministry, to prescribe, nurses who have the degree degree, who have done a pharmacy course and have been four years of degree. And we are also opposed to nurses who have a graduate, and therefore have done three years of undergraduate, or four years, plus two years of specialization, such as midwives, having to do a 180-hour training course. And we're against anyone wanting to turn training into a continuing training business. As you can see, our opposition to the royal decree of nursing prescription goes beyond an article. Our concern has not begun today, Mrs Roncal, for many months now what we have been working on with the ministry, with the schools (with the medical schools, with the nursing schools) and with the organizations of Osakidetza. And I repeat again: we are in favour of nursing advancing skills, and among them we are in favour of prescribing certain drugs and under certain conditions of protocolization, and above all teamwork. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u138	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u139	First of all, I would like to thank you, Mr President-in-Office, for the tone, for the information you have put forward, for the cordiality with which you always respond, which is priceless. I deeply appreciate that. Second, you're wrong, or you're a little memory failure. Look, at the last full session of the previous session I asked him a question about the situation of the role of nurses in Euskadi. Following that interpellation, I made a motion of interpellation which ended on 4 February, the first plenary session of this session. Therefore, do not say that we have no concern about the situation of nurses or the nursing community. We have done so even before Royal Decree 954/2015 was published, even before. The interpellation, as you remember very well, was the last full of control in December. So, when you recriminate things, at least rely on proper and correct data. Don't talk to me about how the decree was negotiated, and then it wasn't negotiated... Don't talk about what it could have been and it wasn't. What is, is the approved royal decree, which prevents nurses from continuing to prescribe drugs in the development of their profession, in those parts that they work autonomously, as you yourself have pointed out (matrons in the process of childbirth, cures to injured, pressure ulcers, burns...). Indeed, all these kinds of actions that the nurse does, especially that of primary care, and that she has been doing without legal protection, but she has been doing them, this royal decree, instead of... (as you have pointed out, all those agreements that were then frustrated), this royal decree comes to them to withdraw all those powers. And I'm not saying it, it's just the state attorney says it. The State lawyer, as you know, responding to an appeal from other persons affected by this royal decree, points out that the actions of nurses prescribing medicines for which they did not have legal jurisdiction meant a continued criminal offence, called intrusion. You know that there is no civil liability policy that supports intrusiveness. At least this is the opinion of some insurers like Zurich, insurer who had Osakidetza until very recently. Now we don't know who he has, but until recently Zurich was the insurer of Osakidetza, and he has said, according to a request for information by other collectives who also have civil liability policy contracted with Zurich, that it does not respond with a civil liability policy to criminal offences. As you know very well, criminal responsibility is personal and individual, and a civil liability is not held solely with money. Therefore, with the violation of the royal decree you are putting the nurses in a position of illegality, by forcing them to... His letter and that of the director general of Osakidetza, telling them that nothing happens, that you can fail to comply with the royal decree, that you already have that civil liability policy, that... Why do you inform them of the civil liability policy, if everything they do is right? If everything you do is right, don't tell them there is that! I conclude by saying that we are certainly not satisfied with what you have told us. And I'll tell you again... Of course, we all know, in fact, Osakidetza is very good, the group of nurses does very well, the group of doctors also does very well, but you know that there is a group of doctors to whom it seems very appropriate this royal decree, which is willing to denounce any nurse to whom you see acting in the sense that you say they can act. Yes, don't make new ones: in Osakidetza there are also doctors who applaud this royal decree with their ears, so you already know that you have a motion to change your behavior. [[Barres]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u141	Mrs Roncal, the first thing I am going to do is to celebrate that you have recognized in the rostrum not the tone, that tone each one uses the one that can: to celebrate that you have recognized that in the last plenary of the last session (i.e., the end of November 2015) you put in the first motion on nursing professionals. I will remind you that this legislature began on December 17, 2012, then three years later you were worried about the infirmary. Well, man, what do you want me to say? A little poor. On the other hand, don't misunderstand things and go back to the interpellation you did. He made an inquiry about OSI Debabarrena, which mixed with the nursing prescription. I remember it very well, with the prescription for nursing. Therefore, either we were mixing barbecues with merinas, something you really have great skills in, or you were already more with the prescription of nursing, because you had already been approved by the Governing Council. On the other hand, we don't have to worry about nursing. We've been working on it for years. Now, if this community has arrived at this councilman without regulating the prescription of nursing, waiting for the state, it has been because there have been other legislatures, including yours, that did not regulate as in Andalusia. Here we arrived without any regulation. So, look, I now celebrate all your concerns, but facts, facts, eh! For us, the royal decree is binding. Criminal responsibility, as you have rightly said, is individual, now and always, in nursing, in medicine, in the collators, in all, and that has not changed, neither with this royal decree nor with any other. Our responsibility is to manage the health system and continue to offer quality service to people, above and beyond the corporate interests of each other and third-party clumsiness that poorly regulate what was a great benefit having done it well. And be sure it will be rectified. Be sure it will be rectified. On the other hand, Law 44/2013, on the management of health professions, already identifies and estimates the adequacy of protocols in its article 4, and states that in the professional practice "it will tend to the unification of criteria of action", based on "the scientific evidence and the means available and supported in guides and protocols of clinical and care practice". The professional exercise "will be carried out with full technical and scientific autonomy", and "the protocols must be used in an orientative way, as a guide to decision-making for professionals". In other words, we have protocols, Mrs Roncal, in whose elaboration qualified professionals have participated, whose practical application enjoys a broad multidisciplinary consensus on the basis of scientific evidence, and which are periodically subject to evaluation. The absence of protocols and clinical practice guides developed and approved in accordance with the criteria of this Royal Decree does not mean that existing protocols to date cease to be in force. The Royal Decree has not repealed Law 44/2013, and I want to make it clear to you. And, as you well know, I'm not a lawyer, but all the communications we've made are covered by legal reports. I will not tire of repeating this: the royal decree is totally unfortunate, but, Your Honor, we are neither in a situation of legal uncertainty nor contradictory instructions are given, nor are there any more risks of civil and criminal liability than before its adoption. We have the necessary legal resources to ensure that, despite the situation generated by the royal decree, we continue to provide a good service, with quality and safety for patients, and also with safety for professionals and professionals. We have formulated solutions that guarantee the quality of healthcare and the exercise of professional competence within the law, Mrs Roncal. Within the law. For this reason, in addition to respecting the demands that may arise on this subject, its solution will not be in the generation of conflicts either in health organizations or between professionals and professionals. The solution will come from the approach of a new negotiating process according to a new normative text that has the competences of the autonomous communities, that has professional and institutional consensus, and puts in value the competences of the medical and nursing professionals. This is our criterion and our commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u142	Thank you, chief physician. The nineteenth question in the subject list: "To ask the question, "about the sanitary activities that have been conducted from public health to the Onkological Institute of Donostia." Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u143	Thank you, ma'am. Counselor, we're here to ask you a question about the situation at the Oncology Hospital. You will see, when in this Parliament we examined the situation of oncology in Gipuzkoa and approved the incorporation of the Oncology Institute into the public service we were not thinking of doing Kutxa a favor, we were not thinking of improving the balance sheet of the Kutxa Foundation. We were thinking about the oncological offer Osakidetza, the Department of Health, had to make to the Gipuzcoan citizenship. We were thinking that it was much more efficient and much more appropriate that there was a single service, a single oncology service that planned, decided, organized and put as many resources as necessary to get the best possible offer of oncology in Gipuzkoa. In spite of the fact that this incorporation agreement was adopted in Parliament, you did not consider that to be the case, and you offered, you made a compromise saying that the concert was going to solve all the glues we put on it. Not only was he going to get a single service, even if there were two different titles: he was going to do a process of fusion, of functional integration, so that there was, therefore, as if it were a single oncology service distributed in two locations, and that the work was distributed, protocols were shared, sessions were shared, clinical histories were shared, activity was shared, and that was shared. Okay. You have a representative on the board of the Oncology. What happened three years later? We asked him about the Oncology activity... Well, let's start by saying that there's already an anomaly, because the concert finances them or pays off an amount regardless of the service they provide. Just as they present an activity of one hundred than ninety, you will not pay more than ninety, which is what you have agreed. Therefore, a great stimulus for the Oncological to take on more and more work, of course, because the more he works, the more he loses. First mistake. Second, three years later we asked you about the activity that Oncology has today, and we find that you send fewer patients in the last three years. Hey, where's...? Well, and fusion and functional integration, so 10% of the commitment. And to share clinical histories, they don't even have that. What you say Osabide Global is not from Osakidetza, it's from the citizens. Well, why doesn't Osabide Global have Oncology? Why not? What's the problem? What is the problem you are considering for which your commitments cannot be made?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u145	Thank you, Mr. President. Partners. Roncal anderea, I must admit you think you better read. I don't know what low papers for, if he does it better without papers. I will start my speech by telling you something that we have said many times but it remains very important: thanks to the health concert that on December 19, 2013 we signed the Department of Health and the Onkologikoa Foundation have laid the foundations for comprehensive oncology care in Gipuzkoa, and the health and economic integrity of the centre and its workers has been guaranteed. When we assumed the responsibility of managing the Department of Health in December 2012, we found a very worrying care and economic situation in Onkologikoa. There had been a gradual decline in the referrals of patients for three consecutive years (not in this period, Mrs Roncal, in the previous), with the aim of placing the center in insecurity and weakness. This uncertainty has been solved with the signing of the above-mentioned concert. I wonder why the Department of Health is decreasing the use of Onkologikoa. Mrs Roncal, either you have misread the data, or you have misinterpreted it, or you have asked something different than what I wanted to know, because I have to answer you that you cannot add mammograms, chemotherapy, radiation therapy, nuclear medicine studies, hospitalizations and consultations, from stick to stick. Obviously, there are things that go up and there are things that go down, depending on what things Onkologikoa does best and what things Donostia University Hospital does best, which we are worrying about. I must reply that the level of use of the services of this centre, with specific variations, has not decreased during this parliamentary term. And I also have to answer him, giving him the reason, that it is actually getting Osabide Global very late, and it should have been put up a long time ago. We are currently working, and before the end of this Onkologikoa legislature and the Donostia University Hospital will share data, because we are already working on the application to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u146	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u147	I'm starting to apologize, because now I have paper, and I'm probably gonna make it worse. First, I have to thank you again, because, in short, you do it very well, and I would like you to do it also without papers, which would also be better for you, because with the papers the truth is that the tone and the cordiality are not really wonderful. But that's like scorpion, as you tell us: it's in its nature. [[Barres]] Finally, today we speak not of the past, not of what others did, but of their responsibility, of what you are doing. I know I misunderstand everything, but make sure that the functional integration of Oncological advances. The same as Osabide Global is very late, everything else is also the same in the afternoon. So make sure you work for functional integration.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u148	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. To answer, Mr. Darpón, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u149	Mrs. Roncal, I really appreciate the tone, but I don't do veterinary medicine, I do medicine. You know that Parliament controls and legislates, but the government's responsibility is to govern. The fundamental tool of the Executive is approved by this Parliament, and it is the budget; budget that has not addressed in any of the exercises the publication of Onkologikoa and that has contemplated the continuity of the centre in concert, and to which you made no objection. Throughout the legislature there have been countless initiatives on this issue, namely forty, Mrs Roncal, but when the time comes you do not defend a change of situation for Onkologikoa in Gipuzkoa. Neither the last legislature tried to publish it, nor have they made any amendments to the budget in this regard, nor has the representative who also has the Basque Socialist Party in the employers' office ever raised something like this in the employers' office. What worries us is global cancer care, without blooms, Mrs Roncal. The cancer patients of both Gipuzkoa and Alava and Bizkaia are perfectly treated, and Onkologikoa is part of the care network. Ulertzen had the gourd bear of datuak aztertzea, bathed on the zere weretzukizuna. Finally, on the basis that Onkologikoa is a private centre, it would be no more than you, after forty initiatives in this Parliament between your group and another, to ask the centre's head what they want and what their plans are for the future of Euskadi. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u150	Thank you, Mr. Darpón. The twentieth point in the theme list: "Interregation, the parliamentary members of the Postpula team, Cristina Ruiz Bujedo, was made to the Chief of Environmental and Regional Policy, about the burial of the House of AHT's Bilbo." Mrs. Ruiz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u151	I left it on. Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Oregi, we closed this session today with the last question, and we have all the staff eager to be brief. I'm gonna try, I'm gonna get to the point. I doubt we'll be as fun as the previous intervention. It happens to me like scorpion, I carry it in nature. I don't know about you. Mrs Oregi, the Basque Government, in an obsequious and magnanimous boast, and at its own risk, apart from this House, surprised us last January with a private project to bury the high-speed train in Bilbao. On the newspaper paper, or on the screens in its digital version, it remained of the most apparent, it was very cool, the truth, more beautiful, cheaper, idyllic... Too good and too easy to be true and to be viable. Where to sign? If that were the case, of course, everyone would be delighted. Without the need to be expert or expert and technical in this matter, we must be very naive not to know that the key to the whole debate about the undermining of high speed in Bilbao is a matter of money and time, for the moment, because then it can also be by parliamentary and political majorities. I wish not, but for the moment of time and money. If it were for infographics and models, it would be all solved, but it's not. Mrs Oregi, the People's Party of Bilbao, Bizkaia and the Basque Country want the high-speed train to be operational as soon as possible, and we also want the station to be buried in the village. I'm saying it so it's clear, coming in. And if the station is buried, therefore, we would have a new area of opportunity for the city, and there are many reasons and very important, that in the city hall know plenty, for which we would be interested and it would be advisable to have the entrance of high speed in Bilbao buried. I know what I'm talking about. I've been a town councillor and head of the opposition for seven years. The high-speed underground in Bilbao is a strategic city project, and as such it should be addressed, as a strategic city project. That Basque institutions commit themselves is essential, and that the Basque Nationalist Party and its governments hesitate to contribute money to this project believe me that it is unheard of, is unusual. You don't understand. Look, Mrs Oregi, I have your reasonable agreement with the Ministry of Development, and I believe even in your personal conviction that with collaboration, loyalty and constructive spirit it is easier to move forward with the project. That is why I would encourage you to tell other colleagues and government officials to put aside those tones of exigency and victimism that have opened up in recent days with this matter. Moreover, if I hurry, even if I do not recognize it, I think it inspires more confidence in a Spanish government of the People's Party than anyone with whom you are fantasizing these days in Madrid, when you are more effective with high speed in Euskadi and with your arrival in Bilbao. There are also reasons for this. It is not only a matter of my predisposition: there are reasons for it. You are perfectly aware of what has been invested and advanced, with this People's Party government and this minister, on the high-speed train. What has been invested in the last four years has no comparison or comparison with what has happened before. I also do not have to forget the event organized by the minister José Blanco in the station of Abandon-Indalecio Prieto with all the main plane of the PNV and the Socialist Party, which were then the rulers. From that presentation so far I think we're much better. Look, Mrs. Oregi, when I saw the news in the paper, the news of herself and her team planning to bury the high-speed train, I thought two things. The first, how it is possible that the Bilbao City Council, the main interested and benefitted by this matter, looks like a guest of stone. Where's the city hall? And, second, how right the headline is to the news: "The Basque government wants the TAV, and much more for Bilbao." The "much more for Bilbao" is what is essentially our responsibility. The TAV is the responsibility of the Ministry of Development, the Government of Spain, and it is in this with clear and unequivocal commitments. But "the most" is about Basques, Vizcains, Bilbaons, Basques, Vizcains, Bilbaos... It is no longer a question of mobility or transport, nor of intermodality, nor of displacement, nor of speed, that of course; it is also, for the city of Bilbao, an urbanistic, social, of the future, of opportunity, strategic. That is why, or rather, it should be a matter of country, but of Basque country. From the Basque Country, from this Parliament too. And they don't want to take it for granted. That's where we see the problem from the People's Party. The project you manage suffers from technical, economic and chronological shortcomings. They've told you in writing. Its project has been analysed and evaluated by a team of experts and technicians, and at least this report should be sufficient to reconsider the approach of the Basque Government. The report also justifies in detail all the problems of the project that you have presented. But even with the technical issues saved, you would do well to acknowledge in this Parliament that without putting more money and waiting longer it is impossible to have a underground station in Bilbao. And if we care so much about that underground station, if it's so important to Bilbao, if it's a priority for the country, let's agree between Basques and between Bilbaons and Bilbaons, and act accordingly, collaborating politically and economically. I, as a Bilbaon and as a Basque, am willing to finance with my taxes the underground of the high-speed train in Bilbao. What I don't know is if you're willing with your taxes to subdue the high-speed train. If not, don't tell us stories that lose credibility. Mrs Oregi, in less than a month I am watching leaders and institutional leaders of the PNV stage a role that does not hang. When, at the request of the People's Party in the City of Bilbao, a plenary debate is held on the financing of the underground, Mr Aburto points to the car, for days later, in an informative breakfast with all his party colleagues and leaders present, reducing until its disappearance this budgetary commitment, and raising the tone – something unusual in it, which he never does – to camouflage that lack of commitment after an imposture of dignity and victimism. I don't understand, honestly. That is why I am asking you, Madam Counsellor, to answer what the Basque Government has in mind to cooperate technically, politically and budgetaryly with the Government of Spain in undergrounding the high-speed train upon its arrival at the centre of Bilbao. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u153	Good morning. Good morning, ladies of the table, chief of the department, members of the legislature. Last year, in 2015, at the time of September 2015, Adif presented to the Basque Government and the Bilbao City Council the proposal for the entry of the high-speed train to that city. From the very first moment that proposal they presented to us did not fit us. The proposal consisted of an interim solution valued at around EUR 80 million, in which trains simply continue to reach Abandonment on the surface. It is also a proposal that runs counter to the one put forward by the Ministry of Development in 2010, which already envisaged an underground solution, which, in addition to having various functional advantages, made possible an important urban regeneration of the environment. In short, that with the proposal made to us by the Ministry of Development in September 2015 we had gone backwards for the interests of Euskadi and Bilbao. Adif's proposal, as I say, is an interim proposal for access to Abandonment, which is carried out through the current railway corridor of the C-3 line on the surface, by installing a third thread from the southern mouth of the Cantalojas tunnel. And at this point the high-speed line is connected to the C-3 line, as reflected in the informative study of the new railway network of the Basque Country, Basauri-Bilbao section. In this proposal they maintain a track beach consisting of thirteen surface lanes, thirteen surface lanes: eight high speed lanes, and five proximity lanes. For us this solution had a very serious danger, and also many problems for Bilbao. The danger, that the provisional becomes definitive. No one's coming back here to turn that proviso around. Who assures us that we will have more investments to undo what is being done, and spending 80 million euros? To this we must add problems for Bilbao: it prevents the necessary actions for the urban regeneration of the environment of the station, as you well know and recognize also; it maintains the roads on the surface, therefore we do not release the necessary soils to unburden all that area; it prevents the transversal communication between the different streets (Bailen Street and Hurtado de Amezaga); it perpetuates the bad communication of Bilbao la Vieja with the center of Bilbao; it deepens the gap existing in the city in that area... Moreover, as I said before, the interim proposal requires a high investment, EUR 80 million which, if the definitive solution is to be made again, would go directly to waste; EUR 80 million which would not serve any purpose in defining the definitive solution. That's why the government, this government, and the department I run, we said no. And as we have, as you also know and acknowledge, a loyal and fruitful working relationship with the Ministry of Development throughout this legislature, we ask in Fomento, in the meetings we hold, by that change of criteria, and what we are asked is that the season must be completed in 2019, by the famous 2019. Although we all know and the ministry itself recognizes that the access tunnels between Basauri and La Peña are very unlikely to be there by that date, and that the Bergara knot, however, continues to accumulate delays, and therefore the date of 2019 is increasingly distant and is increasingly unlikely. In addition, to propose the interim solution Fomento also claims problems of budget availability, which we can understand in the times that we live. According to all of this, and in view of these problems that Fomento demonstrated, we are in common agreement to continue to collaborate, within the existing partnership agreement with them, with the State Government, between the Government and us, to improve the entry of Bilbao and to do joint technical work between the two administrations. And that's what we're on, that's what we were on, and that's what we're on. The compromise was that before... At that same meeting, in September, we put on the table a series of shared approaches, because the Mayor of Bilbao was with me at the table sitting, and with Mrs. Pastor opposite. We put a series of approaches on the table, and the commitment of the ministry, with the minister at the head, was to study them and introduce ourselves and make a decision on the solution of the entrance to Bilbao before the end of 2015. In the meantime, I suppose we all remember that there were elections on 20 December. Before those elections, we didn't mean anything. It was coming the end of 2015, it was coming the end of 2015, it was overcoming the commitment they had made to us, we had defined the solution, the solution was on the Fomento table and they knew it, we were working on it. We didn't mean anything publicly, Mrs. Ruiz. We didn't want to say anything publicly until the year 2015 was effectively over. The year 2015 expired on 31 December, and before the questions and the insistence and the logical interest that all the citizens of Bilbao (I would say of Euskadi) have in this solution, because it is a solution that radically improves Bilbao, we explained the solution that we had proposed to the ministry and that the ministry had already been on the table for a few months. The proposal made by the Basque Government, which I believe you also know, consists of a new underground station with two-level tracks; at level minus 1 the Feve and Renfe tracks are located, and at level minus 2 the high-speed tracks are located. The railway functionality of the new station in final condition is similar to that of the proposal of the Ministry of Development (which falls above, falls below, is quite easy to understand), but is better in different aspects. We have a better urban integration of the new station, much better. The Basque Government's proposal succeeds in lowering the urbanisation quota with respect to the Ministry's proposal; it allows us to integrate the plot with the surrounding streets, as it said before; it allows us to open new avenues across the plot, and it eliminates the gap that has existed so far. Moreover, in relation to intermodality, the Basque Government's proposal better integrates the services of proximity, feve and high speed by centralizing the access of travellers in a single building, and in the proposal of the ministry there are two independent buildings, with different foyers, and that does not simplify precisely the transits. In relation to the associated investment, what we propose are different phases. We are planning a step-by-step intervention, because we are aware of the budgetary problems that the administrations are experiencing at this time. We make a flexible proposal to descale investments in later phases, which allows to modulate the financial burdens associated with the operation, and in this way already in the first phase the underground access of the high speed is enabled, and would be completed at the time of the commissioning of the Basque Y. From there, with additional deadlines, the rest of the actions would be carried out, and their funding, as I say, is facilitated by stages. But the Basque Government's proposal also includes technical improvements that make it possible to simplify various aspects of infrastructure construction, staying well below the 450 million that the Ministry of Development had on the table, and which has as its final solution: 450 million are the definitive solution that has been proposed since Fomento; we are below that, and we make a realistic, clear, technically solvent proposal. What is a pity is that you have to explain this in the gallery in this way, Mrs. Ruiz, because it is explained much better and looks much better with plans, with diagrams, with slides that allow you to explain what is left of urban integration, what is the solution of some, what is the solution of others... And I had prepared it with all the affection for you, for the members of the commission, because you had asked me for a commission appearance for Tuesday afternoon, which I had prepared, I say, with much affection and much illusion and with all the luxury of graphic details to explain to you this solution and the work that we carry with the ministry and that we continue to work with the ministry. Because the ministry accepts this proposal, Mrs. Ruiz. Be well aware of what the last hour of things is like. As I say, I had everything prepared, and you without notice, well, you put this inquiry on me and removed the appearance, which made me very sorry. But for that we are, to do things as you ask. In any case, with the permission of the President, I would like to make available to your ladies and gentlemen the graphic document showing all the solutions for entry to Bilbao, because I think it is something of interest. And also this pen drive, so that it can be distributed to all who are interested in comparing what solutions are arranged for Bilbao. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u154	Thank you. Madame Ruiz, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u155	Yes, Mrs. Oregi, the appearance I postponed, I didn't withdraw it. That in the first place. Secondly, what would have been really appropriate would have been that you had appeared at your own request, and that the documentation that you leave here now would have been known by me in the committee and not in the newspaper. That would have been the right thing to do. He says the proposal didn't fit them. Yeah. What he says nothing about, and I have told him expressly in my speech, is what is being reconsidered following the ministry's report with all the technical, security, budgetary, feasibility problems... It's also very detailed! It's not a light report! It's just that concrete and detailed... It is not a matter of making here now a technical description that if a drawer fits in another drawer. I think this has to be kept at other levels of debate, and that's what... And I don't underestimate ETS technicians, but much less those of the ministry. And I don't know how you ignore a report like that. I don't think he said anything about that. But, anyway, despite the technical issue, which is not a minor issue, it is very important, you follow, and it is the skill that we are not going to leave you..., that here you do not commit, and that is why I will have to make a motion to know if you are willing to commit budgetly to the subterration of high speed in Bilbao. Because in Bilbao City Hall at least we've ripped him off... I don't know if that paper will take him away from him by the wind, but a commitment has been ripped off. That is why I was so surprised that Mr Aburto at his briefing breakfast was not able to allude to that commitment in the plenary of the city hall, and at the request of journalists' questions he was not able to say so! He wasn't able to say it. But, of course, it is already different, I was no longer before the representatives of the Bilbaos, but above all the PNV there, in Ercilla. Things change. I sincerely miss you, for you to be credible and this is a real country project, I miss a leadership by the city council and the mayor to get budgetary commitment from all the institutions, including the Basque Government, to finance the underground. And in that yes we are all, but it is that you do not say it with the same clarity as we do. They don't say it, I've told them before! With my taxes – which I am Bilbao – I want to pay part of the underground because it is very important for Bilbao, very important at the urban level, at the social level, at the strategic level, at the city level, but you do not seem to be in the same. That's what I do to you. And you don't recognize it's a matter of time and money, I mean. And happy that things are still as they are, and with a government in office, but I no longer want to think about whether we introduce new variables, with new government compositions, with other political actors, where the high-speed underground in Bilbao will remain, where it will remain. And look, when we talk about underworld in Bilbao... You because you are from Eibar, but for those of Bilbao the high-speed underground is important, but underground that depends on the PNV and that has not yet been done, and we have been bus station for more than ten years. And that only depends on the city council and the PNV. I know this is not the subject of this debate, but when we talk about underground and about credibility and political will to do things, then, look, that would be a good example of how you would be able to bury the high-speed train in the village as well. I insist, we will have to make a motion to make it clear to everyone in Bilbao and to all the Basques that the Basque Government wants to contribute money from the taxes of the Basques and the Bilbaos to bury the high speed, because it is a country project, strategic. Not only do we want Ave: we want Ave as soon as possible, and it will come into operation. And they have to recognize that in order for that to happen, we have to cooperate economically with the Basques and the Bilbaos, and we need to be able to be, too, and that also means more time. And they don't say that in the gallery, and they don't commit. I'm saying the mayor's thing the other day at Bilbao City Hall, so I think it was almost a lockdown. Let's see what you guys do next week.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Ruiz. Your time is up. Mrs. Oregi, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u157	Thanks again. It is incomprehensible, Mrs Ruiz, incomprehensible, because you claim that you have been a councilwoman of the Bilbao City Council and that you also defend Bilbao, but the truth is that I had doubts. I asked specifically, I said, "Christina..." I didn't know you, I knew you here. He said, "Christine comes from Bilbao City Hall, right?". Yeah. What a weird thing! Why are you committed to torpedoing the project of undergrounding the entrance of the TAV in Bilbao? Why? I didn't understand it, I really didn't understand it, and after hearing it, I understand it even less. You tell me about a project of your own, of surprise, of pimp, apparent, idyllic..., you called me naive, that technical things have another seriousness and such. Well, anyway, I'm totally convinced that technical things are very serious. I always approach them with a technical approach. The project is cool and apparent, I share with you; idyllic, nothing. It's realizable. And it's not a surprise project of its own either! I'm telling you, we're working hand in hand with the ministry. What you call the "technical report" all the time, sacrosanct, is a thing called "technical note" that you don't even have a signature. It is a thing called "Note on the proposal of the Basque Government for the Bilbao station and execution phases". And it's December. December. After that we have continued to work, and that note has another technical note from the Basque Government and ETS that says "Explanations to the technical note". And that's solved at the technical meetings between Adif and ETS, and they're stuffing and they're solving and they're approaching technical positions. On January 26 I was in the ministry again with the minister. On January 26 we were both, with our teams, gathered in the afternoon, and their group, or part of their group, had been in the morning (actually, Mrs. Llanos; Mrs. Ruiz did not, but the others were in the morning) trying to get the minister in the afternoon to tell me that they did not want to bury the train... [[Berber]]
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u158	Nerea, it's not your turn. Please, it's not your turn. It's not your turn, please!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u159	I don't know, I don't know what you meant by that there. Or they'd probably be talking about other things and high politics, I don't know. What I do know is what happened at the afternoon meeting, and what I do know is that we continue to collaborate and that we continue to work, and that the ministry assumes that the solution buried in Bilbao is feasible, it is possible, and that if the Basque institutions, with the Bilbao City Council and the Government working hand in hand, as we are doing, we are ready to continue working and it is our clear and determined bet, the ministry also supports it. This is it. Therefore, I do not know why we are committed to trying to throw stones on our roof and to try to bury the solution of the entrance to Bilbao, which we do not bury. You try, Mrs. Ruiz... I encourage you to build. It's much more fun and much more productive to build than to destroy, help than to stifle. That famous report, that technical note, remains that, a technical note. I would also like to know where the commission came from for someone in the ministry to put on paper all the possible glues, after the news that had appeared in the newspapers had appeared. In any case, I ask you, please, not to spoil the good relations we have between the two administrations. Assume that the phase of the has not passed, that we are at another time. All but you, who do not really understand, why are you trying to block a solution that, as you yourself acknowledge and your group recognizes, is much better for Bilbao, is feasible, is possible, and we are also talking about a work of general interest, competence of the Spanish State, for which we are asking less investment than the ministry itself has proposed, of 450 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-04.u160	Thank you, Mrs. Oregi. [[Berber]] A ver, Mrs. Llanos, please, what do you want? Because of the act? A ver, please, you don't have a word. You don't have a word. Every time a person is referred to him, there's no pussy. [[Berber]] He didn't say that, if you didn't understand, he didn't... [[Berber]] You don't have a word, Mrs. Llanos. You don't have a word. Mrs. Llanos, you don't have a word. You don't have a word! Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and twenty-four in the afternoon.
