ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u0	Good morning, everyone. The whole meeting will begin. And before we begin, we'll have a minute's silence for the last attack in Turkey. [[Pause]] I inform you that two, eight, and ninth points have been withdrawn from the subject list. First point in theme list: "Religion of the Committee of Incomprehensibility, Confessionum Figueroa and Josu Estarrona Elizdo members' compatibility condition. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to vote for the resolution? On the contrary? No? We'll simply vote for the Bill of the Union Committee, except for the congresses that relate to the judgment. The rest of us can vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 72; supporters of 72; counters, 0; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u1	Therefore, judgment is unanimously approved. Third point in theme list: "The dispensation of the Confederation, Security, and Justice Committee, made upon the Presumption of the Law of the People of Law. Discipline and final resolution. Any members of the board would like to defend their judgment? No? Misto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u2	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, everyone. Counselors, Mr. Lehendakari. The Law on People's Legislative Initiative of the Basque Country regulates the form of legislative participation of the citizens of the Basque Country. More than a quarter of a century has passed since the adoption of a law which, in our view, has been overly restrictive throughout this time for the participation of citizens in parliamentary life and which, in any case, has remained old and should be updated. It is a clearly insufficient and obstructive law to meet and facilitate the current desire for political participation of citizens. I mean, we had an old law that was supposed to fit in with the new times. In recent times, citizens have shown one way or another their discontent with the imperfections and narrowness of the democratic system and have shown their desire to participate directly in public affairs. Based on these reflections, UPyD records a proposed law to update this law. The aim is to facilitate the participation of citizens in matters of interest to them, to improve existing instruments to bring the institutions closer to the citizens and to promote or facilitate their participation in public affairs affecting them; to enable citizens and social groups to take part in the legislative function, making it easier for them to propose and defend initiatives which can then be approved by the Basque Parliament, the ultimate representative of citizens. The ends of this legal proposition were as follows: political approaches the citizens of the Basque Parliament, and facilitates the intervention of the citizens in the Basque Parliament. And we've achieved these ends. It was therefore a question of bringing politics closer to the citizens, of regenerating and widening democracy, of facilitating the participation of citizens in parliamentary life, of removing the obstacles that exist so that citizens can participate in parliamentary life, that citizens understand that Parliament is theirs, not a strange or distant place to their interests and proposals. Obviously, to achieve these objectives, this legal change that we are going to adopt today is not enough; other reforms and other measures will have to be proposed. This is the fundamental thing I have learned during these years of parliamentary work: political parties are indispensable, but the real change that politics needs is that the political parties really put the interests of the citizens before their own and always think in the general interest of the country. Usually, the truth is, this doesn't happen. What were the initial proposals of this bill submitted at the time by UPyD? The reduction of the number of signatures needed to present a popular legislative initiative from 30,000 to 6,000. Extension of the topics on which an ILP could be paid; for example, an ILP could be presented with the aim of modifying the Basque electoral system, among other topics. Participation of the committee to present, explain and defend its proposal in plenary, presentation and commission. The reduction of the obstacles to the processing of an ILP, the fact that a pending bill or an already debated PNL would not prevent the submission of an ILP that could deal with the same subject. The inclusion of foreigners with legal residence in Spain as persons who can sign a popular legislative initiative. And the use of electronic signature in the subscription of support to the ILP. These, among others, were the measures that we intended to include in this legal reform. Almost all of our objectives have been achieved. The signatures necessary to present an ILP will finally be 10,000 and the promoter committee will be able to present the initiative in plenary, to appear in the presentation if requested by a majority of groups, to re-defend the proposal in the parliamentary committee and, finally, to intervene in the plenary in which the final legal amendment is approved, and to give its opinion on the changes finally achieved. In addition, some obstacles to the processing of an ILP have been reduced. And foreigners will be able to sign a popular legislative initiative. These are the objectives we have achieved. Moreover, all I have to thank the rest of the groups is the work done in the presentation and the agreements reached, which finally allow us to have a new law of popular legislative initiative, much more advanced, progressive and facilitating the indispensable participation of citizens in political and parliamentary life. These are, therefore, the objectives we have achieved. Nothing more, and many thanks to all the groups for their participation in this very interesting debate and in the achievements achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u3	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u4	Good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Lehendakari, counselor, counselor, ladies and gentlemen, good morning to you all. The non-legislative proposal installed in the House since the beginning of the legislature, with a complicated course, today sees the light. I say complicated journey, not by the final stage and by the agreements reached, but because it has been dictated twice in committee, which draws attention. But, well, the thing is, you'll finally see the light. There have been various presentation meetings and work done by all to improve popular legislative initiative, and above all in order to broaden the possibilities of citizens' use and access to this type of political initiative, which needed reform. It is clear that parliamentary action must be important, but that citizenship is progressing in all kinds of institutions and in the legislative and regulatory fields. People's legislative initiative is an instrument that complements parliamentary action and we have to say that it enriches it. We, in relation to this initiative, this proposal for a law, in its day we presented the articles – it was not a very long law; for the matter that had to be regulated, sufficient – 11 amendments. The amendments, along with those of the other groups, have had a different course of action: sex, accepted others, withdrawn on the basis of normal legislative negotiations and agreements reached between one group and another. We have only one amendment to Article 1. We do so for legal certainty; in that regard we maintain that amendment to Article 1. Our amendment, in relation to legitimization, says that all persons who, in their political status as Basques, enjoy the right of active suffrage and are registered in the electoral census are entitled to exercise popular legislative initiative. Article 1 of the Act goes a little further, apart from this consideration: "In addition, persons who, by not being deprived of their political rights and having the minimum age laid down in the electoral legislation to exercise the right to vote, are duly registered as domiciled in a municipality of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country and who are citizens of a Member State of the European Union or legally resident in accordance with the legislation on foreign affairs shall be entitled to exercise this popular legislative initiative." We believe that there is no legal certainty in this second part of Article 1. We would have given concrete expression to the legitimacy in relation to the political status of Basques as needed for the elections to this House, and in that sense it is the discrepancy. A legal discrepancy, in any case, that is there, but that will not prevent us from voting in favour of the whole of the law. We have assumed and accepted that there is a hyperrepresentation of the promoter committee, which we believe minimizes somewhat the role of parliamentarians in relation to work on the basis of the popular legislative initiative; a sort of hyperrepresentation throughout the legislative work on the initiative. Most groups have taken it that way and will have no greater problem if we accept it. We think that there is little such presence of a collective, that it already has and that it already had its role, but, in any case, there is the agreement and we assume it and will vote in favour. In short, a proposal for a law made by Mr Maneiro in his day, which prompted the initiative of the government – as we recalled in the consideration with the reading of the Government's criterion – and which today we will vote in this plenary with the changes and agreements you know, and which we have worked in paper and in committee (in committee, twice also) since October 17, 2013 (almost three years), when it was taken into consideration. You see, an important and also legally complex law, which has had almost three years of processing. Paradoxically, other important and complex legal bills do not run the same fate as being able to have a calm, sustained and hasty debate that binds the parliamentary agreement. Four extensions of the deadline for amendments were granted to this proposal (14 articles). And these four extensions of the deadline for amendments normally led to the agreement having presided over this final moment of its processing. That's a question to think about, isn't it, ladies and gentlemen? Well, with the exception of Article 1 and our amendment to it, we shall vote in favour of the text adopted in committee and tabled by the UPyD Group in its day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u5	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Collect EH. Lopez de Munna, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u6	Good morning, everyone. You already know me. You know, it's my choice to place the theme in the right ideological context, so I'll make a really small entrance. As you already know me, you will know that I like to raise in the debates a previous ideological field on the subject to be discussed. And, since this could be my last intervention in full, I would not want to miss the opportunity to do so with something as important as the participation of the people in politics and institutions, although I promise I will be brief. And I hope that the next parliamentary term will lead to further debates as interesting as the one that was opened with this initiative to amend the law. Gaur hona dakargunak ez dauka zerikisirik demokrazia parte-hartzailearekin, bere definizi klasikoa hartzen badugu oinarri, as it does not at any time propose to create spaces of information, debate and decision, not even of citizen co-decision. This is something else. Ultimately, it is the political groups represented here that continue to co-opt the spaces that I have mentioned before and the citizens, in this case, only the option of the hope that what is proposed will be respected, even improved, by the groups, or, on the contrary, the right to anger with the political groups that use popular legislative initiatives to bring the sardine to its sardine and do not respect the initial spirit of the initiative presented. That, as always, falls within the responsibility of the different political groups. Participatory democracy is a means not only to bring politics closer or to collect citizens' initiatives, but participatory democracy takes on an extra commitment to empower and respect citizens' decisions on different issues affecting citizens. Esan dudan guztiarekin ez diot garrantzirik kendu nahi adotu dogun testuari. Demokrazia delegate Honetan zirrikitu txiki horiek bilatu nahi ditugu behintzat, jendartareen part-hartzea hobetu dadin. We have come to substantially improve one of the very few crevices that allows this model of delegated democracy for citizens to take part in legislative processes. Nothing more, but nothing less too. As I said in the committee, I hope that none of us here will understand that we are going to solve the crisis of the system in which we are imbued, nor will we regain the confidence of citizens in political decision-making, although, as I said in that committee, I sincerely believe that today we are opening one of the doors of Parliament to all citizens. In relation to the law, I will say that the reading that we have done since Euskal Herria Bildu in relation to the points that we and we proposed as amendments to the original text with the intention not only to improve it, but to promote points of encounter between the groups that aspired to transform the former law and that, as can be seen in the final text, have been incorporated, is the following, and we wanted it to be recorded. We have managed, together with other groups, to bring down the limits of the collection of signatures. It has gone from 30,000 to 10,000, which, although it was not what we originally proposed since Euskal Herria Bildu, as we were proposing an even greater drop, we do believe it is right that the initial requirement has been reduced by two thirds and that today citizens have more facilities to present popular legislative initiatives than those they had previously had, and, above all, that the limits that can be set (in this case at the level of numbers) cease to be, or at least be smaller. I hope that the next parliamentary term we can be pleased to have more debates on a proposal from the citizens than we have been able to enjoy in this one. Another development is that earlier such initiatives could only be signed by those registered in the census and it is already those registered in the municipal register who can participate in this whole process. This not only opens the door to the participation of migrants or those who are not registered in the census, but also opens up a very interesting debate about the political role and the active and passive political rights that these people must have, not only in relation to the ILP, but also in the whole political future and in the decisions made by the institutions of the place where they live. I believe that this is very good news, news that I also hope it will be accompanied by many more in this regard and let us move forward in the total recognition of all political rights for all people, regardless of their origin or social class. Another of the achievements proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu that we find very interesting and reflected in this law is that it is helped by physical means, not only economic, that people or the committee promoting the popular legislative initiative can use municipal public spaces and also count on support in advice from public institutions – call municipalities or call other public institutions, starting with this same Parliament – to be able to collect signatures and inform citizens, thus facilitating the process of socialization of the initiative and ending the purely bureaucratic obstacles, which will help to become aware and to have an opinion on what is proposed since the initiative intended to bring to this Parliament. Another point that we think is very important, and this has been reflected in Article 2(h), is to put an ethical limit on proposals for popular legislative initiatives. Not all issues can be collected or addressed through popular legislative initiatives. In politics we can and must talk about everything, yes, but everything that seeks to limit the economic, social or political rights of Basque citizens has a limit here and that limit has been set by Euskal Herria Bildu. What's this supposed to mean? That the famous initiative of the former mayor of Gasteiz could not even be dealt with for pretending to violate the rights of our Gasteiz neighbours. I leave for the end perhaps the greatest achievement, in my opinion, and also as an amendment by Euskal Herria Bildu. It is the committee that can not only collect signatures, bring them to Parliament, register them and there end their participation in this whole process, but that will be able to participate with voice and give us their opinion in each of the processes of processing the future law, which, as I have said before, seems to us today to open another door for participation in Basque citizenship. Let's hope it's not the last one. Imagine debates based on popular legislative initiatives to talk about decent pensions, decent minimum wages, the right to work, decent housing, a bill to advance family conciliation rights, a bill to remove barriers to inequality between men and women. My hair is set on me as scarves of imagining the ordinary people, citizens and citizens, who come here, defend in this House the reason for their request, participate in the work of the law and then be able to sing to them the forty or sing to us the forty if you and we do not meet the demands that these people bring to this House. And, best of all, those people, now they will, have the right to speak to them from the same place as I do now. The truth is, that's the only reason I think this law is worth it. Finally, I don't want to miss the chance to ask EAJ a question and ask him again: Is there any commitment out of here today? Can we use the open one to ease the process of receiving email signatures? In conclusion, I would like to thank the groups for their willingness to reach agreements. I sincerely believe that this is a good agreement and that it opens the door to others. We and we will, of course, vote in favour of this law. And, as we did in the previous committee, we maintain our amendment to Article 2, so we will abstain both in Articles 1, 2, 4 and 5, which was where we maintained our own amendments, which were withdrawn to favour the agreement. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u7	Thank you, Mr. Lopez de Munai. Euzko Abertzaleak, explanation of vote... We're going over to the answering shift. Misto-UPyD. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u8	Thank you, President. Briefly, to repeat that the adoption of this initiative is an undeniable political success and that from now on we will have a much more advanced, much more progressive law, which will allow for better and greater participation of citizens in public affairs. I believe, therefore, that we can be proud. And I personally am proud to have registered this initiative a few years ago; in particular, almost three years ago. The question is what has happened so that the adoption of this initiative has been so slow over time, compared to other laws that are passed in weeks. But in any case, I think we can be satisfied. Mr Barrio was talking about the hyperrepresentation of the promoter committee in relation to the Basque Parliament, both in the committee and in the presentation. I think it's a success, I think it's very good. When a popular legislative initiative is drafted and registered, the logical and normal thing is to allow that commission, those people who have obtained the necessary signatures, to present their own initiative in plenary, to explain exactly what is intended, so that, first of all, the groups can hear what their demands are. This is a very positive thing. The strange thing is that this has not been done before, considering that we are already in 2016. I see no problem, but quite the contrary, in that this committee can also participate in the work of the paper when a majority of groups so request; in that this committee can participate in it and also explain to the groups what its approaches are. Nor is there any problem, but quite the contrary, so that this committee can also explain its positions in the relevant parliamentary committee and even position itself in relation to the amendments tabled by the other groups or in relation to the arguments of the other groups. It's good for everyone, it's enriching. It is good to listen to the promoter's committee, and also to hear their possible complaints or criticisms because they have not accepted perhaps some of their approaches. And that the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection should close the debate in plenary also seems to us to be a great step forward. You don't have to be afraid to listen to citizenship firsthand. Not only what the citizens tell us on the street, but what they can tell us publicly in Parliament, whether in committee, in plenary or in the paper. This is a very positive thing. Fear must therefore be removed. There is no need to be afraid of being taken to the contrary; there is no need to be afraid to hear from the committee that they do not agree with some of the approaches, in the same way that we, the political representatives, should not be afraid to be able to position ourselves in any case against a certain popular legislative initiative that might come forward. Mr López de Munain himself, on the one hand, said that the initiative was insufficient and that it was ultimately the political groups that decided the laws that were passed, but, on the other hand, he was talking about a limit, a limit set by the groups themselves, in relation to certain popular legislative initiatives. Indeed, that is representative democracy. They can bring us the initiatives they consider, we listen and, based on that, we raise our arguments. Obviously, this legal change is not enough, another type of reform must be promoted. This is not going to save democracy either in Euskadi or in Spain. But I think it is a very important law, which will go ahead, moreover, with the approval of all the groups, even with the approval of those groups that initially showed themselves clearly against some of the postulates that included this initiative and that will finally be accepted. That is also politics, in trying to convince the rest of the groups and let us also be convinced when we see that their arguments can be interesting. A few days ago, and talking about pending issues, about pending reforms, about pending changes in politics, a friend, after Sunday's election, reflecting on the results of these elections, said to me: "I prefer to vote for those who steal from me to rule me out." I believe that the essential political change, both in Euskadi and in Spain, is that citizens freely vote for all those political representatives who aim to improve democracy. When we don't hear someone say, "I'd rather vote for those who steal from me than rule me out," I think we'll have made a lot of progress. That would be a substantial change in politics, both in the Basque Country and in Spain. In any case, and aside from philosophical reflections, thank you to all the groups for their work during all these months and thank you for your support for this initiative and for all your arguments raised in the presentation and in the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u9	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Mr. Barrio, representative of the Basque Potula, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u10	Thank you, Madam President. And from the seat, because I'm going to be very brief. I would like to thank Mr Maneiro for his last thought, which is interesting, and to answer him in relation to what I described as the hyperrepresentation of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. I believe that there is a hyperrepresentation, it is projected throughout all that is going to be parliamentary work, from the beginning and throughout all parliamentary work. And we think that this hyperrepresentation somewhat minimizes the work of those who have been elected to do that legislative function in relation to that issue. Indeed, the momentum of such initiatives. But I think that this path, in union with the committee promoting it and the paper or the parliamentary committee, I think it is oversized, oversized. In any case, we will support that leadership. But we understand that having reduced the signatures for this popular legislative initiative from 30,000 to 10,000, it will be much more flexible, it will be much easier, much more dynamic and the initiative itself. In that sense it was the approach of hyperrepresentation, we are convinced that it has. Well, it has been an assignment that has had to be made on the basis of the agreement, of the progress of these kinds of parliamentary initiatives, but we think that it has been somewhat exaggerated on that issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u11	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. The representative of the EH Collector must not speak a word. End of discussion, we'll start our vote. First we vote for the Euscal Group 11th Amendment of the first article. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u12	So he didn't accept it. We'll next vote for the 1st article of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 44; counters 10; whites, 0; Abstations, 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u13	As a result, the first article of the law has been accepted. Next up, we vote for the 23rd EH Collect Group to article 2. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 20; the opponents are 54; white; 0; abstentions are 0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u14	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for Article 2 of the Law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u15	Therefore in the second part of the law. the article was accepted. After that, we're going to vote for articles four and five of the law, which EH Collect has asked to get out. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 0; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 20.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u16	As a result, four and five articles have been accepted. The articles of a judgment which are without correction, namely, that of 3.14, 4 and 5, have been reallocated, the first and second additional regulations, the unimpeached regulation, the last regulation, and the name of the law. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters, 74; counters, 0; white, 0; abstations, 0.1
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u17	The articles were unanimously accepted. Therefore the Law of the People of Law is approved. Next, vote. Basque Socialists. Mr. Unzalu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u18	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief physician, Congressman, good morning. We have adopted with great consensus the proposed law amending the Law on People's Legislative Initiative 8/1986. It is a bill that was adopted in October 2013 and has had a long history, with some delays, which have actually contributed to improving content from a technical and political consensus point of view, as seen in the vote. In the 30 years since the original law was passed, our society has changed in many respects in a conspicuous way. Apart from technological advances, one of the aspects in which our citizens have made the most progress is in their formation, which undoubtedly increases their critical and demanding character with the Administration. Our challenge is, therefore, to increase relations and dialogue between the Administration and the citizenry; to raise, in reality, the quality of our democracy. We Socialists committed ourselves to this when we were in the government. It was the government of Patxi López and Idoia Mendia that created the Irekia portal, which was a pioneer in promoting transparency in the administration, in stimulating the participation of citizens and in promoting collaboration between the administration and citizens. In line with these actions, we face the challenge of updating, improving and making more visible the citizens' initiative, and in a spirit of collaboration and consensus we have worked on the proposed law today adopted. Socialists believe that representative democracy should not be constrained by citizen participation in public affairs. I sincerely believe that the objective has been achieved in general terms. Perhaps some of us would have wanted to go further there and others would have stayed further behind, but, as I said earlier, the spirit of consensus has prevailed, and this I think is a value in itself. The Socialists have seen reflected the 10 amendments we made to the text, because they have been taken over or have been fucked. And our initiatives have basically been reflected in three aspects. The text adopted gives rise to the participation not only of those entitled to vote in our Community, but also of those who meet the requirements of being members of European Union countries or who legally reside in the Basque Autonomous Community in accordance with the legislation on foreigners. And we think – I insist, it was one of our amendments – that this is an important step forward for all citizens to participate in initiatives that they may consider interesting. To facilitate these popular initiatives, the requirement for signatures has been lowered to 10,000 since the current 30,000. We too proposed a reduction in this sense and we are perfectly reflected in the final text. It has also sought to promote the participation and defence of initiatives by its promoters, another objective which the Socialist Party had also set itself. That is why their presence has been regulated both in plenary and in committee and presentation. Enabling channels for the views and assessments of promoters to be expressed in this Parliament also seems to us to be an important step forward. In conclusion, I believe that good work has been done, which will improve the quality of our democracy. I would like to highlight the willingness of all speakers to dialogue in the presentation, which has earned us the result that we have made this progress in this legislature to enable citizen participation. In the first speeches they have referred to the delay that this law has suffered and it is true, because a first opinion was adopted on June 5, 2015, for a time slept in the limbo of the righteous and – I think it is fair to admit – the spokesman of the Nationalist Group, Mr Zorrilla, and I myself promote the final point of this law, expanding the consensus that had been reached in June 2015 and also enabling the final approval that we have made today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u19	Thank you, Mr. Unzalu. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u20	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Chief of Investigation, Congressmen, good morning to all of you. As you have the opportunity to test, our team has given a vote for the 13th June, the Security and Justice Committee, to the purpose of regulating the legislative of the people. This was initially raised in mid-2013. Here different reflections have been made – it has been three years – and it is good to reflect. Sometimes we attack ourselves with the fact that parliamentary processing is slow; here we have an example of a law of 14 articles that has been in processing for three years, and, despite the avatars – although Mr. Maneiro is not here, Mr. Unzalu was referring to it – and some periods of up to six months... Everyone who thinks about who is responsible for this delay. Finally, as Mr Unzalu said, this law will see the light with a broad consensus. As I said, this proposal was initiated as an amendment to the Law on People's Legislative Initiative, Law 8/1986 of 26 June (last Sunday turned 30), and, after the work carried out in the paper, it has become a new Law on Basque People's Legislative Initiative, which we believe is a fairly advanced law in this area, regardless of the level of satisfaction of each group, and whose objective – I believe shared by all parliamentary groups – is to meet social demand and facilitate citizen participation in political life, and more specifically in this area in the legislative initiative work. It says a lot that of the 44 amendments initially tabled, only two have been maintained for this plenary (one from the People's Group and one from EH Bildu), so I believe that the important degree of consensus reached in this area is evident. Briefly, with regard to the amendment of the People's Group to article 1, we have voted against because we do recognize the right to participate in a LP for all persons legally living and working in Euskadi, not just those registered in the electoral census. And with regard to Bildu's amendment to Article 2, we have also voted against it, since it is a matter regulated by the Statute of Gernika (Article 27.4) and there are also state and European rules which set general limits to be respected. However, apart from its amendment, as you are well aware, it has been incorporated in article 2 with regard to initiatives contrary to human rights; not so with regard to the generic appeal that they made to subjective rights, where I believe that they have not properly calibrated the possible effects that this might have. Our group tabled the most amendments (a total of 16). We have made an effort and at the last meeting of the presentation we reached an agreement that has led us to withdraw the two amendments that we had initially reserved, relating to the composition of the committee, to the people who could join that committee, and to its participation in the parliamentary process, I believe that I am contributing in this aspect rationality and pragmatism. The contributions of all the legislative groups have been collected, and we have acquired an important balance between several aspects. Briefly, because it has been repeated here, we would summarize the most important developments that this new law introduces in four aspects: The number of signatures or support required is reduced from 30,000 to 10,000. From the 5,000 that Bildu raised, to the 6,000 of UPyDs, the 10,000 that this group initially raised (with territorial remedial factors, so that they were not purely local issues, like the European regulation on this matter), 1% of the Socialist Group and 2% of the People's Group, in the end we have reached a figure (10,000) which, compared with other communities, with other states, I believe is reasonable and rational. One of the remarkable innovations of this law is to lower the necessary number of signatures, from 30,000 to 10,000. Secondly, it is open to other people so that they can sign the initiatives: any citizen or older citizen who is registered with the flag of a Basque municipality, provided that he or she belongs to a Member State of the European Union or legally resides in Euskadi. That is to say, not only those registered in the Basque electoral census, but all those living and working in Euskadi will be able to exercise this right. Thirdly, an operational and effective balance has been sought in the participation of the promoters during the parliamentary process of the initiative (I believe that we have brought rationality to the hyperrepresentation of which Mr Barrio spoke). A balance that, by the way, will need its corresponding adaptation in the Rules of Procedure of this House. And finally, the application of the new technologies, with the possibility of electronic signature and the protection of personal data, as well as the updating of the amounts of subsidies, are included. In conclusion, all I have to do is thank you for the labor and the effort of people who have contributed to their ability. And to all the legislative members, because they have all consented in some way to obtain as great a consent as possible, in this respect to be the best law. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u21	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. Before passing to the fourth point on the subject list, the seventh has been left for another. "The Bill of Laws made by the Populous People of Euscal Act, to Socialize, and to change the 18/2008 Law of Berma on December 23. The discussion and final resolution of taking it as an excuse." You've got your criteria in the documentation that's being distributed to you. That's why we're going to argue. Which side of the world must participate, independently of the Popular Party? Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u22	Eskerrik asko, president anderea. Good morning, congressmen, chief physician. I thought the president would be there, but he seems to have been forced out of this parliament. We'll discuss again the change of December 23rd, 2008 law of Socialization, and the law of remuneration of the revenues. Today we are again debating in this Parliament the adoption of an initiative to amend the 2008 Act of 23 December, on income security and on social inclusion. The popular legislative initiative, already debated almost a year ago, was rejected in this Parliament, but it must be remembered that it was an initiative that had the support of 40,000 citizens. Herritarren ekimen legislatiboa, 40,000 herritarren zituena sinadura, hemen deuseztatua izan zen orine da la urtebete. But many citizens continue to want the system of protection in Euskadi to be strengthened and improved. Herritar askok Euskadin babes-system hobetu eta indartzea nahi du. That is why the People's Group today brings back to this House the voice of those 40,000 citizens, that voice which was silenced at the time, as I said, just a year ago. Parliamentarian Talde Popularrak berriro dakar Legebiltzarrera 40,000 herritar horien ahotsa. Eta zergatik egiten dugu hori? Uste dugulako Ganbera honetan heritar guztiak daudela ordezkatuta eta Ganbera honi dagokiola herritarren kezkak konpontzea. And we do, we bring back the voice of those 40,000 citizens, because we believe that it is in this House that we are represented the citizens to whom it is incumbent to echo the real concerns of the citizens. Jarraitzen dugu sinesten komenigaria de la herritarrak kezkatzen dituzten gaiak berriro eztabaidatzea. Well ez zitzaion kasurik egin; horregatik eskatzen dugu berriro ez geratazzea gauza bera. We continue to believe in the desirability of opening the debate on an issue that is worrying, of concern to citizens, to dry citizens, without labels. They have already been ignored once and we are asking today that they should not be ignored in this Parliament for the second time. Komenigarri eta beharrezko ikusten dugu debate lasaia irekitzea Gobernuak berak defizitak daudela onartu duen gaiari buruz. Jaun-andreok, Gobernu has onartu duena Lanbiden and gizarte-laguntzen kudeaketan arazoak daudela. We consider it appropriate and necessary to open a calm debate where the Government itself has acknowledged that there are shortcomings, ladies and gentlemen, because it is this Government that has acknowledged that there is a problem in Lanbide in the management of social aid. It has cost him, but he has finally had to surrender to the evidence of the data. This government began by refusing to change the system, and then accepting to improve it, perhaps, as it was saying, in the light of the evidence of its own data, of the official data it was sending to questions primarily from the People's Group in this Parliament. Mr Aburto thus told us that it was necessary to improve the Basque system of social benefits, even showing his willingness to reflect on the GIR in order to improve the system. Mr Toña, who took over Mr Aburto, also began by saying that the RGI had to be updated, and then already recognize without caps that the companies were passing from Lanbide. And finally, the Deputy Employment Advisor himself questioned Lanbide's effectiveness by ensuring that his children were permanently in employment portals on the Internet and they were not even in the head to point at Lanbide to seek employment, among other things because he was barely there. And the lehendakari, in an outburst of pragmatism, which was due to pass soon, also told us that it was necessary to increase control over social aid, because more control in social aid was more social justice. These are the things that the Government and the members of the Government have been telling us, up to Lehendakari himself, the advisers with responsibilities in this area, after initially rejecting any modification and any reflection on the Basque system of protection in order to improve it. With these precedents, we do not understand the unfavorable criterion of a government that has admitted that things do not work. We do not share the scarce arguments of this Government in its position against this initiative. This Government has not understood anything or, rather, does not want to understand anything, because it is not a question of questioning the system, but of the contrary: it is a question of improving it and strengthening it. We are talking about ensuring that our protection system can correct its inefficiencies and that aid reaches those who really need it. Now the excuse that we are being made clear in the Government's unfavourable approach is that the Government has been working for some time on a technical commission that is identifying areas for improvement and that will make a report of recommendations shortly. Man, seeing that you already recognized – not at the beginning of the legislature, when you refused to make any modification, but when you surrendered to the evidence of the data – that you had to reflect on the subject, it would have been better if you had done these duties before. What is true is that we do not have much hope either in a government that has almost gone late and wrong on many of the issues, and there is the poor balance of laws passed in this legislature, despite twisting even the uses and rules of this House. That is why we say that at good times you constitute that technical committee, which, on the other hand, may be an opportunity. And what better opportunity than today to open the debate that we are bringing, which can be opened with the approval of this initiative? It seems that we have made some progress, because less than a year ago, for the debate on the consideration of the popular legislative initiative, the Government itself, in its arguments of unfavourable criteria also to that ILP, said that it was intended to modify what was adopted by the Basque Parliament just under seven years ago and that there was not a stable period of implementation long enough to allow an assessment of the measures adopted. That is to say, it seems that you have changed your mind, because a law that was already in force for seven years could not be revised a year ago, but it seems to be, in the light of the latest data, that you decide to set up that technical commission. To know when we know your conclusions and those recommendations and where those recommendations go! It seems a priori a somewhat contradictory position with the stated approach, with the arguments put forward by this Government in order not to give effect to the popular legislative initiative. Again excuses, ladies and gentlemen, of a government that has finally had to surrender to the evidence of its own data. That is why we are calling again today for the reflection and responsibility of all the groups represented in this House, and for them to stop turning their backs once and for all on the reality of the facts, that reality which the data have been describing to us, that data which neither the Government can ever forget again. With a system that reaches the amount of EUR 133 million of undue charges, of which barely 13 % has been recovered. With a system in which abusive situations occur, which are there and cannot be ignored and, therefore, we must tackle them. And with an intermediation rate in Lanbide that barely reaches 3.2%, far from that 5% which was the target set by the government itself for this legislature. And with a system that neither the Government itself nor anyone else recognizes as valid for the search for a job, as acknowledged by the Deputy Employment Adviser himself, a member of this Government. Let us remember again, because we believe in the Euskadi protection system, that this system is one of the most advanced not only in Spain, but in the rest of Europe. The expenditure in Euskadi represents 40% of the total of Spain's minimum income for inclusion. And half of the budget of the Department of Employment and Social Policy is intended to cover these benefits: 461 million budgeted in 2016, the same as in 2015; that is, it must be remembered that in 2015 this amount was insufficient and it was necessary to enable 30 million euros more to meet the needs, to meet the obligations when setting up income guarantee income as a subjective duty. The RGI serves 136,000 people in 65,000 living units. For the People's Group, the protection system was essential; it was of course indispensable as a tool for social cohesion and the fight against poverty. But it is at times of economic crisis that the sustainability of the welfare State must be further guaranteed in order to meet those situations of need that may occur. And that is where public administrations must ensure that resources are spent efficiently, fairly and correctly and reach people who really need them. We share, as it could not otherwise be, with thousands of citizens the concern to safeguard the rights of the weakest, to correct the shortcomings detected and to avoid abusive situations. That is why this initiative has been presented, because solidarity and social justice are principles that constitute the hallmark of the identity of our society. And strengthening solidarity mechanisms means correcting the injustices of those who are currently out of the system, such as those who have a heritage of little value apart from the usual housing. A society with a true solidarity vocation must extend protection to the most vulnerable, as is the case with elderly people with difficulties and on whom, in addition, the burden of the economic crisis has fallen, making support for their families. The existence of fraud and abuse is the greatest sign of insolidity; it is therefore the responsibility of the public authorities to arbitrate the necessary mechanisms to tackle them. And true solidarity is also about giving people who receive social assistance an opportunity to get out of the system and not to be chronised and given the opportunity to have a job. You, ladies and gentlemen, I am very much afraid that today you are going to listen deaf again to thousands of citizens who want a more just system, which protects the rights of the weakest and corrects injustices, which will allow solidarity to be strengthened in times of particular difficulty. It is not a question of tightening the requirements for access to the system by leaving out the rights of the weakest. It is just the opposite: it is about ensuring a more equitable, fairer, more sustainable and more supportive system of protection. Today we have the opportunity to pave the way for the reform of the protection system in Euskadi, to correct those dysfunctions which the Government itself has acknowledged and to put it definitively at the service of employability and to promote social cohesion. And it is a mere question of political will, that will that has led some of you even to twist the Rules of Procedure of this House and go against the uses of this House to make it possible for two bills to be processed in July. I think it is no longer worth an excuse to delay the start of a debate that is on the street, which is a necessity and that all of you, in addition, in multiple statements over these years, of this parliamentary term that ends today, have recognized that we must start. Even the government itself. Therefore, we do not understand why at the time of truth you are going to take a step back. Ladies and gentlemen, today you have the opportunity to do so, but you do not believe that this is to please the PP. They will tell us that we carry this legislature with the raca-raca insistently, and we should remind them that enough legislatures; not in vain, moreover, we arrived at a pact with the Socialist Party when it was lehendakari Patxi López, Mrs Zabaleta advisor, to try to improve the system. That is what we ask again, to improve the system when deficits are detected and when we see clearly that the system does not serve the objectives entrusted to it by the law itself, which is to give people opportunities and give them a job. Therefore, this is not to please the People's Party. If you would reflect, you would give way to the processing of this initiative. I imagine that many citizens would be satisfied with their political class, expect from us more than mere political confirmation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, although I do not think this is going to be the case, I appeal again to reflection, to responsibility, to open a debate which is on the street, which is a necessity, and which all of you have in some way acknowledged, some more and others less. And even the government itself in multiple statements, and very impractical and forceful statements, has pointed out that companies pass from Lanbide or that Lanbide is absolutely inefficient to find a job. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u23	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. On the other hand, who's got to participate? Alone? UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u24	Thank you very much, President. There are several reasons why we are going to vote against the initiative put forward by the Group of the European People's Party. On the one hand, it's a matter of time, of time. There is no material time for it to be debated and agreed, so I believe that it is also demonstrated that the People's Party has no intention of discussing and agreeing on anything on this issue, but that the only thing it intends to do is to campaign; populism is called. Therefore, this would be the second reason to vote against this initiative, that the presentation of this initiative has only one objective, an electoral objective: to try to get votes now that the autonomic elections are approaching. On the other hand, this is an initiative that has recently been discussed. It is almost accurate reproduction of the ILP presented by the Aids+Justs platform, whose processing has already been rejected by this Parliament. An initiative that was not silenced, but was rejected by most groups; it was not silenced, but it was debated and the rest of the groups, including a server, put forward a number of arguments to vote against that initiative. Therefore, it was not silenced, but rejected. Another reason is that, as indicated in the Government's approach, a technical commission has already been set up within the Department of Employment and Social Policy to identify areas for improvement in the law and to report on recommendations shortly. On the other hand, the only claim of this initiative, beyond the arguments put forward by Mrs Garrido and beyond that some of the arguments that have dropped us can share, or even some of the improvements that she claims we can share, the claim that we observe in this initiative, which is drafted, is to tighten the requirements for access to GIR. I say that, beyond some aspects such as the inclusion of an economic subsidy for pensioners to face so-called energy poverty, which, by the way, could be solved by a significant increase in pensions, and in particular lower pensions, state competition that the People's Party government has refused to push forward over the past few years... Furthermore, no reference is made to the improvement in the search for employment for persons benefiting from GIR, nor to the mechanisms for improving their social integration. Mrs Garrido complains that Lanbide fails to do so, but then, when we see the proposals put forward in this initiative, there is no concrete proposal to improve employability. The RGI must effectively serve the purpose of ensuring the sustainability of the individual while performing his or her insertion itinerary, and that is where the system mainly fails. No specific measures are proposed either. We therefore, in general, reject all the amendments tabled by the People's Party. Some of us strongly reject them and others say that we do not see that they have the necessary consensus, but rather the opposite. But I say that in general they are measures that seek to tighten access and increase obligations. We cannot therefore vote in favour of this initiative. In the explanatory statement the People's Group says some interesting things that all groups can share without any doubt. The point is that then, in submitting the specific amendments, it goes towards tightening the requirements and tightening the system itself, rather than trying to extend rights. I say that it says interesting things in this explanatory statement, such as, for example, that fraud and abuse are the most insolidary and unfair thing that can exist within social policies and must be eradicated. We agree: fraud and abuse must be eradicated from political life and also tax fraud and the widespread or institutionalized corruption that we suffer in Spain as a whole. So, I here should remind the members of the People's Party of the Andratx case, the Palma Arena case, the Bonsai case, the Pokémon case, the Gürtel case, the Bárcenas case, the Bankia case, the black cards, the Punica case, box B or the tax amnesty. That is a real fraud, and we have lost millions of euros of public money in recent years. In fact, there is a recent study prepared by the University of Las Palmas that amounts to 48 billion euros the expenditure that has involved all of the Spaniards both mismanagement and political corruption; 48 billion euros annually, resulting mainly from corruption. That's where it's supposed to be. If we were to tackle not only the tax fraud that amounts to approximately EUR 60 billion per year in the whole of Spain, but we were to really tackle institutionalized political corruption, then we would have much more public money, Mrs Garrido, to allocate it to education, health and dependence. However, the People's Party has not only not raised a strong fight against political corruption, but has played a leading role in recent years. And this must also be remembered. There is only a greater fraud than the social cuts that you have applied against society over the past few years, Mrs. Garrido – because you are constantly repeating the fraud – and it is corruption that you, though not just you, have been leading over the past few years. And I believe that the Group of the European People's Party should focus on that. On the other hand, the Group of the European People's Party points out in its explanatory statement that the existence of a rule guaranteeing the rights of those most in need and ensuring greater and better coverage of such economic benefits should be further promoted. We also agree on this point. Since you govern in many Spanish autonomous communities, I humbly encourage you to implement a system similar to that of RGI in those other autonomous communities, since here you say you defend it. If they defend it, do everything possible to implement similar systems in the rest of the autonomous communities, instead of coming here to pose the toughening of certain requirements. Mrs Garrido, improve the system, of course, with the participation of all groups, with the greatest consensus and with the best of political will. The system has errors that can be perfectly modified, and Lanbide has a lot to do in relation to everything that has to do with finding employment for those people who are charging GIR and yet can't get out of that circle. There are many things to improve, but you do not propose anything relevant to improve, but quite the contrary. These are the reasons that we raise, these are about 10. All these are the reasons that we raise, the reasons why we vote against the consideration of your initiative. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u25	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing in responses, representing the population team. Mrs Garrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u26	Thank you, Madam President. On the one hand, Mr Maneiro, I thank you for the tone, because you did not use the incendiary tone and that at the same time sprayed the insult of the previous intervention. It is known that in one year you have had time to mature certain issues, both those that fall within the scope of this debate and certainly other issues, and some have rested and, therefore, have made you come out of this debate in a quieter tone, which I believe is not only thanks to me, but also to the rest of the House. When you talk about the issue of the deadline, it is an excuse, I would say, because the other time was long enough, Mr Maneiro, and you voted against it. Therefore, do not now come to me with the excuse of the deadline, because you voted against the popular legislative initiative the previous time. By the way, you are filled with talk of citizen participation, an argument that even leads you to reduce signatures from 40,000 to 10,000 in order to be able to propose an ILP, and it turns out that then here at the time of truth it gives a door to those thousands of citizens who simply wanted to improve and strengthen the protection system in Euskadi. So, I think you do too many initiatives that seem to look very good, showcase initiatives, but then you don't take them into practice yourself. Because I believe it is an absolute contradiction that a group should propose to lower the requirement for signatures to present a popular legislative initiative in this Parliament and then silence the voice of those citizens with their vote against simply initiating the debate on that particular initiative. On the other hand, Mr. Maneiro, there would be time. You know as well as I that you have had to submit yesterday amendments to two bills that were referred late and badly by this executive, that you have failed to meet your own commitments in the legislative calendar, because of 29 committed bills – then were 31 – to today only 11 have been passed; then you would have to add those that were not in that legislative calendar, which are four more (the three of budgets and the one of extra payments), but we all also know that this government has had to withdraw five bills, the last one yesterday in the face of the failure that it was going to have today in this House. Therefore, Mr Maneiro, there could be time, from the very moment that July has been empowered to process two bills because they have wanted various groups represented in this House, namely the Nationalist Party and Bildu. If this is an issue that we consider to be of interest, if we really believe what we have said or have believed on the one hand the data and what we have supported the different speakers... You have not been much in the committees where we have dealt with these issues, but, where you have been, you have been critical with the Basque Employment Service and with the results of the Basque Employment Service. I therefore believe that it would be appropriate to allow the debate to be opened, and then we will see where the debate is going. But it is that you today, voting against the consideration of this initiative, do what you do is steal the debate and, I say again, silence the voice of thousands of citizens who want things to change. He was telling us about populism. Mr. Maneiro, we're not going to do populism, because we're neither populist nor need it. I believe that this has become clear to me, moreover, as a result of the results of last Sunday. And when you say to me, "It's that what needs to be done is that the system meets the goal of employability," of course it does. That is something that we have supported in our speeches throughout the previous parliamentary term – that is why we made concrete changes with the Socialist Party – and we have maintained it over these three years. But for the system to work, the initial premise is that in the system are the people who really have to be. Those people who are in the system and should leave because they do not meet the requirements, or are committing abuses, that there are, or those who stay out, as the example I have set of a person who has a storage room, apart from the usual housing, and currently with the existing regulation remains out. Therefore, we, the hardening of the requirements do not: we seek that the system obeys what it has to obey, which is a criterion of social justice. Reminds me of cases of corruption. I'm not going in. Because, in addition, you repeat this theme. Man, I could also list those we have nearby, which sometimes already has them in his head. I could also list those close by, on a question of proximity. And precisely because this has been one of the citizens' first concerns, it has been the People's Party that has had the courage to adopt a package of measures throughout this legislature to combat corruption, wherever it is, in the party that is and where it comes from. He will not have a chance, but let us hope that in his political speeches he will approve in the coming years that line the People's Party has taken. Finally, I end by saying that I regret that today we are losing a chance again. But it is lost again by the citizens, here it does not lose the People's Party. We will continue to propose such initiatives, because we believe that they are the initiatives we need. We believe that it is the right initiatives at a time when Lanbide's operation is clearly being questioned, that the Government itself has questioned it, that we have criticized it, that it is not working. We are seeing that the system of social assistance takes a huge amount of public resources, which is very good, we have to do so, but that is why we must make every effort to ensure that this money really reaches the people who need it. I therefore regret that today, once again, we do not hear the voice of those citizens in a chamber that what we should do is to hear the voice of so many citizens who simply propose that a debate be opened to improve and strengthen a system in which we believe and trust, but that is precisely why, because we believe and trust, we want to do it better.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u27	Thank you, Mrs Garrido. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u28	Thank you very much, President. Mrs Garrido, you and you can present this same initiative or any other initiative as many times as you consider necessary; we have no problem with each and every local or autonomous election you present a similar initiative. No big deal. We go down to the rostrum, and, besides, you see that I always do it alone on the turn against, because I like to face things face to face instead of leaving my explanations for later and conceal. I face face to face: I go down to the rostrum and explain why UPyD is voting against this initiative. You've been talking for three or four minutes about the deadline. This is one of the many reasons I have explained to vote against this initiative, because the debate on this initiative such a day as today shows not so much that there is not enough time to approve the amendments that were necessary, but above all, what shows is that you did not intend this initiative to go forward. In other words, it was a clearly electoral initiative. I don't know if my speech or tone is usually incendiary – I don't think so – but, in any case, the arguments I have put forward are the reasons why we voted against this initiative. They are no excuses, we do not need to make any excuses to vote for or against any initiative. If we like an initiative, we vote in favour; if we see that we do not like it, we vote against it. They're not excuses. Similarly, excuses can be put by others who have responsibilities in the Government or who affect them in other circumstances. We, in that sense, are free. And, I say, I have explained the reasons why we are voting against this initiative. This initiative, if compared to what we have discussed before, raises the opposite. We are proposing an initiative to facilitate citizen participation; you are proposing an initiative to tighten certain requirements for access to income security income. What we want with the earlier firm reduction initiative is for the more popular legislative initiatives to be presented. This does not mean that we are going to accept all of them, that we are going to give nihil obstat to all of them, no, but that citizens can have the opportunity to defend their initiatives in this Parliament and then it will be the political groups that decide. Therefore, these are the fundamental reasons. Some of the things you put forward in relation to what needs to be corrected by the law are shared by us: you need to improve Lanbide's employability, there are other changes you have put forward on other occasions that could be reasonable and that other groups put forward them... But, in general, what we see is that you pose a hardening in access to aid: you increase the years of registration, you increase the obligations, you pose the work to the community, which, in our opinion, makes no sense, because you raise it for this type of aid, but not for others, and you also raise the issue of criminal record, which raises at least very serious constitutional doubts. And they also talk about what it has to do with energy poverty, and here what I am asking you is that what the Spanish Government has to do is change and improve the pension system, increase pensions, increase minimum pensions. That is the most direct, most reasonable way our pensioners can live. On the other hand, they propose to withdraw the aid to those who send some of the money abroad. I mean, if you spend it on alcohol, absolutely nothing happens, but if you send it abroad, which is also difficult to control, you have to take the help away from it. Totally, we do not share the proposed measures. He's an electoralist. You said that we have missed a new opportunity; I believe, Mrs Garrido, that what you came here to raise was an electoral debate, and in that regard you have already taken advantage of your opportunity, but the rest of the groups will vote against it. With regard to cases of corruption, Mrs Garrido, I was asked to list those closest to the Basque Autonomous Community or cases of corruption that are still alive or that have occurred in Euskadi, and I wanted to list those that affect the People's Party, although the list is so long that it would possibly take hours even to quote them all. I have cited cases of political corruption that affect the People's Party because it is the People's Party that has presented this initiative. In conclusion, Mrs Garrido, you have every right to present this initiative, we respect it, there is no greater problem with it. But we have many compelling reasons to vote against this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u29	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Now that the dispute is over, the vote is made whether the legal proposition is considered or not. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given, 74; supporters 10; contraries, 64; white, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u30	So he doesn't consider it. We'll go next to the vote. Let's start with Social Party. Mr. Pastor, your word is yours. Remember, it's a vote description.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u31	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists have opposed the reform proposed by the PP precisely because we believe that we need to improve our social protection system, and what the PP, Mrs Garrido, proposes is not to improve it, it is to continue to put our finger on many things that the party itself has been able to solve and has not wanted to do. We ratify today in what we approved almost two years ago in a monographic session. We believe that the Basque system of income guarantee must be strengthened against those who intend to cut it, which is, by the way, what with macacone and reckless insistence has been raising the PP. We ratify that new situations of difficulty are emerging, not foreseen before the crisis. And we also ratify the need to apply as many mechanisms as possible so that there is not a single public euro that is received by those who are not to receive it. That, by the way, is what the proposal for a law comes to say, but it says it only in the explanatory statement; in the concrete proposals, in the article, there is not a single measure, nor a single measure, to prevent the fraud they denounce. Putting a stop to fraud, even if it is reduced, does not even need to change the law. Other avenues can and must be adopted, such as the collaboration between Lanbide and Ertzaintza, already launched. Or better control of documentation – competence, by the way, of the Ministry of the Interior, which has governed the PP – to avoid forgery of what the mafias are worth. Or that all administrations are left with pruritus in data management and interconnect, that Lanbide knows instantly whether or not a person seeking aid is discharged from Social Security, whether or not he is registered in the municipality, whether or not he or she receives other income. This means that the central Government, the Basque Government, the deputies and the municipalities facilitate this automatic connection. The Socialists have also defended these solutions to end another fraud, the prosecutor, but what the PP brings is something else. He intends to continue deceiving by presenting himself as the defenders of the weak. And he does something else: he adds new exclusions from the perception of GIR to people who have been convicted of certain crimes, by providing for the punishment that judges have imposed on them. By the way, something has been said today by the Constitutional Court in relation to a similar case, saying that it is unconstitutional to aggravate an already imposed sentence. Curiously, however, it does not exclude those who have been convicted of committing extraordinarily serious fraud or other offences (corruption, evasion, tax fraud). That is to say, it excludes those who have committed a crime, but allows those who have been convicted of corruption to be charged by the RGI and to keep good fortunes in Switzerland or Panama. We are in favour of combating fraud: the social one, which represents a small percentage; and the fiscal one and the one of the submerged economy, which gives us about 3.7 billion a year. We are also in favour of fighting against those who use tools that could become legal, but that are actually a fraud, as we have seen with Panama's roles; because those who defraud harm the public system that must serve everyone. And we are also in favour of strengthening social rights and reaching out to those who are not there now. There is a reason for weight added to our rejection, and it is the end of the legislature. It is no accident that we are going to discuss this today, because every movement you have made in this area has followed the electoral calendar on time. On the eve of the municipal elections they started the ILP process; on the eve of an electoral campaign, in October 2015, it was raised to the plenary, and on the eve of an electoral campaign they brought this one that we discussed, when the campaign of the autonomous ones will begin. Interestingly, from October 2015 to May 2016, seven months have passed in which the PP did not consider it opportune to raise this debate; it thought that there was no need to promote initiatives to reform the GIR, apparently. And I end up giving reason to the PP. He is right, we should have a calm debate on our model of social protection. But it was the PP who poisoned that possibility from the beginning. That is why we accept that the Government should carry out a first assessment and analysis of what to discuss. And yes, it is true, the government has once again left it by the time Parliament closes, without time. The management of aid, it is true, has to be more effective, both in granting and withdrawing it and in its insertion function, and Lanbide is the instrument to do so. But the government, supported by the same party as the last legislature, which said that this was going to be settled in four months, did not begin to order it until two years after it was formed, and the result is a management failure, as the head of Lanbide, the vice-counsel, acknowledged. Any criticism of management does not justify, Mrs Garrido, putting forward a false debate, which starts from the assumption of widespread fraud which is falsely attributed to immigrant groups and which results in a proposal which falsely claims to be raised to end fraud without a single measure correcting it. That is why we are defending a system of social protection without fraud, and that is why we are opposed to this proposal fraud.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u32	Thank you, Mr. Pastor. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u33	Thank you, ma'am. Good morning, everyone. EH Collect voted today against this legal proposition which aims to reduce the rent to support incomes. He has done so, and will do so whenever such a proposal is presented. In this proposition of the law it is evident that the system we now have has two major gaps or problems: Fraud, abuse, solicitation. But it is a wonder that in this proposition there is no measure to be made to put an end to these two questions. "But whoever receives it is to increase the time of the census, that is, to pass from three to five years. Those who sided with this proposition of the law were in favor of the law which regulates the law of the revenue at its own time, and at that time they saw this law perfectly proper, especially to put an end to it. We don't know why people in 2008 turn up against each other today. If there's been a fraud in social scholarships, it's about %1 (would be about four million dollars). Money, of course, is important to him, but in his own way: I can't forget that the tax press belongs to about 2,000 million. The terms and the controls that are followed by this scholarship are enormous. And we must also consider that the controls made during the past few years are more and more intense; that is to say, no one can hire the rent to support the revenues. We could talk about fraud (political fraud, tax fraud), we could talk about wiretapping to political opponents using their institutional power, we could talk about thieves, thieves. We could talk about all that. But it seems that those who are in favour of ending certain frauds are not willing or willing to end others. EH Bildu has always stood against all cases of fraud, without exception. On the other hand, we talk about the chronification of people who are benefiting, but the reason for this cronification is not even less in the pretended ill will of these receivers. You have to look at the workers' trade to see the timer's disease. As long as there is no worthy office to be obtained, it is the only way left to maintain incomes in the revenue system or root. It is clear that the reason why immigrants come here is not social service, but a desire to find work. So we have to change the system? Sure. But if it's done, let's make it strong and expand the entire system. Not just to give attention, like you said in your own mind. It seems that the Department of Police Society will identify the aspects that can be improved on this system, and suggest exact improvement measures. Probably they are absorbed in it, but, in fact, the law is about to end, and we have not seen any change here. We continue with the same cuts introduced in the RGI in the last legislature, cuts that left out thousands of collectors because they hardened the accesses by increasing the registration requirement from one to three years. Some cuts were put in place to ensure the good lives of some, while thousands of people stayed out of social security. All this in a country where people are supposed to be the first. Therefore, we have seen no change in the GIR in this legislature, at least changes that serve to extend rights. What we have seen, however, is that, while here it seems that we are thinking about how to modify the system, others and others in Gipuzkoa simply end up with benefits like AGI, a tool that served to ensure social cohesion and avoid inequalities, according to Caritas. Therefore, EH Bildu is certain that if we were all in favour of modifying the GIR to achieve more social cohesion, not to leave people in misery and to achieve a more just society, we would not have to see ourselves in the thesis of talking about this kind of malicious, exclusionary and absolutely interested proposals, which seek only political revenue. Finally, those who favor this legal proposition use as excuse the gaps in the way the profession works. That's what they use to reduce social rights and to establish a petophobia in our society. Therefore, until the feeding of the xnophobic is removed from his mind, EH Collect will be opposed to this initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Too much of a lady, it's your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u35	Thank you, Mr. President. Chief department, congressmans, good morning to all. Eunerative patriot has given a negative vote to socialize introduced by the populars and to remunerate the income on December 23d December 18/2008 for second change of law-proposation. I shall try to explain the reasons briefly, because we have spoken more than once about this subject, and our position has not changed since we last discussed it. We say that we are willing to improve the law which is in force, a thousand times, and we maintain it. But we clearly see that it is a reflection which ought to be made out of election time, and that the bill of law was introduced on the 6th of May, after the census was summoned to general elections, and in the autumn we shall have elections to the Basque Parliament. So the moment is not the right thing to do. In the legislature the 18/2008 law of December 23, to remunerate and remunerate the revenues, was agreed upon. We believe that the proposal to change the law would require an extensive consent, and the time of election and the end of law are not at all suitable for such a change. And besides, to ensure the income of incomes and management, the New Year's Department of Police and Society has started a technical committee, as other representatives have said. So, in our opinion, the results of this report are absolutely necessary before we begin with the change of law. We consider the report as an important and essential starting point. Our group is willing to examine in a calm manner all those aspects that can be improved and that do not imply cuts, because, although you in your speech have said that you did not imply cuts your law proposal, it is not true, because what they do is harden the access requirements. Therefore, this group is willing to examine – and, I insist, calmly – all those aspects that can be improved in the processing and management of the GIR, as well as in the articles of Law 18/2008. But we are equally clear that this analysis must be done outside electoral periods, outside the media, without seeking party protagonists, outside demagogicism, leaving aside all demagogicism and populism. We have to work all the groups together to improve, to give the best possible response to people who are going through the worst. We must sit down and try as much consensus as possible, because an amendment to this important law is well worth the effort to be adopted by a large majority, and, if possible, by unanimity. Therefore, after the study of the technical team created at the request of the Department of Employment and Social Policy, which can serve as a starting point for parliamentary groups, our group undertakes, with a view to the next parliamentary term, to address the aspects to be improved by Law 18/2008, reiterating that such work must be done in a calm manner, outside the media centres, with the will to achieve the broadest possible consensus on the part of all. Therefore, ready to reach this subject, to form a number of works, to improve the law, to improve and cultivate the necessary changes, and its consequences. A commitment to the next legislation and a job for all of us. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Arreg. Five point in theme list: "Motion, Daniel Maezz Perez Perez EH gathered together, about the regulations made by the Spanish State to regulate power-auto consumption. Discipline and final resolution. Mr. Mazezu, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u37	Thank you, Mr. President. And good day to all the congressmen. This is probably the last discussion around energy during this time of legislation to the Chamber. We must say, first of all, that we are proud that we have brought the discussion of energy here, because we have tried to get it out of the deserts, from the places it was, and have brought it so many times to this Chamber. It has not only been the effort of collecting the Basque People, of course, to form a necessary discussion, but we've brought it here several times, and at least we've managed to find the theme of energy in this legislature too. And not only here, it is true, has not only been in this Chamber subject of energy to dispute. We believe that some of the agents have also made a special attempt to get the energy theme out of the streets, the discussion of which I have just mentioned, and which had hitherto been decided to leave the deserts. We must mention the platform of our energy there, for instance, the platform for a New Middle-Engage, or the Araba Garoña Gabe, and especially the effort of Fracking Not platform to put out the theme of energy. Not only to protest in a particular project, or to express their indignation, but to proclaim a new negligical example, to proclaim this most urgent transition. A new pattern, which ought to be retractable in energy, which ought to encourage divided and divided productions, and to proclaim that new pattern which must be placed under the public criteria, and not under the economic criteria of certain corporations. After all, as we have said so often, when this dispute is made, energy is a fundamental resource to every nation, so that the main criteria must be placed under the general interests, and not at present, unfortunately, under the interests of a few companies. In the course of today we bring back the discussion about the electricity's self-consumption, and we think this discussion is a very good example to show what the state of government has been in the energy in the case of this law: that this transition from fossil fuels to retractable energy is necessary, and that government, in the contrary direction, the claims of those in the streets, the proclamations which are made in society, and the proclamations which are frequently made in this chamber. Government has constantly followed its policy, and has not attended to the disputes of society. The government, the Eucatic Party, continues to increase our dependence on fossil fuels, still retains a model based on fossil fuels. And the consumption is to see an example of what was the real face of a Eukong in energy, and it could be another fracing a. Besides, not only because they were made here, and because the Government went in the opposite direction, but also because of the argument or excuse which he used then to argue with them, because they were always permitted in Madrid, because there were some laws and there were here to be fulfilled, and he wanted to justify his real attitude. We must remember that, uh, our plan of the World's Disposition is true, that it was already assumed that it was a power reform and reform of a self-consumption decree, but it must also be remembered that, in Madrid, the Eugal Party voted for this reform, the reorganized reform, against the reconnaisssance of self-inflict energy, it voted for the reform in Madrid. And in order to give another example of energy, a law has been admitted in this law about the hydrocarbic sector of Madrid, which has some consequences here, but it must also be remembered that the role of the Jaltal Party, in spite of it, has been voted for the law of Madrid. These laws, therefore, have consequences here, and the other because, in spite of the conduct of the Jestal Party, he has voted for them in Madrid. It is very hard to see here when we admit a law (for example, the law which we admitted about the fracing), that Madrid, the State, is a rebel, and that it is a law by which he uses it, a law approved of by the Jeltmatic Party at Madrid. It is very hard, not only as a person who proclaims an alternative energy model, but as a patriot it is very hard. Horregatik ekarri nahi dut hona gogora bere garaian Benito Juárezek esandako esaldi bat: "Cursed are those who defend the people with their words and betray them with their deeds." Cursed are those who claim to be against the sun tax, as the Basque Nationalist Party says, but who then report and pass laws that set a sun tax, that set a tax on electric self-consumption, which is what you have done. That's the source of this motion, a report made by the energy Basque Organization, and we made an interpelation around this report to Chief of Tapia. And I think it's necessary to remember what this report said about the regulations the state wanted to regulate self-consumption in its own time. And he would say, the other: "El Consumidor contectado a la red y acco al selfconsumo se beneficia del reglido que le el system." Por lo tant, es raoneble que pague por ese secaldo. (... ) Sin embargo, se puede considerar que estos pejes están concebidos de una lógica rationible." We find phrases like this in this report, and this is our question to the members of the Eupric Party, and to the member of the tribe who is to be joined to this tribe: Are you on the side of this? Do you re-read this report by the Esquial Organization of energy (quienes hacen selfconsumo se benefilica del rsdaldo que les e system; That's our question. And that's why we introduced this motion. This report we took from Mrs. Tapia in this quizze, and she tried to explain that the Eubal Party Jeltdo is against the impoest al sole, but that it protects the tax that is to be paid by people who want self-consumption. And we don't understand because they're both going together. For this is the tribute of the sun: to the person who has a badge in his house, to the person who commits the power's self consumption, to put an overture. Not only when his badge does not produce electricity for the use of the net, but we all have to do this for the sake of using a network, and we can think it normal, but because at the moment when he's producing his electricity plate, there's a tax to be paid for, because an overdose has to be paid. That's the sun's tax. Is that what you're on? Now we don't know. From that point on, we think that what really appeared in this report is your real face, that you are on the side of setting up that sun's tribute. After all, that's what your favorite company wants, because that's what the Iberdrol wants. For multinational companies like the Iberdrol, for corporations that operate in the electric firm, because self-consumption is a threat, not for the amount of business that they can get rid of in the business itself (not so much), but because it's possible to show another model, a separate model, much more fair and much cheaper, and besides that it's done with reactive energy. So the companies like the Iberdroclus don't want to encourage self-consumption, because it's showing that it's rotting its own negligical model, that fabulous model that rests on fossil fuels, and also because there are other alternatives. And we think that you are defending the interests of the Iberdron, and that is why you make reports of this kind, and that, after all, you defend them for such a promotion as to produce electricity with a solar splash. That's why, during this legislation, we've been presented to Mrs. Tapia as an interpelation, and that's why today we bring a motive which we've agreed with the Socialist Party, and which, in short, demands two things which are very logical for us. On the one hand, as far as I'm concerned, I'd like to complete the whole thing before the bill is over, especially on the points in the Eucommy. In other words, it was received in these separate proposals, such as the decree which regulates the autosumption of the law, to bring a report to this Chamber within six months of time, to know what consequences it can contain in its self-consumption. Those six months have passed, even eight months, and no report is available. And Mrs. Tapia told me, in interpelation, that these conclusions would be considered in my own native strategy, within the mythical strategy that now reappears, and that this strategy would be in June in this parliament and that we should be able to discuss it. Well, it's June 30th, that strategy hasn't been brought here, the next month is in progress, and, apparently, we're going to spend a whole legal time without discussing this Chamber of Government strategy. In other words, it was also established in these different propositions, as accepted, to increase or increase the subsidies which the Eucal institutions of energy has nowadays established autosumption or solar splashes. Why? Because of the Decree, the overdose would come up. That's not today. On the one hand, therefore, we demand that the proposition which has hitherto been accepted should be fulfilled as a whole. And secondly, we demand something definite: That's why you're in the habit of making all the self-consumption steps in order to regulate them here (Araban, Biscaia, and Gipuzian) and to make a special law to prevent the construction of the state. We are conscious that there is no time to make a law before the end of this law, but at least to make the necessary first steps in order to allow it to be admitted in the following law. Therefore, these are the propositions of our motion, and let us hope that we have no difficulty in accepting our motion by the rest of our groups.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u38	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u39	Thank you, President. And good morning to you all. As far as energy is concerned, we have finished this legislature almost as we began: recognizing the need for a debate and commitment on energy policy, and facts on the part of the Basque Government, quite few. This is the third initiative around self-consumption, the last one we had a few months ago, in October 2015. This is also one of the items that combine wills at the time of the vote, but whose implementation, as on other occasions, is far from being carried out. We started from two debates: one in 2013 and the last in October 2015. The commitments required were both the Government of Spain and the Basque Government. The People's Party in Madrid made a real decree that only they defended, and here, in Euskadi, the commitment against that real decree died with the vote, because the PNV votes, but does not comply. Point 4 of that transaction stated in text: "In the event that the actual decree mentioned comes into force, the Basque Government will analyse concrete proposals to promote the self-consumption of electricity". Those who vote are supposed to believe it, because obviously we did not expect or expect anything from those who disagree, and on this occasion we will recognise that the People's Party is coherent. The Basque Socialists advocate achieving an efficient and sustainable energy system that lays the groundwork for a renewable energy-based electricity sector in 2050 and a reduction in CO emissions 2 compatible with the Paris commitments. Later, in October 2015, in that last debate, we decided to increase the levels of demand. In addition to showing our rejection of the real decree, a position that we maintain today, the Socialist Parliamentary Group maintains its position of reform of that decree and defends the need for a stable regulatory framework for electric self-consumption and small-scale generation in the net balance mode, because the real decree implies that, in addition to paying the tolls to the system, as Mr Maeztu said, like any other consumer, those who self-consumer pay, in addition, an extra sun tax for the same right to use the net as the rest of the consumers (to power and to self-consumed energy). All this, the day we know through the media that, already definitively, after the general elections will raise the bill of light retroactively. They'll pay the same and win the usual. On the other hand, we demanded the submission of a status report, at least one report. In this House, it is no longer surprising to anyone that we are faced with a further breach by the Government. The nationalist spokesman in his speech will probably explain the reason for the non-report. In addition, we asked the EVE for an amendment of aid, which has not had the expected route either. But, knowing the energy policy led by Mrs Tapia, we also did not expect compliance, although we would then understand that we would vote against it. But the PNV, as far as energy is concerned, always tells us about the commitment to be part of the debate on the energy policy of the future. And that is why a paper was created in this House. I think it's the forum where the PNV could have shown that their commitments go beyond the votes, that is, that they don't die the day they press the "In favor" button. And what about the paper, a forum chaired by the Basque Nationalist Party, in which all political parties raised the possibility that collectives working in the sector would appear and then be able to agree among all future energy policies for Euskadi? That speech, chaired by the PNV, but not only chaired, I would dare to say that at this point already in the legislature, when it is probably the last plenary we will talk about this, it has been blocked and paralyzed by the Basque Nationalist Party. This government, or the party that supports it, was never interested in this debate in serious terms. For the Socialist Group, it is another missed opportunity to be able to agree on the future of energy policy, of which it fills electoral programmes, but that at the time of truth there is nothing. There is still a blockade by this group (the Basque Nationalists) in the House and by the Basque Government, led by Mrs Tapia. As the rest of the autonomous communities increase in regulations, in raising awareness of policy change and in concrete commitments, Euskadi looks elsewhere. It gives us great headlines in forums where future policies are presented propagandistically, which they never carry out; at the time of truth, nothing. We've missed a chance. That paper was a pioneering paper, in which we could have reached a great pact by all political forces to agree on what was best for this country, and you have blocked it. And what shows is that, once again, they voted for the creation of this paper to avoid external pressures; the political pressures on the part of the parliamentary groups that we understood to be an issue that we needed to deepen and we needed to agree on, and the external pressures of the collectives working on this issue that are increasingly taking the lead on the street. This also happened with the topic of energy poverty or the ILP of fracking : votes around one thing and zero executions. The debate on energy policy, as I say, should be a fundamental pillar for any government. A policy in which there was consistency between what is defended in the rostrum, is written in the electoral programmes, is voted on, and should then have a binding commitment when it comes to implementing it. And it is not because this House says so; it is a matter of respect for the House. And I believe that the Basque Nationalist Party should make some self-criticism when, full after full, all the groups in this House, with the exception of the PNV, bring non-compliance on the part of this government in carrying out parliamentary mandates. The regulation of self-consumption of electrical energy is a demand that goes beyond the discourses that endure it all. Concrete commitments and policies are needed. All this I am saying has been mentioned in the last parliamentary agreement, to which we can also add the previous one, that of 2013. Today we add one more point, because we do not cease our efforts to ensure that this is taken into consideration by the PNV. In addition, today we call for a law to be drawn up. We know that the PNV, in order to vote against, is going to excuse us from the powers. It's that mantra they use to stand against something they know they can dig deeper into, to say, "We here can't do anything because this is Madrid's competition." You know that the Autonomous Community of Murcia has already done something about this issue. Nothing more and nothing less than Murcia, which is governed by the People's Party, and has already done something about what has to do with this law. And for you, surely, the cause to say that you do not vote the law will be a competitive issue: "This is for Madrid, we do what we can". And we are facing the same situation as four years ago. Many debates, many hours – I would dare to define – lost by those we have committed ourselves to making that presentation work. We have heard collectives and people involved in the energy issue who have been brought to this House by all the parliamentary groups, with the commitment of everyone that we would be able to reach a consensus opinion at least at the minimum. And in the end, this legislature ends up throwing all those minutes into the trash, because this paper is not going anywhere. And I have a lot of impact on the paper, because you voted in favour of creating it; once again you voted in favour of creating something and then doing nothing. Then this Member of Parliament and my group will be willing to listen to the explanations that you are going to give us: why there is no report, why the EVE has not changed the aid, why they do not want a law and why they do not want to do anything that goes beyond saying "we will continue with the policies", those that are never done. And we will also wait to see if you give birth to all this that you have not done and we do not have to wait for Mrs Tapia to give us a headline in a newspaper. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u40	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u41	Thank you, Mr. President. Congressmen, good noon to all. The correction of our whole body is as follows: "The U.S.A. wants to keep on developing like 200/2013, about self-consumption of pure power. " And as the European Parliament brings out the colors of Spain for hindering self-consumption, Solar Impulse 2, the plane powered exclusively by solar energy, crossed the Atlantic Ocean from New York last week and landed in Seville, at a further stage on its return to the world. As advanced societies walk in a larger electrification of our society and its great challenge is transportation (such as Sweden's example, with a pilot experience, creating an electric highway for trucks that will be in operation for the next two years), in Spain it goes in the opposite direction, punishing our industries with abusive electricity tariffs, and it invents an extra rate that applies only to self-consumption electricity, further deteriorating the investment climate in renewables in Spain. Our bet, as the Basque Nationalist Party, is to have a law of self-consumption yes, with a net balance not, but state, where the facilities are within the electrical system and not outside, where we can bring and receive energy and be remunerated for it. Currently, even outside the Government in office, the Vice-President of the National Commission on Markets and Competition and the electricity sector are participating in a working and analytical group, in which for the first time the whole energy sector (traditional, renewable electricity, cogeneration, oil companies, gas companies), all employers and large and controversial energy consumers (such as Alcoa, Acerinox, ArcelorMittal) are present to analyse the current situation of the electricity system and to provide a common basis for new electricity regulation to the new Government of Spain. This is the goal in the short and medium term: to achieve among all actors, including political groups, to change the electricity regulation at state level, which is where competition resides, as an open-heart operation, and not to pretend to place a stretch and waste time asking the Basque Government to legislate where it is not competent. In mid-July 2015 already, Gure Energia, the Basque node of the Platform for a New Energy Model, already proposed a text to us to proceed to make this declaration before the imminent adoption of the Royal Decree. Faithful to this commitment to this Platform for a New Energy Model, our transactional amendment was the same that transferred the same platform to us. I believe that EH Bildu and the Socialist Group should take an example of this platform, which in its text called on the Spanish Government, which is responsible for electricity regulation, and not the Basque Government, to create this self-consumption law. What do the Batian legislators say? Recently, the Constitutional Court has given them the reason in article 20 bis, which it says is that they physically isolate and leave exempt from the payment of tolls from being inside the electrical system to these self-consumption facilities. Isolate them, leave them out, like it's an additional element. But that is not the future of our society. And already say the Murtian legislators that we must repeal the real decree of self-consumption and eliminate the so-called sun tax, include the shared self-consumption, allow the deferred net balance, recover what is poured into the bill within a maximum of 12 months, simplify administrative procedures and establish legal certainty; that is, as all groups and all companies and associations that are involved in the whole issue of the electricity sector are doing right now. Our electrical regulation is bad, our industries are suffering for it. We have to go that way. The self-consumption and, increasingly, the electrification of our society goes that way. And that is where we would all have to be together, because if from here we pretend that it is the Basque Government that establishes this law, that is like putting a tirite. We would have to follow Murcia's example and place these installations that would be outside the electrical system. That's not the future, that's not the process. And by giving some time to all the questions I have been asked, I think it is good that we maintain this energy model. But we are leading the entire society as a whole. So it is very good that Mr Maeztu and Mr Bildu claim this new energy model, that is very good, but that too must be demonstrated by the facts. And, I've told you many times, you set a very partial picture. It teaches us the positive side of their attitude, which is very good (coming here, using skis, doing what you want...), but we are in that we use fossil fuels all, including Bildu members. All your cars... I see very few electric cars. I mean, don't talk to me about facts. The facts are that we have a Basque society with two million inhabitants and we have to take them all, try it with maximum social cohesion. And we're all in favor of your model, we're all in that line, but let's be rigorous and be serious. I think it is very good that I am talking about the 2013 EVE report, but I also know that there is another report in 2015, which says "withdrawn from the proposal of the royal decree". What happens is that you only get the first words of that of 2013, which also says something very simple. I, as a customer who wants to put a self-consumption facility at home, what I want for the future is that, in the same way that in case I need energy I can receive it from the power grid – and I will pay it, and I will pay a canon – too, when I overpower myself, I can sell it to the grid. And if by using the electric highway I have to pay a canon, I will pay it, as payment for the highways, but what I want is for that energy to be retributed to me as well. We will either negotiate or legislate whether with a net balance or with anything else. But what I want, as a society, for Basque citizens is that they can also sell this energy. It's just that if you don't... It's just that the future doesn't go that way. Mrs Red was also talking about blocking and paralysing the energy presentation. Be also more rigorous: electrical energy presentation. And the biggest problem we have in the electric energy presentation since October 2015 is that we have a functioning government, and the biggest problem that electric energy has now is regulation. Ask the European Parliament, which is taking its colours out now for self-consumption; ask the president of renewables, who is also writing articles recently, which is now the time, which seems that all groups are in favour of changing this law. Be sensible and be rigorous. Let us even do as the National Commission on Markets and Competition is doing, which is now talking to the whole sector to try to lay the groundwork and offer the new Government new consensus on everything that needs to be changed in that legislation. When we get those grounds for that new regulation, I'll be happy to send them and they'll come and explain it to us. But electrical regulation is more than 50% of an electrical energy presentation, and if you don't want to recognize it, don't recognize it. And it's no excuse for competition, it's reality. And they are told by the Batian legislators, who for their self-consumption facilities have had to say that they are outside the electrical system, so that they can allow and deliver the light and deliver what they can deliver (if they are connected with a technical system, disconnect). Deliver the light, but do not be recompensed. That's not what I want for Basque citizens! What I want is an integrated system. I want to be able to give energy, I want to be able to receive energy. And nothing happens to me because I have to pay for receiving or giving energy and using those channels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. The turn of the group that hasn't run any corrections. Myst. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u43	Thank you, President. Briefly, in relation to the debate before us today in the transactional signed by EH Bildu and the Socialist Group. In the first of the points of the transaction, it is proposed that the Basque Government be urged to comply fully with proposals Nos. 200/2013 and 99/2015 concerning electric self-consumption with net balance, before the end of the legislature. We already stand in relation to this debate. We voted in favour of the first initiative of 2013 and in relation to the second initiative, about eight months ago, we abstained. We also understand that this second transaction, which was approved on that occasion, has not yet been carried out by the Government. In that transaction, the Government was asked to submit a report analysing the impact of the above-mentioned legislation on the deployment of self-consumption in Euskadi, the possibilities of being able to develop within our area of competence a regulatory framework of its own to promote the implementation of self-consumption with net balance and distributed electricity production. In addition, another set of requests and a number of claims were raised that have not yet been met. We therefore believe that the most reasonable thing is to wait for the government to respond and also deliver that report which this Parliament demanded through that transaction. On the other hand, what we are asking is to urge the Government to put in place the necessary procedures to develop a law regulating self-consumption with a net balance in the Basque Autonomous Community, in order to favour it and avoid additional costs of access to the network. We have to say, as we have said on other occasions, since this debate has been raised on several occasions, that we are against the Royal Decree 900/2015 of the Government of Spain, that we are in favour of net self-consumption and that we are against the sun tax, but we cannot vote for things that in principle seem impossible. We understand that this is the responsibility of the Government of Spain. And, therefore, while we can share the spirit of some of the arguments put forward by the proposing groups, we will finally abstain from this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u44	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Euscal Group Popula representative. Miss Lopez de Ocarariz, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u45	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. Briefly, because this is a very manic subject and on which in the end everyone continues in their concept of self-consumption. I believe that Mr Maeztu tells us that this is a new energy debate. No, Mr Maeztu, this is not an energy debate. We talk about energy, but there is no energy debate, because you have never explained your energy model. Never, he's not on the table his model. Therefore, we are not discussing energy models, but we are talking about energy. And mainly the initiatives you bring here are to say no to what is done. I haven't seen any positive initiatives. The motion put forward by Mr Maeztu calls on the Basque Government to implement an initiative adopted in this House three years ago, an initiative which mainly says that a draft decree was withdrawn. Finally, we now follow in the same: against the decree that is already in place. I want to remind you that about two months ago – I don't remember the date – we were called to a self-consumption energy forum by the self-consumption system installers. And what was concluded there is that the decree does not satisfy companies, but that it is better for them to have a decree than not to have it. You should know that in the debate that took place on the drafts of the decree – it took a long time to reach a text – it was impossible to reach an agreement between the various agents, because it is true that the interests are very opposed, and a decree was reached. That he's not the best? Of course not, we share that too. What's to be modified? Indeed. And today there is more consensus to make a much more positive decree for the sector than it had been a year and a half or two years ago. Just like some have a lot to say about why we didn't get a better decree, right? Everyone here has their share of responsibility. So, what is going to change that decree? Yes, of course. What's going to be more positive for self-consumption? Yeah. But from there to everything that is being put on the table seems pretty demagogic to me on your part. And besides, you talk about a net balance that I don't know what it is, because there are different net balance schemes. You know that Denmark, which was one of the countries where self-consumption first began to be regulated (it started in 2001), took 10 years to regulate self-consumption at home, 10 years. I can't imagine you putting up with 10 years of a government that doesn't manage to regulate; it would be thousands of initiatives. Denmark took 10. And at two years he changed the rules, because the net self-consumption balance was generating him millions of dollars a year to maintain the network system, about 300 million euros a year. And now he's modifying that system. I believe that Denmark's experience is an experience that should serve us and that shows that the regulation of self-consumption with a net balance suggests the need to establish a regulation that favours self-consumption, but provided that the tax collection of the system is taken care of and does not result in a reduction of the system. We have to keep the system if you want to be hooked up to the network, and that system has a cost. And that cost we have to pay among all those who use it, that of self-consumption and the normal consumer. Therefore, Mr Maeztu, we are going to vote no. I think you do quite a bit of demagogy on this subject. You know how it is also changing in Italy, also in Germany, and I believe that what we have to do is the best decree and the best regulation. You refer to what the Basque Government has not done. He has not done many things, indeed, because he has been a flat government. But you have only proposed debates against, you have not proposed positive initiatives. He has not spoken, he has not been interested in talking, about energy efficiency, because the best, the cleaner energy, is the one that is not consumed. And there he has responded to initiatives that we have presented others: to investigate how to generate systems for saving renewable energy, for batteries, etc. I think there is an important field of work in that regard. But the Basque Government is responding to what the legislature has been like: doing nothing to keep nobody from being disturbed. Among others, you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz. Passing on the answering shift, Mr. Mazzu.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u47	Yeah. Quite briefly, because I think that the attitudes in this matter are well fixed. It is not the first time that we discuss this subject, but we believe that the end is rather meaningful for the disputes we have had in this energy department. I think that this initiative, this debate, is a good one, to see what the position of the Basque Government and the Basque Nationalist Party has been in this legislature on the subject of energy, Mr Carro. On the one hand, they have been reminded, we had – in fact we continue to have it – an open presentation to reflect on the energy model, on the electric energy model. That's what that paper was called. By the way, proposed by Euskal Herria Bildu. We have also made some positive proposals. Our intention was to generate a debate, which did not exist, on the energy model and to be able to draw conclusions. But that speech today has not ended. Among other things, because the president of that paper has not convened it for a long time, and it seems that he did not intend to have any conclusions on that paper. Because very significant things have been heard in it, especially about the already imperative need to make a transition from fossil energy to renewable energy, but it seems that there was not much interest in those conclusions being reached in this plenary. We are in a legislature where the Basque Government has decided to renew the energy strategy and has decided to do so without bringing it to this House, without a political debate. We are no longer talking about a social debate on an issue that is fundamental to any society, such as energy, and in this case electricity; it has not brought it to this House. It has decided to renew, revise the energy strategy, it will pass the legislature and it has decided not to bring it to this House. It is very significant to see these two issues, to see what has been your party's position on this issue. Let there be no debate. Important decisions are made in offices and are made with companies, and they are not taken into political debate or social debate. That is his position on the subject of energy in this country. And we do not all agree that a transition is necessary, do not tell me that, because this government is not laying the groundwork for an energy transition, let alone. We continue to bet on a fossil fuel model and the Basque Government continues to bet on that model. I will give you a fact: only the 23.2 million euros spent in this legislature by the Basque Government on buying shares in Bizkaia Gas Bay (fossil fuel, gas) are much more than anything that has invested in renewable energy in this legislature. Only the purchase of shares at a given time and by a specific gas company; I will not talk to you anymore about what we are spending on fracking permits or other ways of extracting conventional gas. Therefore, do not tell me that you agree on an energy transition, because public money and public policies do not go towards an energy transition. Of course we need fossil fuels, of course, to make that transition. We cannot go from today to tomorrow from dependence on fossil fuels to a 100 per cent renewable energy model, but we can do as Sweden, which you have brought the example up: to bet for the year 2040 on a 100 per cent renewable model. Sweden has done it, it has decided. What do you mean? That from now on all public money and all public policies will be directed towards renewable energies. And not, as with you, to gas, because it has been this government's bet, because the Basque Nationalist Party in its day bet on having five combined cycles in the Basque Autonomous Community; today they are working at 15% of their capacity, but we have to feed them because it is a business and we have to keep it alive. To say now that it was a mistake to bet on the combined gas cycles and that there is a superproduction of combined gas cycles would be to acknowledge that you were wrong, and you cannot do it. Finally, I would like to say that it is very difficult to hear here, seeing what the position of the Spanish State is not only in this area, but also in other areas, the re-centralising position of the Spanish State, which is not asked of the Basque Government to legislate in what is not within its competence. It is very hard to hear it here, because, according to the Spanish State, it is not the competence of this Autonomous Community to make scholarships of our educational system, it is not the competence of the Basque Autonomous Community to make OPE in Ertzaintza, it is not the competence, it seems to be, to make a law of victims of police violence (it is the last threat of the Spanish State, to appeal if a law of victims of police violence comes out here). What do you mean we don't ask them to legislate in what's not competition? What's not our competition? Who says so? The Constitutional Court? The Spanish State? We will have to start thinking that we will have to have legal mechanisms to deal not only with the re-centralisation of the Spanish State, but also with the cuts and misery that it wants to propose for this people. We will have to start equipping ourselves with mechanisms and dealing with the Spanish State, its resources. So don't tell us not to ask you to legislate. Of course we're going to ask you, this legislature...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u48	Go and finish it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u49	... and the next legislature, if it touches, too, that we have to legislate in this country to deal with what comes to us from the Spanish state!
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Mazzu. Socialists. Miss Rojo, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u51	Thank you, President. Mr. Carro, it's just that yours doesn't stop surprising us. He has given us a master class on what self-consumption is (I believe that at this point in the film we all know the theory about self-consumption, what we defend and defend one another), but I wanted to ask him to see if you could answer me something of everything they do not fulfill. And I'm going to buy you the biggest one. You say you don't want to legislate because it's a competition issue. I don't agree, but I'll buy it for you. So, I say to you: the amendment that you approved and that you even proposed as a proposal talked about making that report, which you have not done, and it clearly says "our area of competence", it talks about the report of the Basque Energy Agency, which, as far as I know, is the Basque Energy Agency, and it talked about encouraging the work of the paper. Three things this country and this House can do. Nothing. It's just that you guys don't do anything. I will admit that it seems to me much more consistent that they are voting today against what they are doing throughout the whole legislature, which is voting yes to stay right in front of whom. You guys want to be okay so you don't have to do anything. The competition issue, for you, is an excuse when it suits you. Because you, as Mr Maeztu has just said, when you are interested you are able to look for the tool within our competence to solve problems that Euskadi also has. And fracking, that law that you did not object to through the vote (another thing is what you then do in offices): through the competence of water and the environment, we were able to seek the solution not to make a generic ban that leads us to the Constitutional Court. It was also the responsibility of the Government of Spain, and it seems to you, if I keep the vote you gave, you understand that within our competence we can look for the tool to carry out something. Mr Carro, you do not want to do anything, and in that I give the reason to Mrs López de Ocariz, you do not want to do anything. They want to spend in debates with great headlines, but, if you scratch, there's nothing at all. You do not have a clear energy policy. And I brought back the subject of the paper because I think that is where the different parliamentary groups could take our position and from there try, leaving all hairs in the catera, to agree a new policy of energy transition, which is what is required and what is needed in Euskadi, taking into account that we have an energy dependency of 95%. And that's what you don't do. And you tell me, to justify the subject of the paper you preside over, that it is the fault that there was a government in office and that nothing could be done. Anyway, the blame is once again from Spain. That Spain in which you then support laws such as the amendment of the Hydrocarbons Act when it suits you, and where you want to be the key to government, that Spain in which you don't want to paint anything. The presentation has not been held since December 22, 2015, it has been six months. You know that we met to agree on how we could conduct the pending appearances, committing ourselves to be flexible if any had to be removed, in order to be able to agree on the opinion. And you, believing – forgive me, President – that we are fools, have allowed time and time to pass and have not even summoned us to tell us: "It seems that it will not give time. Do you think we should give an opinion on what's in it?". The PNV did not want an opinion of any kind, because it knew that the political agreements in this House would probably lead it to swallow with an opinion in which they do not believe. Because what you want is for nothing to change, because you do things here to take to Madrid and do the opposite. And this is a haircut. And the issue of energy policy is going to determine the country's economic policy, and you know it; and you are talking all day about renewable energy, but at the time of truth, zero. We are the autonomous community that the most companies have to develop renewable energy, that we export and export, but that we are unable to make that renewable energy available to our citizens and our companies. And that's what it can't be. And the competition issue is one more excuse, and a responsible government has to go ahead with politics, not behind citizen demands. And you were talking about advanced societies, those societies that, when they are right, compare Euskadi with Sweden, with Finland, but in this we are staying behind and behind. And the problem is that energy must be given a solution, and it must be given a solution now, because energy dependence, far from going down, will be able to go further because reports say that energy consumption by citizens and businesses is only increasing. And this government has spent four years doing nothing. Yes, Mr Urkullu told us in a forum that we are in the top ten of renewable energies. I would like to know what you mean, because neither renewable nor non-renewable, nor anything. You haven't done anything. And they wanted to have us entertained, believing you didn't realize it. And this is also self-government, that self-government that they so much like to talk about. Get to work and say what you want to do. And now I would like – I conclude, President – in this last round to explain to me, in what is within our competence (the report, the paper, the Basque Energy Agency), why there is zero in the management of the PNV. Because that's what you deserve: a zero.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u52	Thank you, Miss Rojo. Eubertarians. Mr. Carroll, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u53	Thank you, Mr. President. You can already forgive Mr Maeztu and Mrs Red: I have been asked so many questions that I probably cannot answer them all. It's not my interest. But I thank you for the great passion and the amount of your questions. I thank Mr Maeztu for the ability of the PNV to manage and influence the Government of Spain, which with six congressmen of 350 we now have will be able to have so much influence. Then the two of you talk to me about the energy presentation and then this would go for both of you: electrical energy. And I would like to return this question to you: do you believe that regulation, regulation, more when we are seeing all the problems of renewable energy... is important in the presentation? I think a normal citizen knows that. And if a government has been in operation since October 2015, what cannot be claimed is the Basque Nationalist Group, which may have five or six congressmen of 350, to hold it responsible for not having a government in Spain, for not having an electrical regulation, so that the president of the paper, in this case I, can bring the representative of the State to explain to us what this regulation is like. I think common sense is very difficult to interpret in some cases. He's telling me about the fossil fuel model. I am grateful that Mr Maeztu is also talking about the need for such a transition, but it is that the Basque country, the Basque Government, is doing the same as you, Mr Maeztu, and it is that in order to establish a journey we need 90% of fossil fuel energy and 10% that we can use clean energy. But that is the reality of the moment and of today's society. And you have it in your examples, every time you want to make us here some pantomime or any other story. In the end its result is 54 kilometers driving a bus or a car with fossil fuels and 4.5 kilometers using clean energies. And that is the reality of our society! And thank God we have gas, and thank God we managed to do the prospecting in Gaviota and now we have a big reservoir so we can put gas in there. Why? Because our major cities are feeding on natural gas. Then it's a wonder. And thank God that in the 1980s the Basque Nationalist Party invested in industry and invested in gas. Don't want me to be mixing non-conventional gas now, we're talking about natural gas. We'll talk about fracking. Today, as we can talk about everything, I have no problem talking about everything, but set another initiative, or generate any other scheme. He's talking to me about competitions. What I'm talking about is that they're rigorous. The Basque Government, and the Basque Nationalist Party, of course, is resorting, no matter how much the state is telling it, because there is a bilateral issue: with the issue of Ertzaintza, of educational places... Of course we're belligerent! And we'll still be there! What I'm telling you is that they're rigorous. Let them not be demagogues on this issue, a law that we know is of the whole issue of regulation of the electricity sector, and tell me that they are doing it in Murcia, when what they have done in their renewable law has been making an exception to be able to take out those self-consumption facilities and say that they are not within the system ("Don't count them to me within the system, Mr. State, and so I can leave them out"). No, let's not put on shrapnel when we're doing an open-heart operation, which is the whole issue of electrical regulation; don't put on shrapnel. And that's what I'm talking about, it's state jurisdiction. We are faced with an open-heart operation, with the whole issue of electrical regulation, and you put what you put on are tirites. Why? Because they're doing great. You've made this legislature a wonderful campaign, you're a great couple, but that doesn't have to say anything else. They're still with their demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u54	Thank you, Mr. Carroll. Mist? Especal Team Representative, Mrs. López de Ocariz? He mustn't speak. Now that the discussion is over, we'll vote for EH Collect and the Middle Amendment signed by the Basque Socialists. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters of 36; the opposites, 37; the whites, 0; abstaining, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u55	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full rights of the US patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters, 27; the contrary, 46; white; 0; abstainments.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u56	So he didn't accept it. Number of points in theme list: "Mutation, introduced by Gorka Maniero Labayen Mistto-UPyD members of the Spanish courts of law, the necessary depoliticalization of the Spanish Justice. Discipline and final resolution. The congressman who made the proposal. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u57	Thank you, President. One of the most serious problems facing Spain is the politicization of justice. Justice in Spain is politicized. The General Council of the Judiciary, the Office of the Prosecutor, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court are politicized. It is therefore urgent to depoliticize, decolonize and professionalize it. That is, to force the main political parties to take their hands off the judicial bodies, so that they cease to condition justice in Spain, which is what they have been doing over the last decades. The Basque Nationalist Party has participated in the division of justice and, therefore, in its politicization, in the same way as the People's Party and the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party. It is urgent to carry out such reform, like many others. The main institutions of the State are taken over by the political parties, following a process of privatization of all these institutions, which has ended up causing democracy in Spain to be of low quality. Political parties have taken over the General Council of the Judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Office of the Prosecutor and the Constitutional Court, but also the regulatory bodies: the Bank of Spain, the National Securities Market Commission, the Nuclear Security Council, the courts of accounts or public radio and television. This politicization of everything, this pretension of political parties to control everything in order to defend from within these institutions their own partisan interests pollutes everything and makes many things work wrong. In fact, the concept of democratic regeneration is based precisely on depoliticizing all these institutions and making the institutions in Spain work properly, as they do in other countries in our environment. Where things work best there is better justice, there is better well-being and there is, of course, much less political corruption. All this must be reformed in order to regenerate politics in Spain and, therefore, in Euskadi, since this state of affairs also affects the Basque citizens. That is why the presentation of that inquiry and of this motion at the plenary session of the Basque Parliament makes sense. It takes political will to reform and regenerate all these institutions and to carry out the reforms that Spain needs. He had recently read in a media outlet that judges numbered 2,000 those investigated for political corruption and demanded more means. If there is something clear about what justice needs in Spain, it is that more means are needed and more judicial independence is needed as a way of delivering better justice and more equality to all Spanish citizens. There are dozens and dozens of cases of corruption affecting virtually all political parties. UPyD has kept itself safe from all that corruption mud. Since 2007, zero accused and zero corrupt; 10 in transparency; diaphanous commitment against political corruption and multiple initiatives to fight against amigoism, opacity, corruption, mismanagement and political corruption, including actions before the courts when we have no other remedy. Here is the Bankia case, the preferred ones, the black cards, Rat and many other initiatives, judicial proceedings that sought to do justice when the path of parliaments closed to us or when the rest of the political parties repeatedly voted against certain initiatives and reforms. UPyD refused to form part of the boards of directors of savings banks and refused to be on the boards of directors of televisions. We also refuse to participate in the pie of justice. We have been defending multiple initiatives to professionalize justice, to suppress squabbles, to depoliticize the main institutions of the State and, in general, to perfect and regenerate democracy: with facts, not words or simple cosmetics, but with relevant actions in the different institutions and, as I said before, with judicial proceedings. When we have put forward such initiatives, such as today's, or similar initiatives, or others that had to do with everything I am saying, the rest of the political parties have repeatedly voted against, although, yes, some of them in some cases proposed similar reforms and included similar reforms in their political programmes, which they subsequently left aside again instead of trying to defend those reforms in parliaments. If we attend to what is the General Council of the Judiciary, this body has been a partisan battlefield both in the election of its vowels and in its functioning. It must not be forgotten that it is a body with much power and influence, and with relevant functions: the report of laws on judicial policy issues, the power to propose legislative reforms, participation in the process of appointing the Attorney General of the State and the judges of the Constitutional Court, disciplinary regime and inspection and, above all, the control of promotions in the judicial career to certain posts (i.e., decides who goes up and who does not). The politicization of an institution with so much power has meant the politicization of the entire judicial system, which is deeply undemocratic and very negative for society as a whole. This politicization has led to a very serious deterioration of the judicial system, to the point that the World Economic Forum, a non-profit international foundation, recently placed Spain at the 60th out of 133 in terms of judicial independence, behind countries such as Namibia, Botswana, Malawi and the Gambia. It is not something we say because yes, but there are different studies that come to reiterate it permanently. Therefore, we must depoliticize, we must decolonize justice in Spain. The General Council of the Judiciary, the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court must be depoliticized. The Public Prosecutor's Office must be depoliticized, eliminating its hierarchical office of the Government; a practical example of absolute partiality and shameful politicization of the Public Prosecutor's Office would be in the Noos case, with a public prosecutor acting as a defence counsel. It is important to note that there is a body, such as the Constitutional Court, which, although technically not part of the judicial system, has a close relationship with it. The Constitutional Court also operates with a system of party quotas that keeps it radically politicized; therefore, the Constitutional Court should also be depoliticized. And it is essential to reform the Criminal Prosecution Act in order to eliminate the time limitation of the investigation, now criminal investigation. There are many things that need to be done to make justice work better in Spain. We must eliminate the stumbling blocks – something we approved a few weeks ago in this Parliament – and criminalise the misappropriation of public funds and the illegal financing of political parties in order to better and more effectively combat political corruption. With all these reforms we would have a more agile, fairer and more equal justice for all. That is what we intend when we present and defend this motion. In recent times, more and more political parties have been calling against the politicization of justice in Spain and include in their political programmes certain reforms to ensure the independence of justice. We think it is right that it should be raised, but it will be better if it is made concrete and is a tangible reality and if these measures are really a reality approved in this Parliament or in the Congress of Deputies. At the moment we have reached at least one majority agreement with virtually all the groups in this House, and so we have signed a compromise with the Socialist Group, the People's Group and the Basque Nationalist Group. We do not know if it will do anything, we do not know whether this will do anything to push these Congress-represented political parties to come up with something similar and defend these reforms where they must primarily defend themselves. For our part, we have done everything we can. Although it is true that these political parties have participated in the division of justice, we considered it important that such a transactional could be approved in this Parliament to push in that direction, to take steps towards the depoliticization of justice. And so, we have signed a transactional that says: "The Basque Parliament urges the General Courts and the new Government of Spain to establish themselves to promote and address, with the greatest possible consensus and with the participation and dialogue of all those involved, all the legal reforms that are necessary", surely some of them constitutional, "in order to guarantee the independence of Justice and that it is at the service of the citizen". Thanks to the signatory groups for putting into this text something that we have been claiming for years. I wish it could be a reality sooner than later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Passing over the teams who are running the corrections, representing the Basque Potula Group, Mrs. Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning. You have spoken of various bodies which you believe are politicised, Mr Maneiro, but above all your motion concerns the politicisation of justice, and that is why it is the justice to which this group is going to refer. In support of the interpellation today, he has referred to different extremes. You spoke, although you did not say it here today, but in the interpellation, of the ratio of judges to inhabitants in Spain. That ratio, although you said it was 10, is not 10, but 12 and is within the average of the countries in our environment. Moreover, we are above countries with great legal tradition such as Italy, whose ratio is 11 or France, which is 10, and on the same index as Sweden, 12 and close to the Netherlands or Belgium, whose ratio is 14. Moreover, this similarity in the ratio of judges is consistent with the fact that, according to the latest annual report on indicators of European judicial systems drawn up by the European Commission, Spain is below the average of the countries of the Union in the time necessary to obtain judicial satisfaction of a right of credit. You also pointed out that political parties raise issues in their programmes, but that then – and you have also said it here today – nothing is seen in fact and nothing is done by modernising justice and by providing the means. Well, I have to say, Mr Maneiro, that in the previous parliamentary term (not in this very short one, in the previous one), in which the People's Party ruled, there is evidence that leaves no doubt that justice has been a priority for the government. Justice has been modernised through new technologies, and this is reflected in the new Civil Prosecution and Criminal Prosecution Act, and by allocating material resources for this (for example, in 2016, specifically, €78 million). The Organic Law of the Judiciary has also been amended to provide the governing chambers of the higher courts of justice with the capacity to modify the provincial division of cases, resulting in cases from one court to another and thus to gain in agility. The number of judges and prosecutors has increased significantly. And also, to give you figures, for example, the budget of the Ministry of Justice this year has grown by 7.24%, i.e. more than EUR 100 million. He also said, and he has repeated it here today, that democracy in Spain is of low quality, an issue on which we cannot agree with you, Mr Maneiro. Like everything else, I am sure that our system can be improved, and then I will refer to it too, but I do not share in any way that statement, which is so strict, that we are facing a democracy of low quality. And he has also insisted here today on the politicization of justice, and this implies that there are judges who are under political pressure, who succumb to those political pressures when they pass their sentences. And he also spoke of the lack of judicial independence. And those claims are serious, Mr. Maneiro. And I say to you here today the same thing that was said to Mrs Díez when this question was raised in the Congress of Deputies, because it has been raised many times there: if, in her opinion, there are judges who are not independent, if there are cases where the lack of independence of these judges is known, that is, that a judge has been pressured and the judge has been pressured to issue a certain resolution, that must be denounced, because that is a crime recognized in the Criminal Code. And, I told you before and I repeat, of course there is scope for improvement, of course. But it is also true that decades have been working to achieve professional and independent justice, an independent justice that consists of guaranteeing the right recognized in article 24.2 of the Constitution, that right to a judge predetermined by law that meets the requirements of article 117 of the Magna Charter. We have a very demanding and objective system of opposition, there is a professional career, the judiciary is endowed with material and human resources that help to guarantee its independence, the legislative framework has also been strengthened in the last legislature to ensure such independence in decisions of greater or lesser magnitude, but always aimed at this. And I will give you one example, which has been the modification of the system of responsibility of judges, who have become the same responsibility as the rest of the officials, that is, who have ceased to have responsibility directly over their assets, in order to further ensure their independence. And it is that justice, moreover, is made up of all those who work for it: judges, but also prosecutors, lawyers of the Administration of Justice, professionals such as lawyers, prosecutors, social graduates, and also other public administrations of the State and of the autonomous communities responsible for the provision of human and material resources. In Spain, all these actors that make up the justice system have made much progress in recent decades to make it independent, professional and quality. What's different, it's true, is the perception that sometimes the citizenry of justice has. And to avoid that perception, you need data and information, you have to continue working – and that is what I am with you – on transparency also in this sector, and on an element that is beginning to be relevant also in other countries, such as open justice. This will bring justice closer to citizens, make it more comprehensible and accessible, and introduce new technologies that allow such accessibility and accountability to society, with the commitment of all those within the sphere of justice. You spoke of the politicization of the judicial system, of the judiciary, and set the General Council of the judiciary as an example. Here, too, I must say that there is a need to distinguish between the judiciary and the General Council of the Judiciary, because the judiciary is composed of judges (as defined in article 117 of the Constitution) and yet the General Council of the Judiciary has no jurisdictional tasks (its functions are regulated in article 122 of the Constitution). He is responsible, as he has said, for the administrative and political governance of the judicial institution and has assigned functions in the areas of appointment, promotion, inspection and disciplinary regime. We believe that it is a mistake to mix the choice of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary with the purity of the rulings handed down by judges and judges. And we are going to refer to the way in which the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, which has been one of the most reformed institutions since the 1978 Constitution, are elected. It seems that your election to Parliament deprives you of legitimacy or that the election of other people by a parliament deprives you of legitimacy. We don't think so. Regardless of whether the election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary, elected by Parliament, which is the highest expression of the majority will of the Spanish people, can be considered, does not remove its legitimacy, but gives it a greater degree of legitimacy. But, as I was saying, that does not take away so that among all democratic forces and by consensus we decide to improve the system and look for new formulas that give greater plurality and greater effectiveness in the functioning of both the General Council of the Judiciary and the rest. Well, I have to say that, in this regard, the People's Party had in its agenda to promote an agreement with the political forces and with all those who would like to join it to further guarantee the independence of the General Council of the Judiciary and to strengthen its work as a governing body of judges. We are presenting here an amendment urging the Government of Spain to promote and bring to Parliament a national justice strategy, which will provide a forum for the development of this strategy, involving all concerned: the judiciary, the Ministry of Public Prosecutions, legal operators (professionals, collaborating bodies and administrative bodies providing services) and public administrations, as well as the various political forces representing citizens, to analyse the implementation of this strategy and to make appropriate recommendations for the development of this strategy. This amendment that I tabled here today is the one that we had in our electoral programme, which was not only endorsed mostly on 20 December, but has been even more endorsed now on 26 June. A great deal of agreement is needed between all political forces, because matters of silence such as this have to be done by consensus. But not only of the political forces: also of the administrations involved and of the judicial professionals, and, as I told you, of all the legal operators. That among all, from dialogue and agreement, we can articulate that transformation project that Spanish justice needs. That is why we have signed that compromise amendment, because it is true that there is scope for improvement and it is true that in a matter like this, which must be a state agreement, it is yours to go together with the hand and with consensus. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u60	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u61	Thank you, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Good morning, lehendakari. Today, the last day in full ordinary of this tenth parliamentary term, this Parliament is once again debating a motion following the questioning of the spokesman for UPyD, calling for reforms to ensure the depoliticisation of justice. As you already know, we, the Socialist Group, have always been very interested in all those initiatives that have to do with justice, because in fact I will remind you that most of the debates in this Parliament during this parliamentary term have been at the very request of our group. Above all, those aimed at a clear objective, which is to point to justice as an essential public service, as a public service to the order of the citizenry. And this is not by chance. In fact, this is because we have a commitment, internalized and firm, which has a lot to do, everything to do, with guaranteeing the protection of the rights and freedoms of people. You, Mr Maneiro, in your question, from which this motion derives, spoke that the depoliticization of justice in Spain would be settled by five or six measures, and neither then nor now, except for error or omission, have had the pleasure of listening to any of them. I thank you very much for the tone of your speech today, because it has been a conciliatory and kind tone, because there have been times when the debate has been more blunt in this type of matter. But the approach you have taken with this motion leads me to say that, as you suspected, you have brought this matter here not to talk about the depoliticization of justice, not to defend an independent justice, but to try to distribute a little bit of stump to right and sinister and to do the usual thing, that is, to rise up as the only defender, the only adalid of the world against corruption, because it is, in the end, where you always direct your steps. And uniting corruption and justice is a little futile. So I don't really feel like dancing the water and I'm not gonna give the profane a hand. But I have to say that there are many times that you have a very great ability to make friends in 10 minutes and destroy the value of the agreement in two. And you do it with a lot of talent, because in the end, even though there is an agreement, you shoot everything that moves. And although today, I repeat, the subject has been much less bronchus, in the end, you always drop that you... I don't know which agency will have given you the triple A+, but you understand me perfectly what I want to tell you. In any case, the Socialists take these things very seriously, and I will go to the heart of the matter. And I will tell you one of the measures that we have put forward and that we will propose in the next legislature to substantially modify that justice that I was talking about at first, that justice at the service of people. It is true that the citizen's assessment of some institutions has been deteriorated in recent times; especially, as you said, some constitutional bodies, and regulatory bodies as well, whose independence and impartiality are being questioned. And, therefore, it is up to us to make reforms, and it is up to us to modify the procedure of their parliamentary appointment fundamentally, and to do so through public call, assessment of the competence and suitability of the candidates by an advisory committee of fundamentally professional composition, with publicity of the evaluation reports, with hearings, etc. And this should not only apply to the Constitutional Court, to the General Council of the Judiciary and to the Prosecutor's Office, as you said, but also to the Court of Auditors, to the Ombudsman's Office, to the National Securities Market Commission, to the National Market and Competition Commission, to the Fiscal Accountability Authority, to members of the Central Electoral Board, to the State Council for Audiovisual Media, for example. It is also necessary to reform the Organic Law of the Judiciary, to redefine the new organizational and territorial structure of the judiciary itself, to correct the dysfunctions of the General Council and to ensure that the constitutional provisions on the system of appointment of its members, composition, collegiality and plurality are complied with. And all this said, that I believe they are measures – not five or six, just as they were then spoken of – I return to where I started, and that I also believe it is the most important thing. I think it's clear, but I'll repeat it. Socialists want justice that guarantees our rights and the exercise of our freedoms, that protects our rights and rights. And that is nothing but a public service that is set up as a pillar to guarantee public freedoms and citizenship rights. We are particularly interested in justice, Mr Maneiro, of all days: that which is practiced in the courts and in the ordinary courts, that which resolves the demands of the people, which satisfies, above all, the exercise of our jurisdictional actions. This justice is based on equal opportunities and the prevention of social conflict. We want a justice that guarantees effective judicial protection in truth, within a comprehensive policy of reparation for the damage that can be suffered by citizens. A justice that really guarantees the use of free justice, which is the only horizon for the protection of the most vulnerable. And this can only be done by increasing budgetary resources to ensure that effective judicial protection that we are so much talking about and without which a country is not truly decent. And it is up to us to make changes that will improve the right to free justice, both for the plaintiffs and for the professionals, and to achieve definitively a retributive dignity of the office shift. And I say retributive because the office shift has always been worthy, and I say so with knowledge of cause. A restorative and quality justice that has citizen participation, protects its rights and resolves disputes and disputes quickly and efficiently, offering legal certainty. We want an accessible justice in which conflicts are resolved in a just and reasonable manner. It provides citizens with effective and efficient care and service, with sufficient personal and material means and with full incorporation of new technologies. It is also important to reorganize the judicial plant in a rational way, so that the new judicial map is adapted to the new social and territorial realities, always preserving the justice of proximity. It is also important to continue to defend civil registration as a public service and free of charge. You have to see what kind of interference with him, with the civil record! Anyway, we'll keep doing it. This is what needs to be done to make justice truly fair. What needs to be done is to give citizens what they deserve. And what you deserve is a public service at your command. And I am delighted to have signed this compromise amendment, but the main reasons are these, those of justice at the service of citizenship. I thank all the groups that have signed. And to those who have not signed, I also thank you for your support. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Unite the EH team as representative. Mr. Azuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u63	Thank you, Mr. President. Good noon, everyone. Sometimes, when they come to such things, they are said to be repeating, we have already discussed them; And it is true that we have discussed this subject elsewhere. I like to see what has been the course of the theme and the position of each group that has been introduced around it, the whole sequence of seeing and see if there is any movement in it. I found that this subject had been treated a year ago: P.P. protested that EAJ had condemned justice by a case of corruption, and then PP, PSE, and UPyD showed the protection of justice, which stood in favor of the division of the powers, and signed against the censure of the sentence. This position of the hour is sometimes maucised with this present initiative in some cases. And I thought, at least this time, that we were passing from the protection of justice to criticise justice, or at least that was the object of Mr. Maneiro. And I thought it was right and the movement, somehow, was good, or I applauded. With the first position at PP, I thought they were trying to sell us smoke. Now it has been said that they bring in a strategy that they brought in their advance program. They call it "remondios portunatus." I even saw in PSE and EAJ's original position that they planned legal changes. I thought that Mrs. Gallaustegui was still more courageous or more courageous; for she plainly mentioned that the melon of the Constitution ought to be spread, and that the constitutional changes should be made; it is all right. This has been removed from the last half-way, and I do not know whether or not Mrs. Gallastegui sees its position in the middle. He'll tell us on the next round. In this sequence we didn't import much in this movement, for we had the same year's position. We think justice, if it is good, must be near and effective-that is to say, to encourage justice here and to build justice here. That's our position. And in the dispute which I say, a year ago, I must say, he had the greatest protection: our 21st voice, and EAJ, it's over. And what I interpret from this point of view is, that of these seventy-four members, there would be at least 48 ready to appear in favour of justice, or at least that they are not opposed to the building of eucal justice. I must say, I took this initiative with interest, and continued with interest the exposure of Maneiro in his interaction with Mr. Erkoreke. And perhaps there is no great precedent in these past years, but in this last common pleno, I must say that I have agreed to the position of Maneiro in several points. I agreed on certain things he said. I agreed on the diagnosis, but I didn't agree with the arrangement he later proposed. I saw two parts in the original position that he brought. In the positive section, in Spain, he claims that justice is independent of political parties, and says that it is depensive, and also that it is essentially the Grand Council of Judicial Power, the Supreme Court, the Constitution, and the Attorney General of the State, that is to say, it is political. And I agree with that position. I do not agree with the assertion that this can be done through a form of law, because I think that the relations of force do not allow it to be so. This must be done in Madrid, we know how the Senate is, we know how Congress is staying, and I think that these forms of legislation can't be done because there's no real will. And I think, too, that this has been clearly here in the previous interferences. He said that I listened with interest to Mr Maneiro's inquiry, because I agree that it is not a stain of origin only that which exists, that is, how those who are going to form the different organs of the judiciary are chosen. You have to worry more about whether in that sort of drawing you will touch a majority of conservative judges, progressive judges: positions more than the legal reasons or arguments you can incorporate. Mr Maneiro said "They are taken by the political parties"; I agree. "Inability to leave the judiciary out of the partisan struggle and its particular interests"; correct. "The parties pollute everything," I agree. "This politicization has caused a very serious deterioration of the judicial system"; good. It also introduced the interesting fact that Spanish justice lies behind that of countries such as Namibia or Botswana; I agree. "They have ended up causing democracy in Spain to be of low quality"; correct. But I would go a little further: there is a spot of origin and a spot in its target. In other words, by placing these posts in the decision-making bodies of the courts or in their supervisory bodies, I do not believe that justice is being sought, but rather that it is being sought to mediate in decisions of justice, but highly politicized, or to mediate, ultimately, in politics. It is something that we in this town have known intensely and deeply. This is something that this Parliament has also discussed, what we have discussed. And I will not bring again that catalogue of grievances or attacks by the Spanish justice system to basic civil or political rights which have been violated in recent years and which we have discussed and which we have also adopted resolutions on. But he said that it coincided in the analysis, because it does not seem logical to put people dependent, partial, on part, on a party for a service that is called, or called, or that is called independent, impartial or neutral. What I do not know is whether, once these explanations have been made, Mr Maneiro sees that with the fellow travellers he has come up with to make this resolution that he brings us today, there is a real possibility of those reforms that he proposes. Do you think they will? Is everything settled? Without mere cosmetics, he told us in the first round. Are you satisfied? Because it doesn't satisfy me. I believe that the position you bring us today will not lead to anything, it will have no objective whatsoever. And I would also tell you, Mr Maneiro, that it seems that the co-signatories do not have the objective that you presented either. I should have said, too, that I received it with great surprise, as Mr. Erkoreka replied to that position or interpelation which Mr. Maneiro had brought in. Mr. Erocre replied that it is true that we have but few jurisdictions here in justice and strict jurisdictions, that is to say, the means of the administration of Justice, were difficult to please the means of the materials, and the means of human means. So, in a way, it was what Mr. Erkoreke said: "It's not my business. We have enough of the competition we have here, and it must be substantialized elsewhere." I think Mr. Erkoreka lost a pretty chance to ask for more power, after all. He didn't take advantage of the discussion to say that, too, 'Eunkong' wants an independent, impartial, convincing, and eucalyptic justice. And I think that's not only possible, but that it's urgent. And I think he didn't take advantage of the chance of the Erkoa's showing that position because he doesn't really have it. And I think today EAJ, instead of going away for it, is more likely to explain the position in which he is situated than to protect this middle course. And if not, Mr. Zorrill, you'll come down and, please, explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u64	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u65	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President, chief physician, members of the legislature, good noon to all. First of all, Mr. Maniro, I must tell you that in general we agree with your concern and the care of society concerning the beauty of justice. It is a fundamental public service of justice that a democratic system may function properly. The judicial independence and the distinction of the powers are necessary and essential to protect the essential rights and liberties of all men. Now, Mr. Maneiro, you are concerned, but not to the extremes that you mentioned in your usual tremor. He said it was one of the most serious problems in Spain. I don't know, unemployment, economic situation, fraud, corruption... There are so many that it's hard to choose, right? And in his question on this subject, he came to qualify it as one of the most important calls that had been made in recent weeks in this Parliament. In this sense, it does draw our attention to the fact that, given your persistence and tenacity in other matters, in this one which you yourself describe as one of the most important present your first and only parliamentary initiative just by completing this parliamentary term. Everyone knows what the real motivation for their initiatives is. We must, at the same time, say that it is a complex subject, and therefore requires a profound and quiet discussion, and that it is necessary that the majority of the legislature should attempt to agree with it. That's complex, too. In that regard, we were guided by our entire amendment, which called on the General Courts and the Government of Spain to promote a deep debate and the search for the broadest possible consensus on the measures to be taken to ensure the independence of justice. The amendment finally had sex with the proposer, the Socialist Group and the People's Group. As the Councillor, Mr Erkoreka, said, this is not happening quickly and urgently, as he proposed in his initiative; he said that "actions should be taken urgently". We need, as you have said, far-reaching reforms, which require a great deal of consensus among the main parliamentary groups. See if the question is complex that even its former leader in the Congress of Deputies, Mrs Díez, to which reference has been made here, presented several initiatives in the Congress over the last few years, in the pure Maneiro style, the same several times, only on the modification of the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. I have not seen anything concerning the depoliticization of the Constitutional Court, for example, which you also mention. Both she and you here confuse, as you have been told, the judiciary with your governing body, the General Council of the Judiciary, and even with the Constitutional Court, which is not a strict part of that judiciary. This was explained in Congress by each and every political group to Mrs. Díez; among them there are well-known jurists, such as Mr. Emilio Olabarría. And Mr Erkoreka also highlighted it in the answer to his question. We are clear that one thing is justice, the administration of justice, which is the day-to-day delivery by judges and magistrates, men and women of whose professionalism and independence in their judicial work we have no doubt. Logically, as people, they will have their addiction or their ideology, but in the performance of their work day by day we believe they are responsible, professional and independent. And, if not, they have protection and protection mechanisms to use them, and here they have been highlighted in last year's debate to which Mr Arzuaga referred these protection mechanisms, which was not the result of criticism by the Basque Nationalist Party precisely when the judges applied for protection from the council. I do not know whether you have doubts about judges and magistrates in the application of justice on a day-to-day basis, whether you believe that they are not independent, that they are not impartial and that they are attached to political ideologies and that this conditions them in the application of the law. We could also talk about professional associations. Professional associations, whether we like it or not, also have their ideological attachment and that is irrefutable. This does not remove so that in professionalism they are governed by the application of the legal principle. As I was saying, we're clear on this. And another thing is the General Council of the Judiciary, which is the political organ of government of the judiciary, which is a body that does not exercise jurisdictional functions; those functions, those of judging and enforcing what is judged, are done by judges and magistrates day by day, Mr. Maneiro. And you pose the mechanisms of choice, and logically, here are different opinions, different options, and all of them are legitimate. And that is why we urge that there be a broad consensus, which, by the way, the law also requires – requires a qualified majority of three-fifths – but that it is not based only on majority, but is based on consensus, that is what we request. And we understand that those elected by the people's representatives do not take away any democratic legitimacy, but rather the opposite. Thus, different concepts: independence of the judiciary, the administration of justice, and the General Council of the judiciary, the governing body of the judiciary. In his motion he mixed very different realities, and not all of them can have homogeneous treatment and not all of them can be dealt with in the same way. That's what the counselor was telling you. He spoke about the Constitutional Court and recognized that it is a court that is clearly politicized; not because he said it, but because they say it is jurists of recognized prestige too. And, moreover, centralized; politicized and centralized. We therefore believe that the compromise we have signed is so broad that it can be signed, as it has been, by various parliamentary groups, and even I believe that even Euskal Herria Bildu could support it. On the other hand, by the literal tenor of his motion it seems that Mr Erkoreka in his inquiry into this matter convinced him, since at the time it is raised in other terms, at least with regard to the subject to whom it is addressed. And that change of focus I think is correct, although – and it surprised me – everything else has been an almost literal reproduction of your intervention in the full control of June 3. He was asking Lehendakari about the package of measures he intended to take or help to take by the Basque Government to depoliticize justice throughout Spain. It seems to have understood that this is a matter which, at least at present, goes far beyond the scope of the Basque Autonomous Community and, consequently, its Government and its powers. He said that at least today, because we, Euzko Abertzaleak, are demanding a Basque judiciary of our own, and for this, initially, the transfer of all competences in the field of justice to Euskadi: not only what is called the administration, with tiny numbers, of the administration of justice. Bai, Maneiro jauna eta Arzuaga jauna, guk, Euzko Abertzaleok, euskal botere judicial propriea aldarrikatzen dugu, éta horretarako, hasteko, justice alorreko eskumen guztiak Euskadira transferitzea. With political will, which you alluded to, Mr Maneiro, everything is possible. I am sure that here, in Euskadi, as in other matters, we will manage it much better than in the Spanish State. I have no doubt, and neither do Basque citizens. I began my speech by saying that we shared his concern about the politicization of justice and I will end up also expressing another concern, perhaps greater, closely linked – could be closely linked – with the phenomenon of the judicialization of politics. And of this, you, Maneiro, I think you know a lot. On the one hand, there are those who try to criminalize the political adversary by judicializing strictly political actions. Do you remember the case of the lehendakari Ibarretxe and, today, also the case of President Mas? By pointing out two of the most relevant cases, but there are many more, the list is endless. By not making this exhibition too long, I'll stick to yesterday's. Yesterday, also topical the topic of the school dining rooms, gentlemen of the PP; complaints in criminal way through administrative proceedings. And they don't fall for shame. In politics it is not all worth it, this is totally unacceptable. And, on the other hand, we also suffer with the State the constant judicialization of problems of an eminently political nature. I believe that the Government spoke in thirty-six conflicts in this legislature, conflicts before the Constitutional Court and before the courts. The latest and recent is the possible recourse against the EPO of Ertzaintza. This requires the capacity for political dialogue and negotiation – which, as seen, seems to be lacking in the Spanish political landscape – and to solve the problems politically, not judicially. Just like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u66	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. We'll take the answers turn. Misst, Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u67	Thank you, President. Mrs Llanos said that justice has been a priority for the PP throughout the last parliamentary term. Indeed, some reforms have been carried out, but there remains the fundamental one, which is the depoliticization of justice, which, on the other hand, you have claimed in the past, and some of those proposals that we have heard here today have even included in your electoral programmes. That is therefore the real reform of justice that is still pending in Spain: depoliticization, decolonization, which does not depend on political parties. That is the most important, that is precisely the one that you do not want to carry out. It's no UPyD invention. It is true that we have been raising this issue for years; there are international reports that place Spain as one of the countries where justice is less independent of political parties, and I have earlier pointed out a specific report. And here, as an essential issue, is the issue of how to elect the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. Mr Gallardón himself at the time proposed a change in the form of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. It is therefore essential to depoliticize this organ, which is now becoming a partisan battlefield. And this is not a perception of UPyD, it's a reality. The weaves between so-called conservative and progressive blocs to choose positions as presidents of hearings and higher courts are something well known and publicly commented, and the vowel that comes out of those blocs is even called transfugue. Therefore, this is not that it is an opinion. This is to analyze reality, see what has happened in Spain in recent times, observe how things work, compare it with other more developed countries in our environment and, from there, propose solutions. The General Council of the Judiciary, as you know better than a servant, has essential functions and, therefore, it is so important that it is not in the hands of the political parties, so that those functions are not conditioned by the interests of the political parties themselves. Mrs. Gallastegui, I haven't tried to spread the cloth. I have described the reality of the country and the facts give me reason for a fundamental cause, and it is that all of you, without any exception, have ended up recognizing that in Spain justice is not independent and that it is politicized, that it is colonized and that it is taken by the main political parties. I haven't given up anything, I've described reality. I have pointed out that this justice is mainly taken by the PP and the PSOE and that the Basque Nationalist Party and ICU have also participated in this justice cake, and that none of these political parties has put forward any clear reforms in the past – of those that you have quoted, Mrs Gallastegui – to modernise justice and make it more independent. I haven't given up anything, I've described reality. I did not intend to attack the rest of the political parties. But you are, the main political parties (PP and PSOE), the ones responsible for how things work in Spain, for good and for bad, and in Spain there are many things that work very badly. Therefore, it is normal for you to be responsible for everything that works so badly. He points out that some measures will be put forward in the next parliamentary term. It seems perfectly to us. Some of those reforms that you have put forward, Mrs Gallastegui, we have defended in the past and have always voted against, and the People's Party too, the cry of demagogues and anti-politicals. But it is good that they finally agree to these measures or even add more of their own harvest. Everything that is good for regenerating democracy for us will seem great to us. With regard to the General Council of the Judiciary, the People's Party was already in its programme for the 2011 general elections to promote the reform of the system of election of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary so that, according to the Constitution, 12 of its 20 members are elected from among and by judges of all categories. It was one of his major failures, but it was pointed out in his program. And the Spanish Socialist Workers Party also pointed out that the election of members of the General Council of the Judiciary could not continue to be negotiated between political parties and that the organ had to be depoliticized. So, we all agree. Some reforms have been put forward in recent times, they are in their electoral programmes; now what we want is for them to be implemented. From the Basque Nationalist Party, we do not know any measures to try to depoliticize justice in Spain. But, in any case, if you have one that seems right to us, we will celebrate it, there is no problem. All this is what I think needs to be done. It's not about rushing and running, Mr. Zorrilla. It's been 30 years, maybe we can spend another 30. I think it's a reform that needs to be done as soon as possible, but it doesn't rush and run. I know it's all very slow in politics, but the sooner the better. And judging certain political leaders is something that puts on the table that all citizens should be equal before the law.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u68	Finish up, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u69	That is why Mr Ibarretxe or Mr Mas can be judged at certain times. I'm done. You have had the opportunity to make all your demands and all your proposals. Do you know what's most important to a server? That all of you have recognized that justice in Spain is politicized. It is recognized that something is wrong, now it is a question of promoting the reforms that are necessary for the justice in Spain to be truly independent, agile and equal for all. That is the objective, that is the success that UPyD has achieved in today's plenary, Mr Lehendakari: that all political parties, without exception, have recognized that justice in Spain is politicized. In the recent past they have always denied it. They have always said that it was not politicized and that those reforms that UPyD was proposing were unnecessary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u70	Thank you, Mr. Maniro.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u71	And in relation to Mr. Arzuaga, I was saying...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u72	Thank you. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u73	Ten seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u74	Five, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u75	jaunak:... What traveling companions I have chosen, Mr. Arzuaga. The travelling companions in this Parliament, I have no others, there were no others: the People's Party, the Basque Nationalist Party and the Basque Socialist Party. If I believe you will carry out these reforms? I don't think so. But at least they have wet themselves and acknowledged that justice in Spain is politicized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u76	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Miss Llanos, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u77	Mr. Maneiro, how you like to do, in addition to tremors, as has been said here, maximalisms! How he likes it! Above all, saying that the one who got us all to recognize is UPyD. What would we have done in this legislature without you, Mr. Maneiro? I must tell you that, as in everything else, and I believe that we have recognised it by all political groups, of course it can be improved, but maximalism cannot be achieved. It cannot be said that justice is not independent in Spain, because it is false. It's just that the judges are independent. We do not know if he had managed to win another political group, judges would gain access by professional career or finger, but with those who have ruled so far they gain access through opposition and professionally. You can't say – and I knew who that phrase you said was going to be used for – that Spain is a low-quality democracy. I knew it was going to be used by EH Bildu. And, in fact, you see that you have pondered many of your criteria, because there is nothing that EH Bildu likes more than saying that the Spanish institutions are contaminated and that they have low quality – and you have contributed to it – and that is not the case. That there is scope for improvement? Of course I do. I recognize him. Is it true that there was a bill to change the appointment of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary? Yeah. What is happening is that, I have told you, in this matter the fundamental thing is to go hand in hand, to reach a consensus. And of course the People's Party could have changed, but surely then it would have been censored that it had done so only by its votes and not by consensus. And that was the amendment we were making, exactly. When I was talking about a strategy, it wasn't selling smoke, Mr. Arzuaga. It was that this strategy not only changed the way in which the General Council of the Judiciary was appointed, which was one of the aspects, but that it was possible to improve everything, in order to achieve a more efficient, more agile, higher quality justice and, of course, the service of the citizenry, because, like all the powers of the State, it had to be at the service of the citizenry, and that was constitutionally enshrined. But this does not mean to throw away everything that has happened before. It's not about making a clean slate. It is not a question of saying that what has happened so far has been disastrous, has worked very badly, there was no independence, there was only politicization, justice was taken by the legislature, because it is not. It is not so, that is to make maximalisms, and false maximalisms, Mr Maneiro, false. And the Basque Nationalist Party said that if justice were the responsibility of the Basque Government, it would do better. Man, like everything. You always say that whatever you do, much better. Well, with Lanbide I don't know what to say, huh? Because getting active employment policies to Euskadi and here the job was going to run, and it didn't, huh? No mano and Lanbide works like it does. And you were talking about the depoliticization of judicial bodies and institutions. I have to tell you that your presidents aren't very good, Mr. Zorrilla. It is not a court, even if it has the name, but the Basque Court of Public Accounts, its president, is an example of absolute politicization. Absolutely. Because, how can you put it as president, of whom you have to control the accounts of the Bizkaia Foral Chamber, to whom has been the deputy general of Bizkaia? Do you really believe that this is an example of depoliticization of institutions? Is that the Basque concept of depoliticization? Not Basque: the nationalist concept, of the Basque Nationalist Party, of depoliticization? I'm telling you, as an example and as a premise, it's not very good. Independence. Mr. Arzuaga, independence from the judiciary. Of course I do. But the independence of the judiciary in Euskadi has long been clearly alibied. Many judges have had to be escorted. Even my teacher, Mr. Lido, was killed by a terrorist gang. And that affected the independence of the judiciary. And I'm still waiting for you to censor that attack on the independence of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u78	Thank you, Miss Llanos. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Gallaustegui, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u79	Thank you, President. Good morning again, ladies and gentlemen. Let's see, Mr. Maneiro. I have no problem in making you happy. Besides, I love everyone being happy. Therefore, if it makes you happy to consider that everyone in this rostrum today has come to the same conclusion as you, for you the fat bitch. I don't think I've ever used the word depoliticization. And I've always been talking about justice at the service of citizenship. And I think I told you that what I was going to put to you are the measures that we have and that we are going to propose in the next legislature to substantially improve that justice that we want, which is ultimately what we care about. In any case, I think you have wasted – and not the only one – a great opportunity to say exactly what measures you propose. Because, I have told you before and I repeat to you now, I have not heard you enter, today, say not a single measure. Not one. You've been talking about "there's that," "there's that," and that makes me think. And if you haven't come out here to stop, I have to believe you, but the truth is you haven't talked about the bottom line at all. You have devoted yourself to saying that the governing bodies and the judicial bodies are co-sponsored by a number of parties. I mean, you've come here to talk about your book. And it seems perfect to me, because if that makes you happy, I am delighted to collaborate in your happiness. And that's something that's not from now on, it's from always. Mr Arzuaga, you have started by saying that this is not the first time we have talked about justice in this Parliament, and to ratify that you have said one thing that I do not know whether it is because of translation or not, but it is absolutely wrong. The Socialist Group has never signed in its life a compromise amendment in which it is agreed not to criticize justice. Never. What we have said as active and passive, and we will always repeat it, and I repeat it here again today, is that justice in a democratic state is respected. It's always respected. And the means and systems of appeal are used if one disagrees with what the judges say, until the firmness of the sentences, as you know. And I have great respect for you from the point of view of legal knowledge; therefore, I have also been somewhat disappointed that you have not spoken about constitutional reform. We are talking about the necessary legal reforms, and in this country the supreme rule of our legal system is the Constitution. And, therefore, it goes without saying that, as we have been saying for a very long time, we are going to urge all the constitutional reforms that are necessary, in order to adapt our supreme norm to the current reality of our country, which, by the way, has been one of the things you asked for in your entire amendment. And then it also disappointed me, because I was very interested in knowing what measures you were going to take to do what you say you want to do in your entire amendment, and I have not heard you say anything about that. You've been lying here the time of your intervention to tell us what we're not going to do. What do you mean, we're not gonna do it! Do you have powers ad futurum? You defend what you have to defend and we will do what we have to do. And, I also say to you, for those constitutional reforms or for many reforms in which it is yours, above all, to improve the living conditions of citizens, you have two representatives in Congress who can help us very much. I invite you to take the rights, freedoms of all citizens seriously, and to support us in this series of measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Gallastegui. Mr. Azuga, representative of the EH Group, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u81	Thank you. Mr. Maniro says that we all share that justice is not independent and that justice is refined. I'm glad he sees it that way, but I think it's not. In this second shift, things have been made clearer, and I feel that you meet reality. And I'm glad of something else, and it's about not protecting this middle term. For we have often seen things sign at once, and then there are differences in their positions, but I should say that this medium really is a cricket nest where one of them has made an interpretation of what he was doing. It is surprising that from a short expression, from a four-line expression, to interpret the various interpretations of this four lines, that these four lines may be understood to be broad, flexible, and interpreting in a form of interpretation, because in these four lines the constitutional reform of M. M. Gallarassis, the recommendations of Llanos, enter into the euscal of the Zorrill, and enter the criticisms which Mr. Maniro makes, that justice is not independent and beautiful. I'm actually saying that I'm glad we're not going to protect this middle-class. I ask what are my measures, in order to do what I propose. I will explain it differently: What are the legal reforms you're about to take to do what you're proposing. Because I think there's no way out of it. Our two voices will be there if there are changes, but I think the lock will come from somewhere else. And whether we think there will be a legislature change in Madrid, as things are, and I don't think there will be. So I think it's much more effective to make our way here with a model of the administration of justice required by the majority of society, where we'll deal with the locals here and we'll do it for the people here. And, after all, if we had to make a statement today, I'm staying with my statement. You didn't convince me. And I think, as I say, that what you plan is of no efficacy. You've often seen me come down from my position, if I can see the efficiency of it, but in this case I had no reason to descend from this coherent position of mine, because I can see no path to this position you're testing here today. I conclude by mentioning a question that has to do with the decantation of the PNV towards the two positions that are on the table today: whether we were going to decide on that request for legislative reforms that everyone interprets in their own way or whether we were going to decide on a request for a system of justice of their own. And I say again that Mr Erkoreka did not take advantage of the debate with Mr Maneiro to make a position of defence of a Basque justice, not of an administration of the administration, which is what is today, but of an administration of Basque justice. He didn't take advantage of it. And I was afraid that it was perhaps because of the attitude he is demonstrating on some issues of justice, such as the attitude he has with forensic doctors, the nullity he is showing towards civil registers, and, in a way, if it is because it determines that the Administration of Justice or the powers over the Administration of Justice result that they are not a taste dish of the Basque Government or, perhaps, of the PNV. A position which, from my point of view, absolutely lacks any kind of ambition. It is also true that Mr Zorrilla has been more explicit today, he has claimed it. But, I still say, you have then preferred with your signature to fall, to decanter yourself on the side of reforms that, I am afraid, Mr Zorrilla, will not arrive, rather than make a claim, as I proposed, of an independent Basque justice system, impartial, effective, close, close, Basque, with natural judges for a citizenship of today and here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u82	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. And finally, the Eubertians. Mr. Abrahams, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u83	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr Maneiro, the thing about rushes, running and so on is not that I have said it; in your motion which gives rise to this debate it says "to push urgently". That is why we urgently countered it with a "deep debate," which is why the rush was bad advice. On the other hand, you have not answered the only question I have asked you, that if you believe that the judges and magistrates, men and women, who today exercise the jurisdictional function, judging and enforcing the court, are independent or not. We are clear about your professionalism and independence, you have not expressed yourself in this regard. And finally, he was talking about our proposals. Our proposals will be presented as we always do, wherever they are to be presented. Not like you. I do not think he has said so today, but in the plenary he said that with five, six or seven essential reforms it would be enough for his objective. Well, as Mr Erkoreka told you, I would like to present your proposals. To this day he has not presented them, neither here nor in Congress. Mrs Díez has only presented one repeatedly. And I would also like to say that our proposals, as we achieve our goal – Mr Arzuaga said – as we walk, the PNV, that party that you liked – no longer so much – to call old, with more than 120 years (old parties, new parties, said, those strong and solid, with a broad social base, and those based on personalisms that lapse with the person), the PNV, has always worked and contributed, with each other, responsibly and loyally to improve the quality of life of our citizens, the Basque society in short, and in this matter we will also continue to do so. About Mrs. Llanos. He told me that, of course, for the PNV everything is done here better than in Madrid. What do you want me to say? It's not a subjective perfection. When I gave him earlier the data that Spanish concerns were unemployment in the first place, the economic situation the second and fraud and political corruption the third, they were data from the CIS report of 2016. And taking the data from the Basque Sociometer carried out in March 2016, to the question about the satisfaction with the functioning of democracy, since we have said that justice is an essential public service for the proper functioning of a democratic system, in Euskadi 62% felt very satisfied or quite satisfied about the way democracy works in Euskadi, while in the Spanish state (where things are done better, but Basque society does not think so) very satisfied or quite satisfied with how democracy works – and between that will be justice – it was 29% compared to 63% that I did not think. It is not a subjective perception of me or this party; it is an opinion with data, Mrs Llanos. He was also talking about the president of the Basque Court of Auditors. I did not know whether Mr Martínez Churiaque would be referred to; then he has already specified that he was the current one, that, like that one, he is elected by this Parliament, that he is competent to do so, and that, like that one, he meets the legal requirements for his appointment. And in this case you will have to comply with the rules governing the Basque Court of Public Accounts, and therefore you will have to abstain if there is any issue that could affect the institution you previously led. Finally, and focusing – because this has been a touch that has dropped – on justice, it is funny that the People's Party has introduced in this compromise amendment the phrase "with the participation and dialogue of all those involved". The People's Party. Where has the People's Party been?, what has the People's Party been doing for these four years? Roll, roll, and don't talk to anyone. Here we have discussed a lot of laws that have been passed and that have not been dealt with; here we have talked about the law gags, a lot of laws in which the People's Party has had those involved outside of all the regulations. And about the autonomous councils of the judiciary, which are recognized in various statutes, where are they, Mrs. Llanos? Where are they today? They've been completely obviated. And, finally, I would like to tell Mr Arzuaga that he will be able to say something louder, but no clearer than what we have said. A self-government paper has been developed during this legislature, in which there are proposals from the parties. And if you take the proposals related to this issue, both from EH Bildu and the Basque Nationalist Party, they are in the same line: to develop a system of administration of justice (with A capital). Therefore, sit and talk and agree, because there are many things to agree on. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u84	Thank you, Mr. Zorrill. End of discussion, we're going to vote for the Mistto-UPyD, the Basque Popular, the Basque Socialists, and the Middle Amendment signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given, 74; the supporters are 54; the opponents are 20; the white ones, 0; abstaining, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-06-30.u85	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. As we've exhausted the list of subjects, I end the whole meeting. It was one o'clock in the afternoon and thirty-nine.
