ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u0	Good morning, everyone. We'll start the whole meeting. Remember the Borja Sémper vote for Laura Garrido. Remember, today is the day when you guys can get the blood out. Just give it a chance that we're going to make shrimps and votes at the end. First point in theme list: "Mution, introduced by Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors, on the re-establishment of the refusal of this people to NATO. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mr. Azuga, it's your word to introduce and take care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u1	Thank you, Mr. President. President, chief of departments, members of the legislature, good morning to all. On March 12th, 1986, nearly 30 years ago, the NATO refrendum was performed in the Spanish State and the Basque Country. One majority of the Basque People, the majority of the majority, the clear majority, the '62%, 'NATO not,' said clearly: 68% of Gipuzian, 64% Bizian, 60% Aran and 53% Nafarro. So the result is indisputable. Things have changed since then, we've changed, the Basque Country has changed, and NATO has changed. But not always for good, at least not for NATO's. Thirty years later, EH Collect wants to put this decision to value and confirm that "NATO not" by this initiative. We have reasons for that. I'll take ten reasons for confirming "NATO not" even today. One. NATO has deployed military assaults in several countries in the world, and war has been exploited by war. There were several Western powers that created NATO in 1949 as a defense tool. The object was to support each other in the military defence of the Cold War. The Soviet Union has disappeared, the War of War is over, the Cold War is over, NATO was no longer hostile, but instead of dissolved, it finds what seeks new enemies and "finds them." Thus, in spite of the international legislation, NATO has spread its military attack in several countries: Yugoslavia, Iraq, Afghanistan, Libya, Somalia, Palestine, Ukraine, Syria... It spreads itself to the whole world as the crisis of war, death, and misery, refugees. The victims of these conflicts are countless. Some sources say we're already in a third delocated war. Two. NATO, besides the military and Ceuseratic interests, takes up the exportation of the primary and natural resources. NATO has old jobs, but also new things. To the usual interests he will add new ends: The oil, the gas, the uranium, copper, costana, and any other primary object or natural resource which the wealthy states of the world require or desire. Three. NATO militarizes the planet, encourages the war industry, increases the arms escalation. This bellicose, militarist, imperialist, interventionist NATO continually seeks to measure itself with other governments, with other powers, with other bellicose, militarist, imperialist, interventionist bodies, whether this Russia, whether China, Africa or the East. This NATO is leading to an ever-increasing increase in resources for war; it needs military material that is always in need of renewal, always in need of modernization, more supply and more destructive capacity. NATO is multiplying military spending, an illegitimate expenditure that would be best used in absolutely any other cause: only with 17% of the spending that Western governments are squandering in NATO could poverty be eradicated in the world. An expense that, instead of avoiding the risk of war, increases it. Four. NATO is increasing the use of nuclear weapons and the danger of nuclear war. NATO maintains nuclear weapons on European soil. The doctrine about its use is clear: in case of danger, let us be the first to use it. The threat is always there: from that decision to install anti-missile shields on the borders with Russia (then radars in the Czech Republic and military batteries in Poland), we have now, more currently, moved to host similar systems on other bases, as is the case with the Rota base in Cadiz. There are powerful indications of the use of Spanish State ports in the transport and storage of nuclear weapons. Five. Europe is hostage to the foreign policy decisions of the United States. NATO is the mechanism for the protection of European foreign policy, which cannot freely decide what the global role it must or wants to play. Subjected to NATO, Europe cannot fulfil the objectives set out in the Charter of the United Nations, in particular the objective of peace, but also that of contributing to friendly relations among nations with respect for the principle of equal rights and free self-determination of peoples, or with the aim of avoiding the scourge of war for new generations. Spain has shown its interest in having a seat in that belligerent scenario, to participate in that escalation of violence promoted by NATO. However, it has only managed to show its most absolute subordination to the imperialist policy that is designed in Washington. Six. They come from NATO and TTIP, both feeding on brutal capitalism and imperialism. NATO and TTIP are two sides of the same coin, in this case, on the purpose of controlling the markets of the world. The wishes of the United States are reposed, legisations, or modes, and the imperialism of the dollar is established above the economic interests of the European Union. Again, Europe will be defeated with the impossibility of making decisions. Seven. NATO is not a democratic institution, and we have no power to decide upon it. Spain said he wouldn't be involved in the military structure of NATO: he did. He participates in the struggles, takes part in the means, and participates in the economically. He's very proud that Spain says it's the seventh tenor at NATO's expense. We can't participate in his decisions, of course. He insisted on my interaction with the president: others introduced us to NATO that we have no potential, no aptitude, no possibility at all. As the President explained to me, the only thing we can do in a way is to use a wide network in the wide world (like the Euscal House or the Cultural Capital of St. It's good to spread the stocks, but we're keeping NATO chained inside. Eight. NATO increases maneuvers and military presence in the Basque Country. The Basque Country is also the scene of OTAN's operacis. In the natural camp of the barricades they perform constant military exercises, or a few months ago, to the point of Trident Juncture 2015, they brought the black port of the Saints' port, and thousands of thousands of military vehicles, thousands of thousands of military vehicles, crossed our territory. This sort of practice seems offensive to many of the people of Esscals, and is considered as a gravity. Nine. Because we defend the world without war and the Basque Country without an army. In the Basque Country the movement of consciousness increased. At this moment the movement of the Spanish army was arrived. The antimilitary movement, the movement against war, and even the strong movements of the union between the people and we have in the Basque Country. This Euska Insumitual People, antimilitary, and solidarian, is a very incompathetic when we participate in NATO. Ten. "No! "Because he told it democraticly. In four parts of the South Basque Country, there was a large population of mobitiation, and a majority voted against NATO. The vote on the counter, 828, nearly doubles the side, 424,000, was a very big participate. The people's firm resolution was a clear resolution. The Basque People didn't want to be part of NATO. This decision was the initiative of an independent nation. Take the independent, even in the form and in the side. I suppose that resolution in this country has hitherto been taken into place. For years this decision has made room for us. For years we couldn't vote in that referendum. For the sake of a democratic exercise of deliberation, and also for the sake of what has been decided, of content, of the substance. Well, what decided then, we think it's all about today. We haven't forgotten. To refuse to accept what has been decided is still complete today. We didn't forget that idea either. This people rejected, repudiated NATO; however, it remains chained to its designs, interests or whims. This people remains chained to decisions that others have taken and from which we cannot leave. This is what we want to respond to today, and this is what we want to give a positive opinion of that decision taken at Euskal Herria against NATO. Because it's time to respect the decision of the Basque People, no war, no TTIP, no NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u2	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Passing the crews who were running the corrections, representing the Basque Potion Group. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u3	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Lehendakari, councillor, good morning. I'll be brief. Of course, my group will vote against the non-law proposal presented to us by Bildu. We are in favour of our country's presence in international structures that strengthen us and unite us with our partners, our allies, and in that regard we fully agree with membership of the Atlantic Alliance as a country. Indeed, NATO is an alliance, it is a military organization, but of course it is much more than that. It is articulated for the defense of its partners, which are Western democracies, partners that have been increasing since its foundation in 1949. There are already twenty-eight countries, but it is many more countries that are associated, those that propose accessions. The truth is that I have not seen in these years, we have not seen Basque society ask us to get out of any European or international structure in which we integrate, and less after the risks, after the threats we observe in our environment, which we observe in the world and which also concern us, this country. In addition, the European Union is a Nobel Peace Prize political structure, and the vast majority of its countries are part of NATO. For that, to guarantee peace, and, of course, if it touches, to defend us. Look, the obsession of some of you is to get out, get out of the structures to which we belong, always get out of the environments in which we share actions with other partners: get out of Spain, get out of Europe, get out of NATO. Well, that's not what they're going to convince us, of course they're not going to convince us. And we also think that they have to convince us, because it would be a mistake, it would be something not useful for this country. This country benefits more from belonging to these structures than we would get out of them. And also, as always, the inevitable dressing, the rampant anti-Americanism, that other constant argumental dressing in relation to debates of these characteristics. Read in the form of a United States Government, read in the form of treaties between the European Union and the United States..., that whole collection, retaliating it with always simplifying arguments. The truth is that we have to say that being allies of a power like the United States is a clear, important guarantee. It is a guarantee for the purposes of our defence, it is a guarantee for the purposes of our development that we belong to such important structures as the Atlantic Alliance, to which States such as the United States or Canada belong. Decisions have been talked about. Well, the decision of membership of NATO was taken by the Spanish as a whole on 12 March 1986, which was the decision of those who were part of that State. Those of us who were part of that State were responsible for that decision, and that was decided (some of us were able to vote) by the majority of the Spaniards. But we also have to say one thing: we want a more modern NATO, more strategic in the 21st century; we want an Atlantic Alliance, as many of the reflections that are being addressed today, even a new Atlantic community, beyond the framework in which the alliance is moving today. Since 1949, NATO has responded to our security needs. However, the strengthening and renewal of NATO remains absolutely essential. It is no longer enough to face the many challenges facing the West today. We need to analyse in detail and realism the economic and political map of the world, and design a strategy consistent with our interests and objectives, a true plan of action for the twenty-first century. We must also broaden our approach by defining what the Atlantic is, and within that framework we can think that a new strategy needs to be defined. And that's why we said we wanted an existing NATO, but a more modern NATO, more strategic in the 21st century, in that Atlantic framework that many reflections are already analysing. And that is of interest to the Basque Country, to continue to be part with Spain, with Europe, of the renewed structures, of relationship for peace, for defence and also for economic development. NATO also provides opportunities for our companies. It is a framework of technological, logistical and scientific relations in which we also move. In short, from the People's Group we are in favour of belonging to NATO; we are also in favour of a more modern, more strategic NATO, and, of course, we are also in favour of strengthening Spain's role in a renewed and updated Atlantic Alliance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u4	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u5	Thank you, Mr. President. President, Chief, Congressman, good morning to all of you. Due to a three weeks ago interpelation with the president, we have the impression that EH Collect has presented to us today about OTAN on the table. On TAN was born as he was born in 1949, in the cold war context, and in Europe and the world, it was the danger of a new conflict. Luckily, today, we seem to have left that time behind. By the way, Mr. Arzuga, OTAN was born in 1949. The Cold War began, but OTAN did not create itself to answer the Word of War in Warsaw, but to protect the Soviet threat as a weapon. The shadow of Stalin's moustache was indeed long in the countries of Europe, and a serious threat to peace. Warsaw Ituna 1955ean jaio zen, Stalin hil eta bi urtera, age Nikita Kruschev Kremlinen zegoela. Eta, sheath, Warsawko Ituna edo Hitzarmena, zuk esaten duzun moduan, ez zen ez ituna éta ez Warsawkoa. It was not a pact, nor a pact of Warsaw: it was an imposition by Nikita Khrushchev on the countries under the protection of the Soviet Union. A pact is discussed, negotiated, and I have many doubts that the countries that signed or ratified the Warsaw Pact will negotiate anything with Nikita Kruschev. You say NATO is militaristic. That an armed defence institution is militaristic seems to me to be nothing new! No wonder, and I think it's quite a drawer. It's like I'm telling you a pacifist is anti-violent. Well, yes. In addition, Iceland, which has no army, is also part of NATO. He may be a militarist, but without an army. Then he adds that NATO is undemocratic. I do not know whether NATO is anti-democratic; what I can tell you is that when Hungary in 1956, and twelve years later Czechoslovakia in 1968, tried to get out of the Warsaw Pact to make their way, for the Soviet tanks, first Khrushchev and after Brezhnev, took care very quickly to convince them that they were wrong, that it was much better to stay together in Russia's house. And what remains meridianally clear to me is that when, as soon as the Berlin wall fell and the Sinatra doctrine was strengthened, the former countries of the Iron Curtain chose another path. And I say Sinatra doctrine because it was the name that Gennadi Gerásimov, the spokesman of the Foreign Ministry of the former Soviet Union, coined in an interview with American television. He said: "We have today the doctrine of Frank Sinatra. He sang 'I did it my way'. Today we will let the countries of the Soviet orbit choose their way and decide the model they want to keep from here to the future." And most of all the work you've worked with all of them, is the work of Shevardnadze and Gorbachov, which I think we have to say hello and thank you. But returning to NATO, and no matter how undemocratic NATO is, in his words, these countries of the former Warsaw Pact, as soon as they could decide, left the pact and passed on to NATO! On 12 March 1999, Hungary, Poland and the Czech Republic left the pact and moved on to NATO. On 29 March 2004, Bulgaria, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia joined NATO. And on April 1, 2009, Croatia and Albania moved on to NATO. And if all these countries ran to ask NATO for protection, it was because they were panicking about that democratic Warsaw Pact and that evil so-called Warsaw Pact. They were afraid of the experience of the Kruschev tanks, of the Brezhnev tanks; they were afraid of the Kremlin tenants, and they are still afraid of the present Kremlin tenant. Mr. Arzuga, three weeks ago, the president told you clearly that his opinion that this subject of the OTAN was not in the first line of public opinion, that perhaps it was possible on March 12th, the 30th of the refendum. On the anniversary of this subject, the creation of memory. He also told you he didn't think he'd go to public discussion. Well, he's here because of your internation and the cause of today's motion. Nor does he beat the lehendakariak esandakoarekin. Baina, hala eta guztiz, guk beste eredu bat nahi dugu, EAJ-PNV betidanik Europeanista izan da, Europan sinesten du éta Europa indartu nahi du; beraz, the Basque Nationalist Party is committed to a strong Europe that has its common foreign and security policy. The 2009 Lisbon Treaty strengthened a still incomplete and incipient common foreign policy of the European Union. It created a model of its own, a model that strives to maintain peace, strengthen security and strengthen international cooperation among countries, which often avoids many conflicts. But also to develop democracy, consolidate the rule of law, and respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights. Eta horregatik guk aurkeztu dugu osoko zuzenketa bat. For all this, if you need an army, at least it's a European army too, right? That seems obvious to me. Nazioarteko securtasuna finkatu eta demokrazia garatu bakea mantentzeko, hau da gure eredua, eta horregatik aurkeztu dugu osoko zuzenketa bat. "The law of Europe demands that all institutions should always respect the will which the eucalyptus society has expressed in a free and democratic manner. "The great law of Europe demands that the European Union be strengthened as soon as possible by European politics in the common security. The object is to prevent conflicts, to maintain peace, to fix a society between nations, to develop and fix a democracy, as well as a state of right, and to respect human rights and essential liberties. However, the American law wishes to remember that the best way to solve conflicts is that conversation and negotiation continue. Maintain peace, consolidate democracy and respect for human rights. And the safest thing is that a common foreign and defence policy, strong and dynamic in Europe, would have prevented dictatorships, would have prevented massacres such as those that are currently living in Syria and other countries in the area. I would have prevented millions of refugees from coming to our doors, but I would certainly have avoided, above all, the pathetic spectacle of the European response, of the European institutions, but above all of the Member States that are rejecting the thousands of refugees who are coming to our doors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u6	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Passing the non-correction teams round,UPyD Mist. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u7	Thank you very much, President. Good morning to you all, Mr. Lehendakari... I am not going to talk about NATO or try to convince anyone about the goodness of belonging to NATO. I think this is a matter that goes beyond our competence. So that this debate, therefore, is not a waste of time, I will focus on what I think is most important. I believe that this initiative shows that EH Bildu does not understand democratic procedures, the democratic system, or democracy itself. I believe that, as you see, by presenting an initiative in relation to NATO, EH Bildu has demonstrated in this initiative what I have just said: that he does not really understand what democratic procedures are. In a simple NATO initiative. And I'm going to explain myself. First of all, Euskal Herria did not decide anything, it was not a matter of his competence. Who decided whether or not it belonged to NATO was the whole of the country, that is, Spain, and its citizens, the Spanish citizens. It was, therefore, the Spanish citizens who freely decided to belong to NATO. Therefore, Euskal Herria did not decide anything, and if someone says that Euskal Herria decided something is, in fact, how to want to ask and analyze what each of the Spanish provinces, each of the autonomous communities, each of the cities, each of the villages, or each of the neighborhoods of Spain said. And this is simply unacceptable. This is because we do not understand what the democratic system is, nor how democracy works. It was therefore Spain that freely decided to belong to NATO, and Euskal Herria therefore decided absolutely nothing. If EH Bildu says that Euskal Herria said no, we would have to analyze what each Basque province said, what each Basque city said, what each town said, and even what the neighborhood where I live said, Amara, and we would have to see exactly, in Amara, what was voted and what was decided. And not only in Amara, but in each of the streets of Amara. And all those united citizens who might have said no, according to Euskal Herria Bildu's approach, would have the capacity to leave NATO. Even because of this absurd rule that shows that it does not understand what the democratic system is and how democracies work, we could even take the approach of bringing together all the Spanish citizens who said no to NATO, in order to say that this group actually voted no to one hundred percent. Indeed, this is absurd. It was Spain that freely decided to belong to NATO. Having said that, and second, EH Bildu rejects Euskal Herria's membership of NATO because of the militaristic and anti-democratic character of this organization. This can be understood in a single way: as a provocation. You're talking about a militaristic, belligerent, anti-democratic organization. Doesn't it remind you of your position in relation to that militant, militaristic and anti-democratic organization that we have suffered firsthand and that is called ETA, and that you have not condemned? Therefore, given your relationship with ETA (that yes, organization, as I say, bellicose, militarist and anti-democratic that we have suffered most directly in Euskadi), your proposal can only be understood as pure political cynicism. You have not condemned ETA, you have not demanded its dissolution, you do not want the crimes committed by ETA pending resolution to be clarified, you have turned your back on the victims of ETA, and with their attitude, maintained for decades, the truth is that you have made it possible to remain alive, causing hundreds of deaths. ETA, Mr. Arzuaga, has murdered men, women and children, public offices, workers, retirees, police, ertzainas, members of the judiciary, teachers, housewives, people passing by, anonymous citizens... And you supported him or shut up. That was and is a militarist, bellicose and anti-democratic organization, and before that organization you say absolutely nothing. Yes, what they said for years was that you supported her, and to this day you still don't condemn her. And, therefore, this is pure political cynicism. Therefore, from this initiative, which exceeds our powers to me, I can only say and argue these two issues which I have just outlined. And someone will think and say, "But Gorka, you always tell them the same thing, you remind them of their shames, you highlight their lies, you highlight their inconsistencies, you demonstrate their political cynicism," and I'm probably wondering, "Why do you insist, Gorka, on those arguments? Why do you intend to change those who refuse to change?". And the answer is simple: not to change me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u8	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists represent the group. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u9	Thank you, President. EH Bildu raises a debate in which, as is usual, the right to decide above legality comes out to light, where democratic debate on majorities and minorities becomes a confrontation of legality. Each group is very free to bring to this House matters which it considers appropriate, but I must say, Mr Arzuaga, that we were both surprised by the question he put to the Lehendakari in plenary on 19 February and by the motion he has brought today as a result of it. To shake up that surprise, I went to the last sociometers developed by the Basque Government to see if the issue was one of the problems of concern to Basque citizens, but not. Among the twenty-three items of concern to citizens is the absence of NATO. No mention. So it has to be concluded that if Bildu wants to make a reminder of the thirtieth anniversary of the referendum on the integration of Spain into the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, it is because you do have NATO in mind. Remember that thirty years ago that national referendum was held to ratify Spain's stay in NATO and what was its result is good in the academic and social sphere, but serves little more. As always, the narrative they present is extraordinarily partial. Thirty years ago, many citizens expressed their refusal in Euskadi to remain in a military organization involved in military conflicts around the world. Euskadi was a society mobilized against militarism, which had been at the head of the objection of peaceful conscience to compulsory military service; a peaceful rejection to which the abertzale left wanted to turn under the slogan "The Mili with the Milis. " Three decades later, there is no compulsory military service, no one in the House defends that the militia should be carried out with terrorists, and NATO has changed its way of acting and is coordinated with other international bodies, to ensure the security of all, including Basque citizens. This debate is already history. It was an episode that directly affected my party, which created strong internal disputes and divisions in socialists, but it is history. And I have my doubts that it should be debated in this House. Well, I do not have one: it is not the competence of this Parliament, but this debate would have to be presented at the Congress of Deputies. Is it really believed, Mr Arzuaga, that the partial and biased vote that took place in Euskadi during that consultation, carried out, is not forgotten, at national level, fully topical, as you say in your motion? And where is it written that among the powers of this Parliament there is one that enables us to cancel our stay in NATO, not already in Euskadi, but also in Navarre and the Basque part of France? They are not able to see the absurdity of their request. The preliminary title of the Constitution reflects fundamental rights, including the principle that national sovereignty resides in the Spanish people, which means that we all share the capacity to make decisions that affect the whole. No citizen, institution or parliament of an autonomous community has the right to make decisions that affect the rights of all. The call for referendums is provided for in article 92 of the Constitution, and the Organic Law of 18 January 1980, which developed the Constitution, states in article 5.1 that "The referendum is decided by free, direct and secret universal suffrage in the field that corresponds to the consultation". The NATO referendum had a national level, not an autonomous community, and came out by 52.5%. It is clear, therefore, that Euskadi, Euskal Herria Sur or whatever they want to call it, was not the scope of the call. The subject of law of this referendum was Spanish citizenship. Therefore, in that referendum Basque citizenship was not their subject of law, as it was, for example, in the referendum on the Statute of Autonomy, which was approved by 90% of the votes cast. Let's be serious. The socialists believed that when Bildu announced that he was self-criticizing the results of the last elections and that they were going to give a social turn to his political action, away from the identity issues, they were referring to something else. However, we are already seeing that it is not, and we are sorry. We do not share the selective antimilitarism practiced in this country by the abertzale left, this feeling that led him to reject the Spanish Army and the Atlantic Alliance but that did not prevent him from throwing away the military organization at home. Because there is still in the papers the dramatic argument that Herri Batasuna's elders used to oppose the construction of the Leizaran highway between Gipuzkoa and Navarra. His argument was that by that highway the NATO tanks could enter, it is supposed to stifle the Euskadi insurrection. Look, Mr. Arzuaga, times change and societies evolve. You, however, are trapped in the past. They have not realized that the Warsaw Pact has disappeared and that NATO missions have changed and diversified. It was NATO, for example, that prevented the ethnocide that Milosevic Serbs intended to perpetrate in Kosovo with the Albanians in 1999. NATO has coordinated missions in the Indian anti-piracy area, protecting, among others, the Basque tuna vessels working there. With the abduction of Alakrana and Somali piracy, the military and military presence on Basque fishermen's ships was defended by this Parliament six years ago. Socialists warned that this was a fear and could have civil consequences, and we defended an international alliance. And so Operation Atalanta was forged, jointly between the UN, the European Union and NATO. The facts show that it was effective. NATO is preparing to curb the spread of jihadist terrorism in North Africa, which is the gateway to Europe. That was the purpose of the joint maneuvers that were carried out last autumn to which you have just referred, where came military troops from thirty countries of the alliance that bother you so much, because some were landed in the port of Bilbao to then take you to Zaragoza. As you can see, NATO also fulfils those functions, and we Socialists would like to see them further targeted at peace and interposition missions under UN command, as well as humanitarian interventions, for example in the refugee crisis. Finally, placed to look back, we can also remember at that time the full accession of Spain to the European Union, but there are also in that year other less positive ephemerides, such as the forty-one fatal victims who caused ETA with their attacks; of them, twelve and five killed only in two attacks in Madrid: seventeen fatal victims in just two attacks. Sometimes it's very timely to remember the past. The social and democratic rule of law in which Spain is established ensures that the law prevails for all. Subjection to the law equals all in rights and in the use of freedoms, limits powers and hinders abuses. As many lessons in European history teach us, those who want to proclaim themselves above the law end up behaving despotically. I used to tell you, Mr. Arzuaga, that you had surprised us with your initiative. Well, from what I have said, you will have deduced that neither I nor my parliamentary group are going to surprise you when we do not vote in favour of your motion. We will, of course, vote against it. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u10	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Passing on the answers, Mr. Arzuga, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u11	Thank you, Mr. President. There's a certain consensus that this is a matter of the past, and I'll try to make sure that it's a great deal of the day that we've brought this round. Mr. Aguire talks to us about Stalin, Stalin's moustache, Nikita Khrushev, and seems to be an expert in these matters, in matters of the past, that seems to make you feel comfortable. And you bring us a thesis. NATO is in some measure not democratic, but the treaty of Warsaw was not democratic. Well, I won't say anything against it, but I'm staying with one, and it's like OAN is not democratic. They say it's a matter of the past, but I've printed ten arguments here: one about the past, and it is to say that 30 years ago this people gave an opinion in a refendum. I have given eight arguments, which are recent, which are conjugated in the present time, and one which is to the future, when we say that we want a world without war and a people of Euscalia without an army, and that is our purpose and that we defend it. Ez omen dago interest gaurkotua gai honen inguruan, baina prentsan pixka bat begiratzen bada, "NATO puts Spain in the center of a new Cold War" (Public, September 2015), and "NATO accuses Russia of testing modern weapons instead of fighting the Islamic State" (The World, October 8, 2015); "Russia's military superiority amazes NATO generals" (RT, Russian news channel, January 4, 2016); yesterday, "War, closer to what is believed", in this RT channel. Well, they look like current concerns. They look like current threats and risks. In the interpellation I made to the Lehendakari Urkullu he told us that we have clearly positioned ourselves against war, terrorism and violence, as could be seen during the invasion of Iraq or in the recent attacks in Paris, Mali or Afghanistan. Recent attacks that really sound quite current to me and quite recent. Perhaps for you I have more moral authority than for me, but Pope Francis points out that perhaps today (now) we can talk about a third world war fought by parties, taking into account the scope and spread of the war in the world. Propagation of the war in which NATO has an absolutely outstanding role. It's not like it's a big deal of today, but this Saturday there'll be mutations in the four capitals against the Oral, and it's been decided 30 years ago to put the value in this town. That was what we wanted. We have seen all the corrections and, well, the corrections of the EAJ, with the first and the third, would be to discuss more, at least, on the WAYS, but that we can agree, but if this initiative was to confirm the position opposed to NATO, it does not appear in its text, and therefore we shall abstain from it. Quickly, by making some other mentions, Mr. Maneiro seems to understand absolutely nothing of popular will, and so goes. And it seems that we are going to give him the same attention that Basque society gives him in this regard. As for the PP, he gives us an atlantist speech, he gives us a NATO apologie, and tells us that he is engaged in the fight against terror, but also seems to be in a fight against other powers, against other sovereign states, such as Russia and China, from which obvious risks are emerging. He speaks of allies, like the United States, but also Turkey, but also Hungary, with their responsibilities in the refugee crisis. NATO is generating a continuous outburst in the Third World through police pressure, and poses an absolutely current threat. As for the PSOE, that PSOE who said to NATO "no entry" and then said "NATO yes", and then Eguiguren said that it was a flexible party to have these positions, well, it seems that they have been very surprised by this initiative. And it has surprised them so much that they have been left out of position, and to some extent left to see if the initiative passes quickly, it is not going to be that their responsibility for the Spanish State to enter into this military alliance will be verified. I'm an intsimidal, which is an insupulous bank, and this is an instamious town. But I'll say more: I'm 44 years old and we've never had a chance to be involved in a refendum and give our political opinion directly. I think that we must penetrate into a democracy, I think we need the power of determining ourselves by the right of deciding, and we must here make decisions that are important in our lives. It's important to say "NATO not." Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u12	Thank you, Mr. Azuga. Representative of the population. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u13	Thank you, President. Indeed, I wanted to use my turn to justify my position, my group's position on NATO membership. It is important to belong to NATO, it is a guarantee of security and defence, and it also unites Western democracies. It's already a democratic factor. And also within its functioning it is democratic, because the agreements are usually the result of unanimity, but, if not, of reflections and majority decisions taken by democratic governments. So the essence of NATO is a democratic essence, it is a defence essence, it is a security essence for Western democracies and, of course, for those countries and states that form it, and also for others that are affected by their ability to act. I have also said that it must be modernised, it must be renewed, it must be more strategic, it must have a much stronger political framework for Atlantic action in the coming years... There are important reflections on this issue in the countries and institutions and in NATO itself. And of course it does, of course it does have to have an attitude and an action in relation to Russia and other world powers, therefore, decided. And it will, and indeed even summits are outlined on the subject. But, Mr Arzuaga, of militarism or anti-militarism, what you say and nothing is the same. Or worse: what you say is sarcasm and rampant cynicism. I know that their militarism is certainly not compatible with the articulation of measures and structures for the defence of Western democracies. Its militarisms are others, there are three: an old one, that of the former Warsaw Pact, which fell on their heads politically, when the Berlin wall fell and collapsed; one rancio, which has more to do with the Caribbean and Bolivarian dictatorships, with commanders presidents, etc., and, of course, another dramatic militarism, from which you ideologically have not untied, which is that of the rubber-2 and the 9 millimetre Parabellum, that militarism which you do not condemn, of the "shut up, or go away, or give up, or kill you" that ETA has practiced against this society. And that falsely military expression, of course, simply terrorist, you liked it more, of course, than an international alliance to defend democratic countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u14	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Aguire, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u15	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Mr. Azuga, your motion is perfectly permitted. It's perfectly legitimate, but we think, right now, in this situation, it doesn't make any sense. At least we see it that way. I've already told you three weeks ago that the President had clearly remarked that this subject of the OTANs was not in the first row, even in the middle, or below it, or even below it. The subject is not the government's jurisdiction. The subject is not on the government agenda, it's not on the book of the Basque organizations, it's not on the social agenda, so it's not on the Basque agenda. As a matter of fact, I don't know now that EH Collectors have said that it's about three weeks ago that he wants to go back into the past, nostalgia, nostalgia, or such things as he sees the shadow of a new party, to present here three weeks ago and now. I hope you're staying with other projects that give you the illusion, because I really don't think it's too bad for me to do today's motion. We believe that the society of euscal has other privileges; To reduce or disappear unemployment, to repair social problems, to guarantee our welfare our health and educational systems, and to strengthen and deepnify peace and each other's lives. These are the prerogatives of the euscal society, the prerogatives of the Government, and the prerogatives of the Jedibet Party of Eusia. After all, the aim of political parties is to be in the service of society, and this is our purpose; so we have introduced a full correction to your motive, in which it is the wager of Europe, not of OTAN. Europe is the wager, a serious European policy in the common security to maintain peace, to establish international security, to guarantee democracy and human rights. This is our model, this is the Euascan patriots-Nacionists' example of Vascos. Eta lehen esan duet, bathe catazka konpontzeko modurik onena elkarrizketa eta negocaketa da. That is our model, and of course we do not believe in the use of violence to resolve any political conflict. It doesn't solve anything. However, if anyone wants to give blood for his country, there's Osar's company waiting for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u16	Thank you, Mr Aguire. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u17	Yes, thank you, President. Mr Arzuaga, do not run away, nor refuse the debate. If you propose an initiative, assume what exactly you are proposing, and have the courage to counter your arguments to the arguments of the rest of the groups, instead of saying, in the end, "in relation to these issues I prefer not to enter and I will retire to the seat as soon as possible". Let's see, don't waste our time on this matter! I have not explained the political position of UPyD: I have explained how democracies work, what democratic systems consist of, what the right to decide is. And I have told you and I say again that on that occasion Euskal Herria decided absolutely nothing, because it was the country as a whole, that is, Spain, that said yes to NATO, and therefore that fact cannot be divided into different autonomous communities, into different groups of citizens. That's a trap, that's a lie, that doesn't understand what democracy is about. And, in the face of this, what you have done has been to retire to your seat, instead of explaining what your arguments are. You can't fractionate, you can't say that Euskal Herria said no, just as you can't say what exactly Gipuzkoa, Bizkaia or Álava said, or what San Sebastián, Bilbao or Vitoria said, or each of the Basque neighborhoods. This doesn't make any sense. The competition was and belongs to all the Spanish citizens, Spain, and therefore, if you want, this initiative can adapt it and present it to the Congress of Deputies, but not here. Here we have no competition of any kind, and therefore it has wasted our time. It has only served for some of the groups to have told you some of these things that I myself have raised, and obviously at first UPyD, but finally all the other groups have come to remind you that here, if there has been a war organization, military and anti-democratic, it has been ETA, and it is precisely you who have accompanied ETA for years, and it is you who continue without condemning ETA, and it is you who continue without demanding the dissolution of that terrorist gang, of that militarist, bellicist and anti-democratic organization. Therefore, you have again become evident. You have made the political ridiculous in this case, because you have not had any kind of argument, you have not been able to convince anyone, and I believe that your political cynicism on these issues has again become evident. Finally, at least this debate has served to have the different groups re-emphasize him, to have reminded him of his past and to have reminded him of his immense political cynicism and his absolute shame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u18	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Sánchez, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u19	Thank you, President. Mr Arzuaga, I have already told you that your motion for my group does not make any sense, that this debate is already history. You say that now there have been movements... You have tried to celebrate the 30th anniversary of the referendum with the presentation of this initiative in this Parliament, and you have presented it exactly the same at the three general meetings and in the municipalities of the Basque Country, in order to try to bring back a debate that is already history, which no one of the citizens in the Basque Country is interested in right now, because they have a much more important concern than that. Socialists can offer an explanation as to why NATO has served and how it has contributed and should continue to contribute to international cooperation to ensure its security. The abertzale left cannot yet offer an explanation of what served the Basques' proposal on their military bet. He said that one of the reasons why NATO did not exist is the enormous expense that that could entail. In our autonomous community, a lot of money was spent to protect those threatened by ETA, and it didn't seem bad to you! We did not hear that that was an expense that could have been saved in this autonomous community! Many companies decided not to invest here, in our autonomous community, because of the risk that existed, and you said absolutely nothing! Nothing happened there. Absurd. On the other hand, we of course will maintain our position. We are going to vote against the motion tabled by you, and we are going to vote against the other amendments tabled as well. Mr Aguirre has pointed out that you agree with your amendment... that you want to discuss another model. I believe that today's initiative, today's motion, does not begin to discuss a new model, which seems to me to be an absurd amendment. We were here in another different debate, referring to NATO. We will therefore vote against it, because it does not make any sense right now. And that's the position we're going to maintain. I think it is absolutely clear, and I am not going to dedicate any more words. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u20	Thank you, Mrs Sánchez. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of the law-making by the Socialists of Euscal, about the strategic plan of the euscal public school. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Celaá, it's your word to introduce and take over the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u21	Good morning, everyone. Mr. President, señorías, señora presidenita. Ladies and gentlemen, the undertakings which may be pushed on by a system of education, lose if a great part of its efficiency is performed in an isolated or unrelated manner, unless they are within a general plan which will give them a common view, and direct them to certain definite and evaluating purposes. That's why we need a plan that will have a common strategic purpose to determine a purpose and to submit all administration services to it. It's no use for propositions that don't connect together, they're no good. The ground needs to be cleaned, arranged, and arranged, and set up that strategic goal, so that the schools know where they're going. It is therefore necessary to apply a common strategic purpose to motivate, this universal purpose of the strategic art of education, to improve the daily work, to make it accessible. Ladies and gentlemen, educational management is very complex; it must face multiple aspects simultaneously: improving educational outcomes, the attention of all pupils, including those of foreign origin, school harassment, inclusiveness and equality plans, teaching teams, the better use of digital technologies, the move from a bilingual to another trilingual education system with English as a vehicle language, and others. The effectiveness of the treatment of all these aspects improves substantially if, instead of being treated in isolation and inextricably, they are incorporated into a strategic plan that clearly marks the way forward and allows for a more globalized, more coordinated procedure, better understood by the community as a whole. The whole Basque education system is the subject of our concern, of our care, but the public school, because of its specific characteristics, must be even more so. And this, which is not private (this statement is not private) of our parliamentary group, seems that today it is not enough for the Government, which has not wanted to subscribe to this proposal. But if we read – check, ladies and gentlemen – carefully the answer given by the counsellor herself to our questions in relation, for example, to the imbalance between the public and the concerted network regarding (an example) the participation of students in trilingual experiences, we find the following. Textual words, he says: "In the first place, it is necessary to emphasize that the public and concerted network are based on differentiated realities". And he goes on to say: "It can be said that the starting situation of the different centres that make up the Basque educational network in this area is therefore different." Although, fortunately, he then concludes that his department is working to facilitate the path and provide the necessary tools for the entire Basque education system, with special emphasis on the public network, to move progressively towards multilingualism. Let us look, ladies and gentlemen, at the special emphasis on the public network that the Government wants to put on it. And I say I want to because so far, and judging by the results in this linguistic matter, it has not succeeded: 11,000 students in the public are studying a subject with English as a vehicle language, compared to 59,000 in the concerted network. But we start from that particular emphasis on the public network. Why special emphasis on the public network? Why? The answer is simple, given by the counselor herself: for her differentiated realities and her starting situation. That is why special emphasis must be placed on the public network. For that, ladies and gentlemen, is the strategic plan, precisely for that, to allow our public school to raise its expectations and be competitive, not from the economic perspective, not from the knowledge perspective. As, on the other hand, public health is. Because the public school is also the core of the Basque education system. It is the instrument not available to this administration, all public administrations, to give effect to the right to education of all students in any place and under any circumstances. And for another reason: because the Department of Education of the Basque Government, being responsible for all Basque education, is also the holder of the public school, is the direct manager of the centres of public ownership, of the organization of their centres, of the management of the faculty. That is why you must respond directly to the results obtained and improve, boost, implement improvement plans. And that is why the public school, ladies and gentlemen, is undoubtedly the backbone of the education system. With the Basque Public School Act, which was the fruit of a great country agreement twenty-three years ago, our school became aware of itself and began to grow in prestige and strength. We have succeeded in consolidating, with the efforts of all, a plural, bilingual, democratic public school, at the service of Basque society, rooted socially and culturally in its entanglement, participatory, compensating for inequalities and integrating diversity. A school with pedagogical, organizational and management autonomy, in which families and other educational agents have a voice and vote for their democratic administration. The public school, ladies and gentlemen, has been able to legitimately gain the confidence of Basque society in its quality. It has made the public school, with its work on a scale, the most historical contribution to the development and extension of the Basque language. Today it is strong in innovation, and must become increasingly aware of the need to move from bilingualism to trilingualism, in order to compete for added value in a globalized world. Our public school, therefore, has enormous strengths and excellent professionals. They are their basis for facing the special circumstances that currently significantly condition the progress towards excellence of some public centers, sometimes keeping them in unequal conditions with the rest, and forcing them to compete sometimes with a hand tied behind their backs. The student of foreign origin, ladies and gentlemen, is welcome among us, but there is no doubt that it obliges the public school to make additional efforts for its treatment. We have a diverse society; we know that one of the essential functions of education is to teach our young people to live together, regardless of their origin, income and colour. That is why this learning, which is good, we want it both for public centres and for concerted centres, because in the treatment of this diversity we play the country's cohesion. We know that we need additional human and material resources for this treatment, so the treatment of this diversity must be a public-concerted shared task, respecting the exercise of the freedom of center, also that of families of foreign origin, and excluding any explicit or covert selective practice by certain educational institutions. All the precepts of the law must be strictly complied with, and new proposals already suggested by families in public education must be incorporated, which can be effective in addressing this situation. The incorporation of social and educational agents into school boards is a task that we can consider pending; the creation of a single territorial office is a suggestion that we need to study. Another element affecting the quality of the centres is the stability of the staff. During the previous legislature we managed to reduce ten points of instability, with a public offer of 3,600 places. This index has risen again, objective circumstances have raised it, and exceeds 30% of our staff. A third element relates to the consolidation of the evaluation culture, the handling of data rigour, a system that is transparent, that is reliable. We continue with the ESO's fourth and second primary education evaluation, but the challenge is to put those results in touch with the center improvement plan, and articulate tangible improvement goals that allow us to know where we're going, where we're coming from, where we're going. It is very important to have tangible objectives of improvement, and, in addition to general objectives, specific objectives to overcome the difficulties of pupils and specific groups. The leadership of the management teams, ladies and gentlemen, their stability, their commitment to the centre plan and their training, is a crucial issue, as is the continuing training of professionals, a matter in which the management of the crisis has left a very deep mark in this legislature. I would also like to refer to an aspect that I understand is negatively affected by the contemporary march of public school. I am referring to the inequality of opportunities in widespread access to the foreign language. The public school, ladies and gentlemen, and I conclude, is the instrument at the disposal of the Education Administration to guarantee and give effect to the universal right to quality education, in all places and under all circumstances. And it is this unique and specific nature that gives it its central character. That's why it's the vertebrate axis of the system. We propose that the development of the public school be articulated, structured around strategic plans, a strategic plan that allows us to order the objectives, coordinate the different actions, join efforts, and allow close follow-up with rigorous evaluation of the results. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, we are presenting this proposal today, this non-legislative proposal to draw up a strategic plan before the end of the session, of course, a strategic plan of the public school to improve its expectations, to strengthen it, to meet its special circumstances, precisely because the public school has to meet (met) the country's greatest educational needs everywhere and in all circumstances. I thank all those who have worked to reach an agreement, particularly the Bildu group, which together with UPyD and also the People's Party have worked to reach an agreement today. In some cases it has not been entirely possible, but surely we have more positions that bind us than those that separate us. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u22	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Passing the crews who are running the corrections, Mr. Oyalans is the representative of the Basque Potula Group.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u23	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. My group also believes that improving quality in our education system, safeguarding equity and seeking excellence are the most important challenges of the Basque school and our education system. We have lived, in my opinion, in my group's opinion, years of excessive complacency. The successive departments of Education of the Basque Government were striving to present comparisons of our educational system, in relation to the results, well, with autonomous communities that historically went far behind ours in achieving results, in achieving objectives, and indeed in those comparisons we always stood still. We were always compared with European averages, when the Basque Country is one of the richest regions in the European Union. We did not compare ourselves with the regions of our per capita income, of similar per capita income, or with those regions that spend like us as a student, but we have been comparing ourselves to the averages, and in general we have always been well standing. But our community I think has an enormous journey to improve in relation to the challenges that the school has today. We have a peculiarity that do not have other Spanish communities: our educational system maintains a balance between networks. Half or almost half of Basque families enroll their daughters and children in concerted centres. In no other community does this happen, in no other Spanish community does concerted teaching have the weight it has in the Basque Autonomous Community. That is why we share with the proposer, with the proposer group, the concern for the public school. We share the need to make available to you tools to improve in many respects, in many areas, but it seems to us a mistake to confine this plan to public school, when we are talking about that half of our education system refers to the concerted network. We understand that in 2016 we cannot continue to separate Basque families, students and students through networks. There is only one education system, and the obligation of the Department of Education is to meet the needs as a whole, the needs of our school as a whole. That is why we believe it is a mistake to make a narrow approach to public school. Indeed, we are concerned that there may be an increasing gap in results between public and concerted centres. We believe, indeed, that we need to talk about inclusion, about attention to diversity; that we need to do so in addition to seeking that educational institutions improve their quality, safeguarding equity, as I said before, but trying to seek the improvement of results at the end of each of the educational stages, seeking excellence. Our education system provides very important data at intermediate levels, and we surely have a lower percentage than in other low-level student communities, but we are also very deficient in excellent students. There are other communities... there are six, seven communities that already outperform us in results, when they are spending much less on students than we are. Student investment is important, but it's not everything. Surely we need some other kind of instrument. Not only do we have to talk about investment per student, because it is clear that that is no longer enough, but we have to address other kinds of future challenges that are not only managed with funding. We are talking about problems that we have been discussing in recent weeks: attention to immigrant students, concentration of immigrant students in certain centres. The weight that the public school is bearing on this issue is very important, but it is not possible to address the problem of attention to immigration and the inclusion and integration of immigrant students without taking care of the student. If we want the concerted action to be committed to the integration of immigrant pupils, we must work together and hand in hand with the concerted education. Indeed, we need to assess the need to avoid the proliferation of ghetto centres in public schools, but we need to engage, and proactively, in concerted education. If we want all centres to make an effort in the integration of immigrant students we have to commit them, we have to help them, and we also have to put in instruments, instruments of support, reinforcement, teachers of support, extraordinary funding to those centres that commit to that immigrant student. But, in fact, this cannot be restricted to public school. We need a general commitment from our educational system. It also has to do, as Mrs Celaá said, with the attention to new technologies, with the school 3.0, with the clear need to bet on English, on trilingualism... Our education system, and the public school in particular, cannot face the future if we do not really set in motion, if there is no political will to deal clearly with a clear English bet, a trilingual model that approaches, that narrows that gap that in results – and we will talk about that in the next point – we are getting in terms of foreign languages. It cannot be that our community is staying in line in knowledge of English; that we are in line, just ahead of Ceuta and Melilla, in the second foreign language. We need a clear bet on languages, on English. We need this government clearly to bet decisively on trilingualism. If not, who is staying behind – and the data is on top of the table –..., who is staying behind is the public school. The school concluded in the Basque Country for years has been putting the batteries in relation to the trilingual models, in relation to the English bet. We need to push that, but we need public school not to stay behind. We need to motivate teachers as well. It's true we have to talk. Yesterday the counselor was participating... these days she's making approaches to improving the education system. He was talking about the need to strengthen the management function... We need to motivate the teachers. Motivating teachers, because they are part – we have always said this – are the backbone of our educational system. We need teachers to really feel that they have the encouragement of the government, of the department, with clear tools in carrying out center projects, educational projects in each of the centers. We need, in short, to improve the opportunities and the capacity for progress of young Basques in each of the centres. But we are going to abstain in that compromise amendment that the Socialist Party has signed with EH Bildu, because we do not believe that it is time to divide our educational system between public and concerted centres. We believe that we need to address plans that can put instruments on the table at the service of all, not just part of our educational system. It seems to us that it is a mistake to speak only of the public and to marginalise the public at the moment, and that is why we will abstain, although we can indeed share many of the issues that arise, even in making concrete proposals regarding enrolment in centres, etc. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u24	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Arrido, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u25	Good morning, everyone. In order to arrive at our proposal for the discussion today, it is inevitable that, from my point of view, at least, we should make a small review about the present situation, and talk about the situation in which the educational system lives, especially in the case of della Rebbia. In the proposition, he insists on the need of a plan, and I think it is necessary to know what he ought to do in advance to make a little occasion. From my point of view, you have to look different in order to see what the real drama is. I'll only mention a few. The first is, what we've told you more than once, the budgets of education. It's not the same whether it's the resources or not. With more money, it's not enough to do things right or wrong, but without resources, without funds, I'm sure there'll be more difficulty. And in the past few years, the budgets took a significant backward step, there's been restrictions. And we are at this moment far from being back from the average per cent that is devoted to education, from the level of Europe; If they're around 5% in Europe, we're around 3.6, considering we were in 2009 at 4.3. This anticipation has its consequences, and has had them in our education system, and since we are speaking of the public education system today, as we have said several times, these restrictions have been attended with injurious consequences, while the number of students has gone up, but not the number of teachers. Besides, the Françoise has been mentioned among the professors and has been said here the temporary period is very high, it's big, it's 31%. And instability also concerns the development of projects, the educational quality, the motivation, the illusion, the participation, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. Public work offers are getting ridiculous, they don't have to answer them, and the Board of Education has never set up other tools so far that they can get or regulate that stability in a different way. And the state of the boarders is doubtless in need of improvement. We must also consider that the age of one of the teachers has obviously increased, and that, in public education and retirement, age has delayed itself, and this also introduces its difficulties. In our schools and in our schools it is necessary to take measures from the Board of Education, which otherwise young teachers, instead of being motivated in a stable form, leave them incapable of competence in the education system and in public schools at the present day. And, of course, the reductions in the conditions of work affect the reductions made in the substitutions, solitudes, when said that the professors must be motivated, as well as other measures that can be taken. However, on the basis of today's proposal from the Social Party, I believe, there is a complaint that the Platforms on the side of the Gastian Education have been long since made and intolerable. The students derived from foreign schools in the past few years have crowded into certain public schools, and they are creating different schools. This state of things does not only occur at Gaste, but it is a serious, serious situation. The inclution of the people who come from abroad is not only the care of the school, no doubt, that the whole community must participate in it because we are in the presence of a deep and complex subject, but that is, without doubt, the care of school and school. What's going on in public education today? Well, the axis of the education system that should be inevitable doesn't get the necessary support from fun, and that it's a system that's weakening. We have often heard here that in your education system of education the middle is public, and that the other half is under covenant; but in the case of the immigrants, this is not reality, and that is, in the case of the immigrants, that is to say, in the case of the ISEC, that is to say, in the case of those who are low-born and Culturalli, it is not the case of those who want it, or even those who need it. In this case it is not half and half, these are principally and in a great measure in public instruction. If we consider the ISEC indexes, even in the last years, the difference between the networks has increased. The individualities are lower in the public web, and the difference is increased by a gradual increase in proportion to the compact, to the private, instead of the reverse. It's been a long time since the state has increased disbalanced for years, as I have said, and there's been a manificate name from all public schools together, together with the Gasteian parents of all public schools, and almost all the operating and educational community has protected it. The facts show us crude reality, and we have mentioned it more than once. Thus, according to the accounts of the Basque School Council, at the year 2012-2013 study, the license of foreign students has been twice the number of private schools than in private schools: if it was 9,9% of the public schools, in private four,8; which has increased in recent years, it is still more remarkable. During the yearly training of 2012-2013, 16,3 foreign students on the public network, in private, there was 6%.1% of the compact. That's what we're talking about. Other facts from the Board of Education are still more serious. We mentioned them the other day on the committee: There are 60 schools in their different classes who get more than 50%, and that's how we could go to a diagnosis at school. There's no doubt that there's a lot of contempt. The distinction between students is greater every day. Between data and children and prime education, 95% of the population of foreign schools is public schools and only 5% of the contract. There are also a few of the schools under the covenant, which receive strangers and special wants, or low ISEC, but in general the reality is this: 95% - 5% He is forming two classes of schools: one of the poorest, and the other of the higher social and cultural rank, those who are called "one." And that's very dangerous, very dangerous, because, after all, those who are called "rots" escape from certain schools, and our social panic is shaken. The plurality is a value, but if it goes well. You do a terrible job in some schools, but today's reality is something else. There's no chance of some schools knowing, understanding, caring, playing, living together, and having great dangers for an inclusive and integrated society. If the equality of choice is not guaranteed at school, if the original differences do not become the choice, what is the future of this society? Well, it's good, no. I hear more than once the passionate defenders of the right of choosing a school-house in this legislature, but some of them cannot choose it. For some people, that right doesn't exist, it's a lie. Let us examine what is the state, and it is plain there is no right to choose. From our point of view, the sizes that I've been given to you have failed. Today we are worse than four years ago or five years ago in public schools, so it seems to us that we have to take so many measures.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u26	Finishing up...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u27	I'm going to finish. Hence we have agreed that on the ion-path in the ionbith shift I shall have occasion to speak more of it, unless, on the other hand, these families, and upon reality, what they propose is received.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. Misto-UPyD. Mr. Maneiro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u29	Thank you, President. The Basque Socialists presented us with an initiative with which they proposed that we urge the Basque Government to submit a strategic plan within two months for the achievement of five objectives which they consider essential: on the one hand, to enable the improvement of public schools, which school students with greater difficulties; to reduce the concentration rates of foreign students in public schools; to improve the stability of teaching teams and their management and to reduce the rates of interinity; to pay particular attention to the development and improvement of the diagnostic assessment in primary and secondary education, and to generalize trilingualism. This original initiative has suffered some variation, but in general its approaches and proposals are incorporated into the transactional that it has finally signed with EH Bildu and that we generally say we can also share, beyond that we are going to maintain our entire amendment. A complete amendment which he proposes is to urge the Department of Education of the Basque Government to draw up and present before the end of the session, before the Education Commission, a set of political and budgetary measures aimed at what we consider to be four absolutely essential subjects. They initially talk about the presentation of a strategic plan. What we said and asked of the Government is the development or implementation of a set of concrete, political and budgetary measures, which could also be presented to the relevant committee. What are the objectives that we set out in this amendment? The first objective is to strengthen the Basque public school to ensure that results are improved in educational establishments. In our view, in fact, we believe that public schools should be the basis of the Basque education system. The second objective is to introduce measures to prevent high concentrations of foreign students in public schools. The most recent statistics show that sixty centres in Euskadi have classrooms with more than 50% of foreign pupils. In Vitoria, for example, 19 schools (only one concerted school) have a percentage of more than 30%, and there are specific cases where the figure grows to over 80%. While the public network is receiving in a majority the most disadvantaged population, and particularly the population of foreign origin, the concerted network is becoming a kind of refuge for many middle- and upper-middle-class indigenous families. Interculturality is enormously positive, we can share it, but watchfulness is enormously negative. All this harms everyone, but it particularly harms immigrant students. In recent times there has been a deterioration in public schools, and school is being promoted at two speeds. "The separation of students according to the colour of their skin, ethnic origin, social class or religion seems to us to be a harmful basis for trying to achieve a more just and cohesive society, where diversity is an element of wealth and not of exclusion." This concludes the manifesto made public a few weeks ago in a civic center of Vitoria, supported by the AMPA of all the centers of Vitoria, all the unions and other educational and social organizations. This manifesto cried out against the guetization of public centres. I think these are very interesting reflections that we should all bear in mind. The third objective that we are putting forward with this amendment. These objectives, the truth is that most of them are incorporated in one way or another in that transactional amendment that you have signed, but, in any case, the third objective that we pointed out is to improve the stability of the teaching teams and their directions and to reduce the interinity of the faculty. The unions have recently reported that there has been an increase in enrolment without increasing the number of staff, thus increasing the workload of the teacher, and this obviously has a negative impact on education and education. Trade unions have reported that the Basque education system has a deficit of 1,800 teachers, and that the working conditions of these workers have deteriorated substantially in recent years. Trade unions were demanding, demanding the Government to change its educational policies, increased investment in education and staffing, as well as the recovery of purchasing power lost by workers, among other measures. We believe that these approaches, these ideas, these demands are just measures that we can share. Since 2010, teachers' purchasing power has fallen by more than 13%, which amounts to between 24,000 and 40,000 euros, depending on the body. The Basque Government invests only 3.6% of GDP in education, compared to 5% in the European Union and 4.3% in Euskadi seven years ago. Of the more than 23,000 teachers operating in the sector, about 7,000 have temporary contracts, and this also has a negative impact on education and education. It is therefore clear that cuts, temporality and precariousness have a direct, negative impact on the quality of education, and it is therefore appropriate to correct all these unjustly taken measures in recent times, many of them as a result of or with the excuse of the economic crisis that we have suffered. Sometimes replacements are not covered, or they are covered late, leading to the loss of hours of study and to an increase in the workload of the other teachers in the centre. In addition, the average age of teaching staff continues to increase. Fourth objective, which we include in this comprehensive amendment which we maintain, is to generalise trilingualism by adopting the necessary rules and economic support for this. The latter, of course, guaranteeing in any case something that has not been guaranteed to date, such as freedom of language choice in the mother tongue. We will discuss this issue further in the following point. In any case, in order to achieve all these objectives, the objectives set out in our amendment, the objectives set out in the compromise amendment, what is needed is political will and budget. And today we can say and conclude, in the light of the facts, that this Government, this particular councillor, does not have the political will, nor does it allocate the sufficient budget to carry out these measures and to face the great challenges that education, and in particular Basque public education, has to face today. I hope that concrete proposals will emerge from this whole debate, something can be approved, and from there, of course, the Department of Education is urged to take a number of measures which we consider absolutely essential. That's all, and thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u30	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u31	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone. This illegal suggestion to a man who doesn't know the reality of Basque Education is a lack of work for this. [[sic]] it would be shocking. We believe that this person would have a poor understanding of reality. We've built a public Basque school since the 80-81 years, since we've had education competition, we've all built it through different plans. New education is the plan of 2020 Education, Language Politics, and Cultural Division, in order to improve our educational system. He wants to collect the strategic lines of education and formation set up for 2020 years in the European grade of the planet with the roots of the euscal education system, in order to achieve a steady and active society by the strongest steps to the excellence of the system. The pillars on which the Heziberri 2020 plan is based are two. The first of these is the long and fruitful journey carried out by our educational system to this day. This tour has numerous and successful educational experiences that have contributed to the construction of a pedagogical culture shared by the entire educational community. And the second of the pillars is the participation of the different actors. Education must be the responsibility of all, and it therefore also needs the commitment of all to ensure its improvement, viability and permanence over time. The Heziberri 2020 Plan consists of these three projects: the first of them the framework of the educational pedagogical model, the second of them the curricular decrees of the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and the third, taking steps towards a Basque law of education. Once the educational framework had been established, the Basque Government had drawn up curricula, and before yesterday, all of us had been present, the improvement plan had been presented in committee. An improvement plan that this Parliament requested from the government in November 2014. A plan that, in our view, responds to all the development that has to have the framework of the educational pedagogical model. This presentation of the Government's improvement plan, which took place two days ago, also coinciding with this non-legislative proposal, we believe it will cover all the needs described, and to which, once we can analyse it in time (because we were already told by the advisor that today would hang on the web), we will be able to present the improvements that each of the groups believe to be questionable or even debatable. Heziberri is an elaborate and improved framework with the agents, which captures the work that we have done in common during all these years and proposes a step forward towards the excellence of the system. The improvement plan presented to us by the department in committee has all the indicators of objectives that allow us to assess the path of our educational system, open to improvement, as this department has always been, but we ask the groups of this House not to propose another plan, in this case a strategic plan only for the Basque public school, without first knowing in depth the one presented to us two days ago by the councilwoman herself. An improvement plan presented by the department with which the government has complied with the agreement adopted by the Basque Parliament in November 2014. As the Councillor herself and the Deputy Councillor herself commented, with a little delay, indeed, but already brought to this Parliament. And an improvement plan with which the department has also complied with the fifth additional provision of the decree regulating the basic education curriculum. However, and by referring to what the Socialist Party is asking for and the compromise amendment to which they have come, it emphasizes many aspects that are exclusively or primarily directed at public centres. For example, the third objective of line 3 is aimed at public institutions: "Provide initial and ongoing training so that the management teams of public educational institutions can lead the continuous improvement". Or the sixth objective of the fifth line says: "Establish the professional career of teaching staff, taking as a reference the map of teaching competencies". Or a whole exclusive strategic line of public centers, as is the sixth line, in which it speaks of deepening the autonomy of public centers, so important to lead the centers towards excellence, that excellence that we all seek. The second paragraph of the non-law proposal called for an attempt to include the problem of the concentration of foreign students in public schools, and we could add that within public schools, therefore, in some centres more intensely than in others. We found it very interesting to reflect on the need to address this issue from various areas, not only in the educational sphere, but also with other government departments and institutions such as municipalities or the parliaments themselves, addressing the fact of immigration in each and every aspect, such as the urban aspects, which in the end result directly in such a high number of immigrant students in certain centres. The department in that appearance gave us an account of each and every one of the actions it has carried out to work for an inclusive schooling and intervention of all the students of Euskadi: the adaptation of the school map in the case of Vitoria-Gasteiz and Lasarte-Oria; the obligation to make public, in the application of pre-school, the use of the two points granted by the OMR or, where appropriate, the school council; launched in the course of 2014-2015 the Hamaika Esku programme to prioritise the project of fifty-three public centres with students of disadvantaged, vulnerable and most difficult environment; in the rules of admission, the department has warned about the consequences of fraudulent use of the registration certificate; 10% of over-treatment is kept in the registration of this next course 16-17 for the needs of the students of late enrolment, and the school commissions themselves work in a coordinated way since the end of last year with the Directorate of Centres to evaluate the three balanced school commissions of all criteria. We are therefore talking about new measures, measures that we had not seen that other Governments had launched and that had been established for the first time. They are a reality, because the counselor has already commented on them and because they are on the move. Therefore, let us allow time for such measures to have the appropriate effects for inclusive schooling of students. With regard to measures to improve the stability of the teaching teams and their management, reducing the high degree of interinity, this Government has continued policies to promote the stability of the management teams, maintained each and every one of the measures, both formative and other, and in the last call ninety more stable management projects were obtained. He also spoke of the non-legislative proposal for the evaluation and research plan. The evaluation is already planned in the plan to improve the Basque education system. Let us hope that it will satisfy the demand; otherwise, we will have time to address it again. And finally they also talked about the calendar of comprehensive and progressive generalization of trilingualism. The progressive generalization schedule is in the improvement plan presented last Tuesday. It began in the course 14-15, at the end of the experiment of the MET, and we understand that it will conclude in the year 2020, like the rest of the lines of the plan presented the other day, year in which all the centers will have a multilingual linguistic project adapted, that is, to each of their sociolinguistic situations. As we have discussed in our amendment, we must give importance to measures for the permanent training of teachers and families, within a framework of strengthening bilingualism and moving towards multilingual education, in order to achieve the generalization of the first foreign language as a vehicle language. And in order to give an answer to the EH Collector, he asks his first point, his full correction, to increase the budget to develop his own education system. What are we doing, Mrs. Arrido? We're making shape to our own system, we need plans, plans to plan, and then, years later, we're going to have to develop these projects in budgets, I think, this, this government, and all governments do. So first, in the year 2013, this government decided to plan the New Hezie 2020 together with all the educationmakers. The first project of this plan presented us in 2014. Last December, the Red Muncher accepted the proclamations of Child and Base Education. On the 8th of March, the model and decree has presented us with a plan of improvement, based on equity, to advance to excellence. So we'll have to assess this plan for years on the budgets we're gonna need. And in conclusion, the autonomy of public schools, and the continuous evaluation of the intermediation in the process of education, is the end of this government, by seeking the excellence which our system deserves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Corles. Passing over to the answering shift, representative of Basque Socialists. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, if you have a folded role in this way, and you want to move it to its natural position, sometimes what we do is fold it from the other, and then we can straighten it out. It will turn out, ladies and gentlemen, that the improvement plan, the request for the plan to improve the school results of the entire education system, you did it! And I have to tell you that this House has agreed to ask the government on a socialist proposal to improve school results (of all school results). And he remembered it and asked for it. And two and a half years later, as has been acknowledged, the Counsellor yesterday presented us with a plan to improve school outcomes that is susceptible, that has to be improved, that plan, in order to be an improvement plan. But, let us see, along this line, the line you have taken here in your respective interventions, all measures of positive discrimination in relation to women, in relation to people with special educational needs, in relation to anything, would be absurd, would be useless. And I must remind you that public administrations – and this is not only a matter that is in full force, but also in the Constitution – must remove the obstacles that prevent individuals and groups from advancing on an equal footing, on an equal footing. If not, ladies and gentlemen, and Mrs Corrales, what other sense would it have, what other sense could it have for the councillor herself to answer, to answer me in a written question that special emphasis should be placed on public school? Why? Because it's part of a differentiated reality with the concerted one. Why? Because the starting situation is different. Hey, a plate is a plate, and a glass is a glass. I mean, gentlemen, here we have to put special emphasis on the public network. Why? Why? For without the public network, which, as you well know, makes up 50% or more of the Basque education system, without the public network, without its improvement, without its raising of expectations, we cannot achieve excellence. It would be impossible. Now, what's going on with this? "Oh, what a scandal! Are we just gonna talk about the public network?". But listen, we've already talked about the whole education system! If we have intended...! And just when he's going to play the gong at the end of the legislature is when they give us the results, when they start, when they start some headings, empty drawers for results. Right then, right then... But, hey, that was it. But what do we find now? So what the counselor says: we find different circumstances in the public school that make us stress that the public network needs a strategic plan. That's underestimating and that's dividing? Not at all, not at all. But if you have a family, and it turns out that in a family one of the children has special circumstances, you will turn into special circumstances. For what? To elevate it, to allow its prestige to be so great that indeed all the way, all the way that the Basque educational system has to do as a whole, is towards excellence and on an equal footing. That's the goal. That's the target, not the other one. Not another one! Please don't start telling me these things, because each of your speeches (each, ladies and gentlemen, of your speeches) has come to the conclusion that the strategic plan was necessary. That the strategic plan was absolutely necessary. Look, you say, "We already have the Heziberri, and it's that you haven't seen it, you haven't seen everything it puts in the Heziberri." Look, it's gonna be our fault we haven't seen everything he puts in the Heziberri! What he puts in the Heziberri not: what he puts in the plan to improve the school results, which by the way you did not deliver it. You didn't deliver it. Look, Heziberri has misaligned us with the rest of the European and Spanish education systems. He misaligned us. There is no education system today that provides 14 skills or 13 skills to the education system. Therefore, we do not have any references, we do not know whether we are moving forward or backwards. So, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that with all your speeches what you have come to do is to confirm, to confirm that a strategic plan is needed for public education, that it does not divide, that it does not separate, that it is incardinated with the rest of the improvement of school results, but the special circumstances that public education currently has deserve special attention. And for that, just for that and nothing more than that, and not only, is the strategic plan of public education. That's all, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u34	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. The Basque Popular must not speak a word... From EH Collect, Mrs. Gardon. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u35	Thank you. I shall begin also to mention that public education is a special care of the Board of Education, and therefore what is the need of public instruction at this moment? That's what we're talking about today. That doesn't mean we don't have to talk about the educational system. We often talk, but today we talk about public education and education. Why? Because he needs a tremendous push at this moment, because he has to protect himself and because he has to take steps to guarantee his education of quality, and that's what we're talking about right now. And, Mrs. Corries, this time that we're talking about public schools, like a tool to face all the situations and all the weaknesses that are putting up the novel plan... I don't know, I'm not going to put a pressure on him, but it's funny at least, I'd say. In a way, I'll say it again... I know you don't like it, but if the New York plan is here, it's like a tool for setting LOMCE. And you'll tell me that it's done with the education team unit, but it's not true, it's a plan that doesn't agree. And then you mentioned the improvement plan that was presented the other day at the Board of Education. I'll say what I said there: We, at least, left this commission as we entered, without any accuracy. Maybe because he was looking at the press, and not really giving them all the information on the committee. There wasn't a single measure of what we're talking about here today. He's on a different level. And I don't know what's going to be done so far, and what improvements will come, but we didn't get it the other day at the committee. I've mentioned the issues: The budgets are essential to public instruction and the whole education system, and we have to get out of this, because it's not today. If we say that 222 million less than in 2009, education nowadays will have its consequences throughout the system. We're talking today about public education, but the starting point is that budgets aren't enough for this team. And we've talked about it, and there's no contradiction in everything we've said. You have also mentioned eleven Hands, and I think they answered very clearly in the discovery of the Platforms and the College of Denis: Eleven hands, if it's a fact, it's not a preventative. He says that we ought to begin to study each school, to make a diagnosis, and then to see what measures we ought to take in every place to upset the present state in a great degree. And this requires various measures, various measures, and not only what the lady's chief physician had said on the board. Well, they should have been done, that is to say, 10% of the rooms and all the schools to have room for students who are late to keep their license plates at the time of school, yes, they should have been done. Still good. And well, too, the class club works in a homogeneous way with the same criteria. But that's what I thought, too, that it had to be done and that it was already done. But they are not enough to take other measures, and therefore we think that there are other measures here, in the middle way we plan, and even in language; for we certainly do not agree with what we ought to do with languages; but we agree in one thing, and that all the students must have an equality of choice, to begin with, that they learn to answer and support the two languages which are in this country, and that a third language or the ways of eloquence must be made equally different from that of choice. Then the difference will be how we understand it, but I will not enlarge it, for this is the next point. I'll finish by saying that if the strategic plan was admitted to us today and accepted for public school, it would have to be a kind of advance to promote inclusible education and to promote cohesion of society. That it is necessary for this purpose to strengthen the quality of the whole education and of the public education.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Arrido. My missile shouldn't say a word. Eubertarians represent the team. Mrs. Corles, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u37	Thank you again, Mr. President. I believe that the main idea with which we should all, or should all, remain, is that the difficulties of such an important reality in education cannot be solved by excluding one part of that educational system. What the groups that have signed the compromise amendment are seeking today is to resolve some difficulties that exist in the Basque public school, leaving aside the concerted network. It seems a lie, Mrs Celaá, that you have been a counselor, because thus solving a difficulty or difficulties that require the involvement, the contributions of all the networks, therefore, does not seem to us to be the most optimal, having the experience you have. Of course it is difficult, of course it is difficult to find solutions, but to work on this matter really, necessarily, it is necessary to involve both networks. Because this government wants to improve the Basque education system, but leaving no one behind. One part of the system cannot be solved by leaving aside – I repeat – the other. The Socialist Party in 2014 asked us for an improvement plan towards excellence, and now, instead, today, it asks us for a strategic plan only for the Basque public school. What has changed since then, Mrs. Celaá? Or what has changed since you presented or did this one that I would call the skeleton of an improvement plan of results of the Basque educational system that, although dated September 2009, did not let it know or did not release its content until 2011-2012, at the insistence of this parliamentary group, when we were in the opposition? A plan to improve the results of the Basque educational system made to run everything; a plan that is nothing but an assembly. And did you tell the Counsellor the other day that there are no concrete objectives, that there are no concrete measures? What was in this improvement plan? A plan of nineteen leaves. What was it, Counselor? Have things changed so much since you were a counselor and someone else is leading the Department of Education? Have things changed so much? Or in this very legislature you ask us for an improvement plan for the Basque education system and today you ask us for a strategic plan for the Basque public school? I'm also telling Mrs Arrondo. They are marginalized to a part of the education system. Yes, Mrs Arrondo. What do you mean, no! I did not think that in this case EH Bildu would reach an agreement betting on a strategic plan for the Basque public school leaving aside, excluding the concerted network. But, well, we have seen that it is a reality and today it has done so. We believe from our group that with this issue, which is a very important one and which is a matter for the whole education system, we cannot do politics, and that is what we are seeing today in this plenary that two of the groups are doing, above all. This issue, education, must be managed, and that is what this Government is currently doing: management through concrete measures; measures that are going to bear fruit, their results, over the next few years; measures that did not put in place previous governments (or that of you, Mrs Celaá); measures that we had not seen implemented with the previous Department of Education. I repeat again, of course it is complicated, it is difficult to find solutions, but to work on this matter one cannot leave aside any part of the education system. We must work, we must coordinate and receive the contributions of all, because we do not intend to solve one problem without considering the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Corles. Third point in theme list: "Thus says the LORD: 'Thus says the LORD: "This [is] the commandment of the congregation of the people of Judah, concerning the knowledge of foreign languages. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u39	Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Today we live in a globalized world, so it is essential – and that is why we bring back here the issue of foreign languages, of trilingualism – it is essential to manage English and other foreign languages in most areas of knowledge and development. The learning of different languages for students, in our opinion, is already a primary necessity, is an investment of the future, since it not only increases the possibilities of work, but also enriches social and cultural life. In fact, Euskadi, together with Madrid, is today the community in which the most jobs demand, demand the knowledge of English. That is why we believe that an extraordinary effort must be made. We can't stay behind. And that's what's going on, ladies and gentlemen: our community has been turning around with the euskaldunization for thirty-five years, and we have been years behind in the momentum of English and foreign languages. Our education system, with respect to the rest of the communities, is the one that spends the most money on students attending school, we have said it on several occasions. According to the report of the State School Council, we are the community that makes the largest investment per student. But it has already been shown that making a greater effort to finance education does not always have to be matched with better results, and our community certainly believes that it is a reflection of that. With what we spend, with what our community spends, invests in education, we should be leading, as I said before, the educational ranking of OECD countries, and unfortunately, in relation to results, that is not so. Moreover, in our case it is particularly alarming with regard to this learning of foreign languages, where we get a clear suspension in relation to the rest of the Spanish Autonomous Communities. Not by comparison with the regions that have our per capita income in Europe, but by comparison with other Spanish autonomous communities, we follow the line on an issue that is already fundamental, learning and mastering English especially. And this is reflected in all the reports, in the latest reports of the State School Council and the Euskadi School Council. In the case of the State School Council (it is a recently published report, dated 2015) the latest data refer to 2013, but both reveal that we are lagging behind in learning foreign languages. In primary school, ladies and gentlemen, between the ages of six and twelve the teaching of English is widespread throughout Spain. If we focus exclusively on public centres, they teach subjects or contents in English..., above the Basque Autonomous Community are Castilla y León, Madrid, Aragón, Castilla-La Mancha, Murcia, Andalusia, Extremadura, Canarias, Navarra. Only when we add to the concerted network, which in that are ahead of the Basque public school, when we add to the Basque concerted centres, do we already recover some posts and place ourselves ahead of some communities. The Council of Ministers of the European Union already set in 2009, which is not the day before yesterday, already set in 2009 the strategic objectives in education and training with a view to 2020. It stated that by 2020, 75% of ESO students should be enrolled in a second foreign language. The Basque Country also occupies a mediocre place among the autonomy that imparts matter in a second foreign language among students from twelve to sixteen years old in Secondary. At present, only 22% of the population in our community are enrolled, compared to 42% in the rest of Spain and almost 51% in the European average. The three communities with the highest percentages of pupils in a second foreign language are above 60%: in Galicia, which also has its own language, almost 70% of its pupils with a second foreign language; in the Canary Islands, 64%; in Asturias, 62%; and in Spain, Andalusia and Extremadura, above 50%. And the Basque Autonomous Community, with a small 22%, in line, we are the penultimate of the Spanish Autonomous Communities in the learning of the second foreign language. In countries with which we often want to compare and with which the Department of Education is trying to compare, such as Luxembourg, Finland, Italy, there are already almost 100 per cent of students who already take subjects in two foreign languages. If we talk about Primaria, the result is disastrous again: we only have behind us, ladies..., in Primaria we only have behind us Ceuta and Melilla. In addition, the European Union also established that by 2020 half of the 15-year-olds should be managed as independent users in the first foreign language, in English. They should have reached a level equivalent to B1 in English. In Europe, 42% of pupils already reach a B1 level in English; in Spain, 27% already believe an independent level of user in English, and in our case the Euskadi School Council does not even provide data. He merely said in his report that that goal was far away. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has also set criteria for the training abroad of pupils from different European regions: that at least 20% of university graduates and at least 6% to 10% of young people with FP degrees should spend time training abroad. As no specific data have been provided to the Euskadi School Council, it has reflected in its report that the distance from this objective can be very wide. Euskadi has become, as I said, one of the communities with the highest demand for jobs in English. Our industry is an exporting industry, our company is a company that has made a clear commitment to internationalisation, and we cannot talk about the education system of the future, we cannot talk about challenges for the coming years, if we do not talk about a trilingual education system. Our school will stay behind, it will continue to lose jobs if we do not make a clear bet for English. For many years now, we have been insisting that English, the English bet, the trilingual model, must be an objective and a fundamental challenge of our educational system, that there must be political will, that there must be instruments so that our educational institutions can clearly bet on English. I think it's the biggest challenge we have, it's the biggest favor we can do to young generations today. The greatest effort, the greatest gift we can give you Counselor, taking advantage that you are here (the lehendakari is not) , the greatest contribution we can make to young generations today, if we want to secure their future, a future that will also necessarily be a future as a whole, within the framework of the European Union, the greatest contribution is to support English in Basque school. Without English, our students and our students will be lame. They'll be lame tomorrow. That is the main challenge of our education system. We have to talk about quality, we have to talk about integration, we have to talk about inclusion, we have to talk about equity, we have to talk about many things, but without English our education system, counselor, will be lame. We need that to be the big bet for the next few years. Our educational system is already capable of addressing and maintaining a clear line and positioning in relation to euskaldunization. A trembling effort has been made over the course of thirty years; our teacher is Basque, he is trained to teach Basque youth in Basque. We do not have sufficiently qualified teachers to extend, to generalize English in our educational system, and that has to be the great challenge of this Government. This government and the following governments, but we need... If we don't put on the batteries now, we'll be late, we'll miss the train, we'll be late. Our great effort for the coming years is English. That is already a fundamental challenge and a clear objective for all countries in our environment. I think this should be a matter of meeting, something we must all agree on. Another thing will be the way to do it, but we need resources, we need political will for all centers to assume that English is the great challenge of the future. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u40	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u41	Ladies and gentlemen, 80% of children in northern Europe speak English at school. Here, will we get to 20% at some point? Ladies and gentlemen, the concerted network does not, during this parliamentary term, specify the public impulse to gradually become a trilingual education. The vast majority of concerted education and all Ikastolas work subjects using English as a vehicle language. The public network does need the momentum, because the headline is the counselor, is the Department of Education, Linguistic Policy and Culture, and it does need the momentum. But look, ladies and gentlemen, what the Euskadi School Council said (beyond saying that the goal is far away, indeed). The Euskadi School Council, in its 2012-2013 report and in relation to the Trilingual Education Framework and its results, launched in 2011, said: In Primary Education the experience group, i.e. the trilingual education framework, records its main progress, 19% at level A2, while the control group drops to A1, with 15%. In Compulsory Secondary Education – this is important, ladies and gentlemen, because we have to make a decision on this – the MET group (the trilingual education framework group) reaches level B2 or B1 by 68% (it is truly spectacular: 68% reach B1 or B2 in the third of the Compulsory Secondary Education), while those who do not do so remain 16% in B1 and 3% in B2. Spectacular. But in the MET-2, in other words, in which last week the counselor presented, she herself recognizes that in the third of the ESO the experimental groups, only the experimental groups, exceed the average score of Euskadi and the ECO in PISA 2012. This says talking about math. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that a subject is done in English not only does not harm, not only does it significantly improve English, but it also improves that group in mathematics, in language and in the rest of subjects, not losing anything, but vice versa in many cases, in the co-official languages. So, what's the loss? None. What's the gain? All of it. It's all the gain. Well, well, with these results, there's just no impulse for public school. There's no impulse just. We have 59,000 students on the concerted network making English as a vehicle language for a subject, and ten thousand and peak, does not reach 11,000, on the public network. Special circumstances, different starting point? Of course. But who has to get the turbo in? Who is the holder: the Government. The Government must do so. But here it is that, in addition, in that appearance it was presented and it was stated that there were groups that had been made even more English, English plus, and that had produced better results than even the trilingual education framework. Even. Of course, listen! Of course! First, more hours, better results, but it is that in addition to that group of English plus has been introduced, a group has been incorporated that is 80% concerted education, that in addition it is a group that makes extracurricular in English, and that in addition it is an elected group. The Trilingual Education Framework proposed, both 1 and 2, was first targeted at all students. There was no forecast of "we're going to put those who know the most and the smartest and those with the best social and economic status," but it was going to everyone. And it was also sought by all means, precisely to achieve the results of the pilot plan, that there would be a sufficiently representative sample in relation to the socio-economic capacity of pupils, their cognitive capacity and their ability to develop skills in foreign languages. Therefore, the only scientifically evaluated experimental plan in this community is the trilingual education framework. The only, the only, scientifically evaluated by PISA and the University of Cambridge, and that yields these results. And what do we want with that, ladies and gentlemen? What we want is that, given that once again the concerted network carries its own impulse, the ikastolas carry its impulse and all are doing so, with the differential characteristics of each one, because, I repeat, the MET was an experimental pilot plan, but that it was born with a vocation to settle if it obtained the results it has obtained... And, as a pilot plan, if it is not necessary to set so much schedule calculation in a matter, that has to be adapted, it has to be adjusted, precisely so that it can continue to move forward. Well, ladies and gentlemen, what we are asking for here, what we are asking for here, brought by the Group of the European People's Party, is a strategic plan for the progressive spread of the foreign language throughout the education system, which will enable us to make progress in this area. Because if we do not advance in this matter, that is, in the knowledge of English, we will not be competitive. That some center wants French, or German? Good, but English is not only koiné, the common language for Europe, for science, but it is also the cross-cutting competence for a job. And, therefore, we cannot allow our students in public education, because they cannot access these goods, to be seen in unequal conditions with others when it comes to acquiring a job or travelling abroad in a globalized world. That is why, once again, year after year, months after months, we reiterate our request not to waste time. We cannot waste time on this, because while we are standing others advance, and the distance is greater. We cannot accept linguistic gaps either between networks or between educational centres in the community, much less between the community, the rest of the communities and the rest of Europe. So, ladies and gentlemen, let us move forward, please, and move along the scientifically evaluated path, which allows us to achieve the best results. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u42	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. On behalf of the Mistto-UPyD team, Mr. Maniro, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u43	Thank you, President. Very good initiative by the Group of the European People's Party, good arguments, good justification, and good intervention by Mrs Celaá too. It is difficult to improve their interventions because they have summed up perfectly well that challenge that we have as a Basque society: to include learning English so that things change from here to the future. I think many of us missed learning English when we were younger. And we do miss it: our families miss it, our friends miss it, our colleagues miss it... our generation misses it. And even though some have learned (we have learned) this language in some way, the truth is that, in the end, I think that, by looking back, we miss that much-needed learning of English, not only to work, but to live together, to travel and to enjoy life in general. Therefore, Mr Oyarzabal's proposal basically coincides with what we have advocated in recent years, already in the previous legislature, when we put a lot of emphasis on the defence and development of the trilingual system of teaching, including scrupulous respect for the freedom of language choice. Proof of this is that year after year we have asked for more money for English and for teachers to learn and improve their English skills, through amendments to the budgets, which have systematically been rejected by the Basque Government or by groups that supported or support the Basque Government. And the truth is that these amendments were also rejected during the past parliamentary term by those groups that supported the Government, both the Group of the People's Party and the Socialist Group, and over the past few years they have also been rejected by the Basque Nationalist group. I say this because I think it's time to remember that in politics, as in life, facts are more important than words. And over the past few years we have lost enormous opportunities to increase the English budget and the English improvement and learning budget by our teachers. In this regard, I would like to recall that the Socialist Government, supported by the People's Group, has become a missed opportunity in this area too; a missed opportunity to prioritize English as it corresponds to a society that pretends to be advanced, and to guarantee freedom of linguistic choice in the mother tongue, as it corresponds to a society that purports to be made up of free citizens and with all its rights fully in force. There our criticism of the PP, therefore, since when it could have had influence for significant steps to be taken in the trilingual model and in the Englishization of the educational system, starting with the teachers, it is evident that they certainly did not or did not want to have a decisive influence on the Basque government of Mr Patxi López. Rather, they kept looking at the shrews in connection with this issue. The truth is that there are times when students themselves know more, who have been lucky enough to learn English on their own, than those who are giving them English lessons, or there are not enough teachers with high knowledge to give other subjects in that language. That is the reality of the current education system. It is very well what Mr Oyarzabal is asking for, but we should start with this, by devoting a very important budget effort so that a significant number of teachers could acquire a high level of English, which would obviously involve liberalisation and hiring substitutes that already know English. Finally, the same thing has been done with Basque, where there has been no problem in spending millions of euros per year, with the following difference that nobody takes into account and that I want to expose to them, without therefore shaking the walls of this Parliament: when a child or young person learns Basque, the number of additional people with whom he can communicate is zero, while if he learns English there are millions. This is an obvious fact that simplifies the reasons why it is very important to learn English. Yes, when a Basque child or young person learns Basque, the number of additional speakers they can communicate with is zero, while if they learn English there are millions. Except, finally, the French of southern France who could know the Basque, which are not many either. Finally, the question is that money for euskaldunization continues to be devoted here, and yet very little effort is being made to learn English. The test is very clear: we are the first community in school results, where there is less school failure, more graduates in high school and university, etc., and yet we get the worst results in languages. English teaching, the subject, is widespread in primary education for all pupils, but the difference is provided by the schools that teach various subjects in English. We are the tenth autonomous community in these results. The Basque public network has ahead, as has been said, Castilla y León, Madrid, Aragón, Castilla-La Mancha, Murcia, Andalusia, Extremadura, Canarias or Navarre. In Secondary the results are similar, and we have before us Extremadura, Castile-La Mancha, Andalusia, Murcia, Madrid, Canarias, Castile and León, Aragón and Cantabria. A very mediocre place to be the autonomous community with the best overall school results, and where more money is invested in education. Something's failing. What's wrong? Political will. If we go to students who learn two foreign languages, the situation is almost dramatic, as we only have Ceuta and Melilla in primary school, and Catalonia in secondary school. Official data of the State School Council. One more fact: in Basque, to be a teacher of English, less qualification is required than to give Basque, which confirms what he said before the low level of English teachers, which on numerous occasions provoke even the hilarity of the students who on their own and risk learned English. The situation is also dramatic in the public school, as as the concerted network progresses, the public has been left behind. As a matter of fact, while 58,649 private kids are integrated into trilingual models, only 10,900 are in the public network. In other words, it does not account for 20 % of the total. That is why we find it interesting what the Group of the European People's Party proposed in point 3 and the Socialist Group in point 2 to reformulate the rules on aid for the implementation of multilingual models. Something that's been picked up in the transactional we've signed. In short, a huge failure, a fiasco of the Department of Education, deeply concerned and obsessed with Basque, but seems to be uninterested in the comprehensive future of the children and adolescents of Euskadi, since without English they will be closed to many vital possibilities and many professional exits in the future. Not only work exits, but knowledge and experiences of all kinds. That's why English is so important. On the other hand, it makes no sense for children to go to public school and to leave school to go to private lessons in English, which is something I usually see on a daily basis and which seems to me to show that something fails in this model. And, therefore, something will have to be done. And the question we ask ourselves is what has been wrong for so many years. Because it is obviously not just about this department, this government; this is surely the responsibility of all of us in one way or another, by action or omission, of all previous education departments, and of all previous governments. Not having had sufficient scope to take into account the extraordinary importance of English. Anyway, today I think it's clear that the current counselor is sloppy and has no idea where she's getting the air from. And a clear proof of that is also this subject of the third language. In short, what we advocate is more English, better English for all and all, trilingualism, and obviously also for our part maintenance or improvement, guarantee of the freedom of linguistic choice. The whole of our amendment is included in the compromise amendment, a perfectly reasonable compromise amendment which I hope can be adopted at today's sitting of this Parliament. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u44	Thank you, Mr. Maniro. Eubertarians represent the team. My dear madam, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u45	Good morning. Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, chiefs, congressmen. You are above all aware that the two weeks ago you have introduced this law, and have been directing corrections to it, having been asked by the chairman of the series of schools, politics, and Culturals to present the last report to MET II., as has been mentioned here. The data and results that MET II brought in during this appearance. As we are discussing today, we should have done this before this incident, but at last the proposition deferred it until now. Talde Popularrak legez bestekoan eskatzen duen 1. puntuarekin ados gaude "... to take the necessary measures to try to achieve the strategic objectives of the European Union in the education and training of foreign languages by 2020." Izan ere, guk honako hau eskatzen dugu gure zuzenketan: "We call on the Basque Government to continue to promote the idiomatic and didactic-pedagogical training of teachers in foreign languages, in order to try to achieve the objectives set by the European Union by 2020". On the other hand, as has been said here, on Tuesday at the Board of Education, the chairman of the educational system reported a new plan of improvement. And he mentioned the 1036/2015 Decree that he had done last year. In it the curriculum of elementary education is determined in this decree, and ordains that in its fifth regulation, it is necessary that the government should make the plan of improvement presented in this week, and that it should be proposed that the education system should advance from equity and quality to perfection. Within this plan of improvement, as stated in the appearance, several strategic lines were mentioned, and, among all, one says "Measures for the consolidation of bilingualism in the framework of a plurilingual education, until gradually reaching the generalization of the offer of the first foreign language as a language to be used in the centers". This is what remains recorded in the new curriculum in the fifth additional regulations, which the government ought to do in order to improve the educational system. So we have a decree, and this decree has three articles, which I would like to mention. The planning of languages is very clear in these three articles (Deut. 10, 11, and 24). "Article 10. Bilingualism and plurilingualism. The department will promote the consolidation of bilingualism within the framework of multilingual education, which will contribute to the improvement and development of existing language models. To this end, it will ensure that the Basque language is given the preferential treatment necessary to compensate for the inequality of social use between the two official languages, so that the student reaches at the end of basic education, a practical and effective communicative competence in Basque and Spanish, and sufficient in the first foreign language. All this without excluding a second language in those centres that provide for it in their linguistic project. In any case, the socio-linguistic conditions of the student and the environment will be taken into account." In Article 11, the department will promote integrated and comprehensive language treatment, which I will explain below. Article 24 cites the linguistic project of the centre, which states that "the linguistic project of the centre means the planning of all aspects related to the teaching and use of the languages of each educational centre to carry out it in its own field". He also says that "it corresponds to the maximum body of representation in public institutions, or the school council of private concerted centres, the approval of the linguistic project of the centre". And this goes hand in hand with another strategic line presented by the counsellor as to the autonomy of the centers. What was going on so far? So far, the department was calling in colleges for multiple language projects. I must say, by the way, that 315 schools are at the present day, of which 110 are public. Mrs. Celaá, the impulse to public school... The data you have given on the number of students, you should see how they have been measured, because here the important thing is the number of centers, which is going to get more and more. When a call is made for the roles of language in the schools, the department gave money, and was approximately one-third of a teacher's job. And the school was engaged to teach this teacher English later, but that's not the way to develop it until today, is it? Now what do you want? I want to... From the project that the school itself has, it will say what it wants to do, which features it will require. The schools must have the educational project, the language project, and the general project. They'll all have to accept them. What we want, above LOMCE, is to accept language projects from our parents, to accept them at OMR. I mean, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you know, you Por tant, exits un decreto que fore artículos lo que tiente que hacer el Gobierno. The centre has to have a linguistic project. If there is no language project at the centre, where is the training going to hang? We have to guarantee it. We need to strengthen it. The language project has been regulated by this view in a decree. We have very solid bases to move forward, as was said in the appearance. The planning proposed in the proposal by the People's Party is a measure, but it cannot be the only one. Three hundred and fifty schools are already training their workers, but other measures are needed. We have to identify, for example, what are the key positions, which are to be formed; if once trained they go to another position, what to do; what to do with the one who comes new, or with the one who comes new teacher. The language project is the nearest project of reality. A project of all languages. So the teacher who's working inside has to get ready and ask for the next one. In the popular education system on the Euskara, the project has to guarantee the ability to use the two official languages by word and by writing them over and over. In other words, the linguistic project brings together two fundamental aspects, such as the knowledge and use of languages. For this they are very important, for example, the R courses of the Irale, what is called "idiomatic updating" of the teachers. Beste formazio garrantzizkoa hizkuntzen didaktika da, eta hemen berriro ere aipati behar da article 11 of the decree, which mentions the integral and integrated treatment. What do you mean? It is integrated to learn a language that has to be used for other languages. There are common elements in the teaching of languages. That every language has its content, and that it is necessary to take advantage of them, and to hire them. That the content of a language is not isolated, shut, independent, but shared with the same content without mixing with the student. That's what I'm talking about. And when we say the integral, we mean that all teachers, whether the language itself, or those who give matter in a particular language, must work with the mathematicians, that they ought to be careful of language, that they must be conscious of it. That's why we mention the measures for the protestation on all languages, the integrated and integrated teaching that will have the axis of the eucha. All this that I have mentioned has already been presented in the House, is hung (if not, will be hung today) on the network, and the department will make it known to the schools to start this new phase of improvement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Passing to a group that hasn't issued any corrections from EH Collect, Mr. Aguirre, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u47	Thank you, ma'am. Yes, yes, yes, yes, Mr. Oyhal, as I told you the other day. Where do they stop, sí, oui... ? In fact, that's what the Populous Party wants to discuss today and what the Socialists andUPyD will applaud or applaud. And as through this legislation, today's discussion will be played without any step forward. In fact, the other day, we said it was the Parche that planned, and this time it will be the same. No progress has been made since the average was accepted in 2013, and even though we all said that we'd put ourselves in a position to agree. And the consideration of the profound discussion of today will not be affected, for the profound question is this: What school do we want, and what students do we want when we've finished schooling with the languages? That's from our point of view, the question. As we have been told, we are brought to the seducing discussion by the Party Popular Party, the Socialists, and theUPyDs. The popular Party has given us its message again that it's important in the education system of English and middle school. The Socialist Party has also extended to us that the triangleal frame is here ideal, called MET. And there's nothing to do but listen toUPyD, where he says "no a recuperacion del eeskio como objectivo, se gasta mucho," y en linglés no gasta nada." And the Nacionists Partado Nacionists indefinators. We, as we know, want multiple eucalyptics, because we agree with the Board of Education, "Purilinguism elje eje del eeszera," says the lady on her website, and she also mentioned the fact that in contradiction you have mentioned a fall, because you said that the examples will continue vigente, and will remain as they have been before. She was born a diet erratuk, izana ere, METeko ikerketa honek, nik you had to date bear intersgarriak eman dituela. We must also read, Mr Oyarzabal, the MET data here, not just the data from outside. Bat cataz "Plurilinguism on the Euskera axis" are dueen. Are gehiago esaten du, "according to the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages of 1992, taking into account that the conditions of the environment and social interaction favor the use of Spanish and that the assessments have shown that the use of Basque in the teaching-learning process is fundamental to acquire sufficient oral and written communication competence" – which is what the law says but is not achieved, and this is not only what I say, but all the research and evaluations that have been made – "this multilingual system will have as its axis the Basque, in order to overcome the current imbalance between the two official languages, today unfavorable for Basque, and to promote the social equality of both languages and the equality of opportunity for pupils". Horixa da Hezkuntza Saileko web orrian azaltzen dena eta gu guztiz bat catazena. And this is the debate for us. This is the debate. Only that the Government has not had the courage to carry on with what it says. From Euskal Herria Bildu we have told him a thousand and one times, and we have shown our willingness to reach agreements, but the Government has become amilane, from our point of view. Today we have heard from Mrs Mendizabal saying that on the one hand the axis is going to be the euskera, but on the other hand they will continue with the current models, when we know that the current existing models do not guarantee that the axis is the euskera. For it is the first thing that the euscal educational system ought to solve, how to get the eustany with the eucalyptic students. The present situation is this: A standard does not resist; two of the three students do not resist the example B; The data is extremely troubling. They have done very little for this government, and for the only frame which the Socialist Party has made. Based on this, we have several times laid the proposition on the table, to put it into a state of plunge, according to all the inquiries which have hitherto been made, which ensures that they have a sufficient communicative grade of the support of the best, either in their mouths or in their writing. This means clearly that the frame of modern patterns must be cancelled and started. And that's not just the Basque Country Collectors, there's the schools, the schools, the parents, the Basque School and so on, that's what they call the same. And this is not guaranteed by someone like the MET program. This program MET, which has been experimentally discussed, has been shown to be a very small progress in eucalyptus, so it is not useful for the purpose. The next question is: how does Europe attain its goals for 2020? And there are two: 50% of the students get a higher level in the first foreign language B1 or, on the other hand, how to get 75% of the students in two foreign languages. These are the points which Europe mark. In this Illus, it was an attempt to establish the reference level of the European frame B1, for foreign language, and for B2 eusca and Spanish. This was made with the consent of all the educationmakers. Some of you, however, on one side of the popular Party, did not accept it. When the Socialist came to the government, he took away this curriculum and the degrees of reference. Denborak erakutsi du... And this will recognise, Mr Oyarzabal, that we are at least ahead of the decision taken by the Council of Ministers of Europe in 2009, saying that the reference level had to be B1. That we did in 2007, and you did not agree at all. This will at least recognize us. Time has shown that this purpose of the place was just and realistic. It's just a week ago, the evaluation of MET 2011-2014, introduced by the chairman of the Board of Education. Welcome, if it's late. And, in my opinion, this is very important. Where we're going when the necessary school is over. And then, in the second part, I shall take more notice of this, but when we put it in reference to B2 eucosa, B2 for Spanish, and B1 for foreign language, especially where English is here, if we look for agreement in it, I think we shall have a very great deal of progress, because when this is defined, and that is the end, the next question is how it can be attained. For that purpose, there's no magic recipe from our point of view and there's no agreement. The Euscalal education system has a long career at the time when foreign languages are grafted into schools, not only MET; the solution, therefore, is in harmony. The solution does not go through MET. It seems to us that the educationmakers, parents, educational people, have a great deal to say about this. Let us set ourselves to work with them, and determine for them the measures we have to take among them, the ends, these first-mentioned objects, to attain them. And the Basque Country will reject today's illegal or the media for today. He will refuse for a reason, because this is not what he asks otherwise than just. In other words, the only thing is demanded in the case of the law; a planning, when you know that there is very little left in the course of the course of the course and in the next year of study, which cannot be put into action because the process of education is slower than these. So we say no: for, from our point of view, he does not reach the real content, and from another point of view, he gives no time to the study of the strategic plan, or to resume his next year's study. So it seems to us that there is no such thing as the popular Party, which the Party Socialists and the UPyDs propose. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u48	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Passing the answers round, representative of the Populative Party. Mr. Oyal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u49	Thank you very much, Madam President. And I really regret that on a question like this, where I think we should find a meeting point to enable an impetus to English in our educational system, because, as always, we find ourselves in opposite positions of the nationalists and especially of Bildu, which in this case is always refractory to the progress and the incorporation of English in our educational system. We have made a number of approaches in a compromise amendment which is very reasonable. Firstly, what we propose is to achieve the strategic objectives set by the European Union in 2009 in the field of education and training in foreign languages. Look, it's something we all shared! But one thing is to share the goal and another is to do nothing to achieve that goal. We just have to do more than what we're doing to achieve that goal! And what we propose is simply to take the necessary measures to meet the objectives set out in the European Union and not to stand in the way of Europe on this issue. Secondly, that a plan be submitted to the Education Commission for the generalization of English education, so that the entire student population is effectively reached, that concerted education is not lost, that the batteries have been on this issue for years, and that we leave the public behind. EH Bildu can't come here every two by three to say that they defend public education, when their position reflects the incorporation of English into the education system, what they are doing is limiting the opportunities of all girls and boys attending public school. You are limiting your opportunities for the future! And what are we proposing? Review the rules on aid to centres, of course. It is necessary to review the rules on aid to centres for the development of these trilingual and multilingual projects! They are expanding, but they are expanding mostly in the concerted centres. And we need to support with resources and trained teachers to deliver English-language courses, further strengthening follow-up to these projects. It's just that what I'm saying is not Chinese, it's something we share! What happens is that you are committed to continuing to study, to continue to reflect on what we have to do with English. Look, we've been thinking too many years to take this matter seriously! And what is no less important is to ensure the necessary funding for the progressive generalization of this teaching of curricular subjects. It's not enough to give English, and we know it here. They have already launched it in all the autonomous communities, and here, that we know that it is not enough to give Basque and that we have to incorporate other subjects into Basque, we know that it is not enough to give English. We know that's not enough. We know that English must be incorporated into other curricular subjects. We need teachers who can give other subjects in English, and we don't have them, and we strive to lose legislatures on this issue. And this, unfortunately, has been a lost legislature for English, but we can't talk... Surely much more could have been done than was done in the previous legislature, but it was not a lost legislature. The previous legislature served to lay the foundations for what all the pilot projects are. Look, if today there are 315 centers that are running these trilingual projects, it's because something was done in the previous legislature. And we are driving the work of that socialist Government in the area of English. Look, it's just that in this legislature they've been cut short. Not that they have not been expanded: all English support items have been cut. We've retreated! It's not that we're slow on the English road, it's that we've retreated. It is that the PNV legislature is a lost legislature for English, where the English games have been cut and where no impulse has been given to trilingualism, but quite the contrary. He says we need to figure out how to get Euskaldune students. Hey, do you think in 2016 the question we have to ask ourselves here is how we get euskaldunes students? Hey, you guys are a little old on this! Look, the challenges of the education system are already another story! I mean, we can't be talking, Mrs. Mendizabal, about how you form, who you form, what we do, what we do with who comes new or who comes new... Hey, but all this is already thought, it had to be thought, that we started with this story twelve years ago! And we have to go to the next legislature to see what we do with English? Hey, they're pulling us out right now... That we are already taking advantage of all the communities! That we're just ahead of Ceuta and Melilla! This is a shame for our country! It is that we cannot allow the future opportunities of young Basques to be limited in this way. It just can't be! It's just that Bildu is in this case... She did it – and I'm done, Madam President – with high speed. We're going to be the last to count on high speed because Bildu pawned that he didn't want high speed, and since the PNV is always jammed with this story, he put on batteries recently. We're gonna be late for that. We are going to be in line with English because Bildu has decided that he does not want English in the education system, he is annoyed by English in the education system, and in this case the PNV does not take any steps to deal with this seriously. I think, of course, it is regrettable that, in addition to this case, all the families who take their children to public school are being harmed. They are being limited in their ability to have a chance for the future.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u50	Thank you, Mr. Oyre generous.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u51	40% of Basque companies require English to apply for a job. 40% of Basque companies are already demanding this. In a few years' time, most Basque companies will be demanding English. And most, ladies and gentlemen, most of the students...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u52	Thank you, Mr. Oyre generous. ...that today they are studying in public education, when they finish the compulsory stage within a few years they will not have the capacity in English to opt for these jobs tomorrow.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u53	Thank you, Mr Oyre generous. Basque Socialists. Mrs. Celaa, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u54	If anything has been pointing out the successive groups that have passed to talk about FP law this week has been..., they have talked about the imperative need for English for FP. Need. But, Mr. Maneiro... I probably did not tell you that personally, but you should know that since the Barcelona 2002 target, which is reiterated by the European Union in 2009, when we came to govern, we launched the following. On 3 May I myself went to the Education Commission to launch the entire system of the trilingual education framework that started the following course, that is, in 2010-2011 the first, 2011-2012 the second. But, in addition, we launched the following: weekly stays for idiomatic reinforcement in sixth primary school in Bernedo and Berriz; scholarships (more than 2,000) for four-week stays in July and August for Baccalaureate, Secondary school and professionals; we doubled the number of assistants in the educational centers, conversation assistants we brought, natives of the language we wanted to teach. I mean, we did a lot, a lot on the subject of English. A lot. With the support, as you well know, of the People's Group. But I have to tell you that it is precisely this that has been done that has allowed the system, which also had some other initiatives initiated earlier, to have its own engine for the concerted system and the ikastola system. Because, Mr. Shake it up, you're not going to tell me that the Ikastolas you're using vehiclely English despise euskera! It's just that Basque and English don't add up to zero. It's just the opposite. It's not a zero-sum strategy. And you know that because of the sociolinguistic situation of this community, with a strong diglossy – and for that no one is responsible, more than history – in the sociolinguistic situation of this community, in which only 24% of the students we have are of Basquedun origin, we cannot wait at the door of the shop for everything, the two co-official languages – which we must not look at in any way in terms of usefulness with English, because the two co-official languages are our own, and we must cultivate, improve and implement them – we do not have to wait for those two co-official languages to reach the full exceedance to begin with English. I heard you say the other day that from the ESO room all Basque students should have a B2 in Basque and English, you said. Look at the way to achieve this (in Basque and in English, B2), the way to achieve it, listen, look, is nothing more than the use of languages, as the Barcelona objective says, and the European Union, which reiterates it in 2009. But also, you see, this government says what it says, and I believe it: "Uriarte will extend the coming course in trilingualism from primary to baccalaureate." And this is dated June 30, 2014. I say that it will not refer to extending trilingualism exclusively in concertate! But the data, as Mrs Mendizabal tells us, naturally and fortunately they are improving. They are improving, but it is that the public school needs an important boost in this regard, because the data we have provided here humbly are government data, as it could not otherwise be, and in that government data, as we do... We left 118 centers with the watch set fifty-fifty, with the watch set for trilingual teaching. Then we find, in 2014-2015, 82 in the public and 172 in the concertados, and now we find, according to the response of the Government itself, 110 public and 205 private concertados. Well, listen, 11,000 students on one side, 58,000 on the other, fifty-eight thousand and peak! Look, it's that the studentship of the concerted sextuplicates almost that of the public centers! Hey, this requires a wake-up call. And whose call? of which it is the holder, of which it is the holder, of the Government, of which it is the holder of the public. Difficulties? Of course, it was just missing! Who said education and management of the education system was easy? Who said that? No one, no one. We all know that, but that can't stop us. He can't stop us in any way, because, look at you, the Basque and the English are not on their backs; it's the other way around, it's just the other way around. I mean, a bilingual student has a lot more chances of learning the third language, whether it's English or Basque. We have to make an important push, an effort, continue with the important effort with regard to the Basque, but, listen, if we have the whole public system to model D! With the exception of 3%, the whole public system in model D. Is there anything else you can do? The community will have to do, because the school has made the greatest effort. But what we do not have is that great impulse of English in public education, and for that, ladies and gentlemen, we need once again the effort of all, but above all the clear, strong, project momentum of the public school holder, who is the government. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Celaá. Miss... He mustn't speak. Eubertarians. The word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u56	Eskerrik asko, president andrea. Well, first of all I want to quote – in the appearance of the MET data I said –..., there is an EPI report that makes Sweden, and I will repeat it. It is the global English-language competition index. Worldwide Spain is in number 23. It's an adult English competition. Spain is number 23, and within Spain the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country is the first community to appear on the list, followed by Navarra. If we extrapolated the score given to the Basque Country in the IPR classification worldwide, it would appear behind Austria, in position number 11. And Spain is number 23. I mean, just as an anecdote, because it looks like we only speak Basque here or we just speak Spanish. Well, to UPyD and PP, I wanted to tell you that you have not looked at the budgets, because you have increased many items related to foreign languages, and Mrs Celaá has already said that. Look at the budgets, please. All those items that you have quoted, Mrs Celaá, and this government has increased them, and it will not find them as it left them. Mr. Aguirre, I have not said that the patterns ought to be kept in the same way. Besides, I don't want that. It's been a dynamic model system, it's moved for years, and it's moved because my parents wanted it that way. Because their parents have that right, in which patterns they're tagging their children. What's the point of asking the government for a plan within the plan, within that plan...? Looks like we're talking Russian dolls: one doll inside another... An endless. Is this a plan within the strategic plan carried out by Councilwoman Celaá? We say it doesn't make sense because we have a decree that obliges the department to activate effective measures. The Government has made a sincere attempt to distinguish these measures, with which we agree. Moreover, we cannot wait three months for the plan they request to be presented in the proposal. In three months, we've passed the course. It has to be prepared now, so that the centers are aware of what is coming to them and make the necessary preparations for the next course. It's got to be right now. You're trying to slow down the administration's work. We can't understand, if not, what they want! The government will accomplish this plan by the L3 line of the plan to improve it, in which the diagnosis, the ends, the achievement indicators. The government will direct different phone calls from 2016-2010 to guide these purposes. As I said at the beginning, the department has already presented the improvement plan and the strategic objectives and lines to be worked out. The proponents of the transactional, what do they want to do?, dynamize, or slow down the process? We can't waste time, it's a luxury we can't afford. Because it wouldn't be three months, it would be a full course. We can tell the government what, but not how. Dago clay hori. 315 schools now, and in two years the government has tripled the number of schools obtained by the MET of the former government. Mrs Celaá, that there is no impulse for the public, she says. You did push the MET a lot in the network concerted, and very substantially. A powerful impulse. He gave good impulses for the MET at the concert. What's the matter, that I needed the concert to do the numbers, or that the audience wasn't following him? The public is increasing, and there are a lot of directors who are working for the introduction of English, and we will reach 100 percent by 2020. The evaluation of the ETF is very valuable, Mrs Celaá. I very much agree with you. The scientific evaluation of the data tells us that here in this country has been committed to multilingualism, with MET, within the MET and outside the MET. And it also tells us that what has increased is the learning of English outside of the MET. Faced with this, we are promoting multilingual projects that guarantee the two official languages, and the introduction of English. Because some languages accompany others, Mr. Oyarzabal. There's life after the MET. The reality of the communities in which we have two starting languages (Nafarroa, Valencia, Catalonia and us) is that in the ESO the rhythm of the second foreign language is slower, and that is normal, because we have a system of two plus two (two official languages, plus two foreign languages). On the other hand, in other communities they only have one plus two. So, we want to get to the formula two plus two. Obviously, it can slow down the pace, because the number of hours given in each language is greater, but at the same time it is an advantage, because knowing two languages helps you to learn the language skills of the other languages more easily. And here I just want to mention – as I no longer have time, Mrs Celaá – that in the last UNESCO report of 2005, entitled "Replanting education for a common good", which is the one following the Delors report that you so much admire and that was used, the Delors report, to carry out the 2007 curriculum, and in 2010 you did not modify it for me. So, I say, the Unesco report of 2015 says on page 40, and read it, that the curriculum of the Basque Country goes in line with the competences that the student needs, because, apart from mathematics and content, you have to learn to think, to learn, to undertake, to expose yourself orally in writing and digitally. Competition is much more global. We don't want lame students with English...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u57	Finish...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u58	And you don't have to laugh at Heziberri, please! And being a counselor, or an ex-advisor, even less so. Not ridiculous...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u59	Finish it, Mrs. Müller...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u60	The Basque education system was cited in the 2015 Unesco report. And we already know that the globalized world...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Müller.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u62	... It is going to ask us for English and other languages, and that is what this government is going to give these students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Müller. Finally, representative of the EH Collector. Mr. Aguirre, the word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u64	Thank you, ma'am. First, I want to make a few tips about the Popular Party and some things that the Socialists have also said. You tell us, Mr Oyarzabal, that we are refractory to the incorporation of English, which seems to bother us, that we do not want English. Let me make it very clear: we want boys and girls to know Basque, Spanish and English at the end of compulsory education, and whether it is possible for a second foreign language as well. I mean, let it be very clear to you, because you've learned it, and repeat every two by three that that's how it is, that we don't want it. Therefore, let it be very clear to you. And we're going to do a practical exercise, which I think is the most serious one we have to do. First, we're going to establish what competitive levels students have to achieve at the end of compulsory secondary education. In my first shift I was referring to that, although we raised it and you were against it, but let's see a little what the evaluation of the MET says. One (let's get tongue by tongue), Spanish. And in Spanish he says that primary school students almost all get B1, and secondary school students get B2 in third grade. There is no difference between the student being in model A, model B or model D. That is clear. Let's go to the euskera, and in euskera we have the next situation, depending on the model. In model A, in primary school students just get the A2; in model B, in primary school, 67.3 get the B1, and in model D, the B1 get the 78%. Let's go to high school in Basque. In model A it recommends the working group that could be achieved, at the end of compulsory secondary education, the B1; it recommends that those of model B, well, it recommends..., the B2 would be the reference, but that those of model B would be between B1 and B2, and that those of model D would be in B2. So, here we have a deficit. If we pose and we are saying that the two official languages themselves... I imagine that you will agree, Mrs Celaá, that we must achieve the same objectives for the two official languages! I imagine we'll agree on this! If we agree, there is a deficit, because the students who are in the Basque education system do not all get the reference model B2. So, here's something we'll have to do. Let's go to English. And in English we have, on the one hand, in Primary. You know, as the counselor told us, that they had done three checks: one, English plus; two, MET; and three, compulsory English, that is to say, what marks the decree that at least English has to work. And there we have that in Primary level A2 achieves 42.4 % of the English plus; 34 % of the MET, and 13 % of the compulsory English. And in Secondary we have, taking as a reference the B1, which gets it 91% of those in English plus, 75.1% of those in the MET, and 41.2% of those in what is compulsory English, three or four hours depending on the stage, which is what marks the curriculum at least. We therefore have two challenges here, Mr Oyarzabal. Two, not one, Mrs. Celaá. We have two challenges: Basque, and English. And you... That's why I said earlier, the question is how do we get all the students to get in Basque B2, in Spanish B2, and in English B1, at the end of compulsory schooling. How do we do it? You pose a system: 20-20-20, the MET, that's the MET, and here you agree. We in his time raised a question... And you've alluded to the ikastolas, and it's not just the ikastolas, eh! There are public schools that have a minimum (a minimum!) of 60%, Mrs Celaá, which is what we proposed. And I think it can be an element to analyse, because what is clear is that what the evaluations say is that if there is 60% presence in the school with regard to the euskera, success is quite guaranteed. And we posed it to you and you said no. He said no. Therefore, why can't we talk about this, of establishing at least 60% of Basque in schools, and from there, if we take into account that in Spanish it is acquired, both in Primary and Secondary, in all models, it is already acquired B2, we see how English is introduced in a vehicle way? That we agree on that, in the introduction of English in a vehicle way, Mr Oyarzabal! Let him get in his head, that we agree. Therefore, we believe that this is the approach, and I believe that a... Eztabaida serious batek eta sakon batek honetaz hitz egitera eta ha adotera eraman behar gaituela. No lortu euskran is no lortu ingelesean, nire ustez, horiek will say bi errornka nagusienak. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u65	Thank you, Mr. Aguirre generous. Forth point on the theme list: "Mode, introduced by Ubeka, Ubera Aranz, and the parliamentary members of the EH Union, concerning the worthy conditions of work and the regulating of autonomical compact. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Ubera, it's your word to introduce and take off the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u66	Good noon, everyone. Sometimes, perhaps, it's a difficult task for politicians, militants, operators, unions, and so on. To proclaim worthy conditions of labour for the workers of this country, it is difficult to proclaim worthy public services to the inhabitants of this country, but if anything defines us, we are eucalyptus, courageous, and obstinate, always seeking a purpose. It's hard to be an amateur sportsman in this town. Alex Chicon, the hillman, had a target. To place a Basque and the Basque People on the top of the field in the sporting field. Even if it's late, we want to congratulate him, and to confess his work, because his fatigue has left him forgotten and remained firm in the pursuit of an end. Chikone will continue to make his way hard and courageous, and though it is difficult, we shall remain firm by our proclamations. Even today, the goal may seem simple, but this peak is costing all the citizens a high degree of health. We have made several contributions and proposals throughout the legislature. Some of them have been accepted from Mr. Darpón's leadership department, but unfortunately they haven't completed it yet. Mr. Darpón seems to want to keep EAE's health services to the top of quality and not to make them registered. It seems that Mr. Darpón and the Department of Health are not going to take the proper responsibility. What we see is that the department doesn't take responsibility. And what we want to make the Department of Health understand is that outsourcing the management of a service does not mean that it has to outsource the responsibility of the public service, in this case of health transportation. Because he, the Department of Health, has to be accountable to the citizenry, he has to be accountable to the citizenry, and that's what we see missing, what he doesn't do. And it seems to confuse the papers. When the management of a service is over, it's all forgotten. We forget all about it and often legality is an excuse. And we're really very worried and it seems to us that it's serious what's happening in medical health. You know, the anomization of the sector, resources, limited resources, the predictivement of human resources, the substitutions are not made, or the workers in the vehicle to replace are used in the field of emergency, also problems for guards, base conditions... And all this, the representatives of the workers working on this field have been introduced to us more than once at the Medical Committee, and this is all of us in quality. And there is nothing more to see than what is happening in the transport program: The endless avenues, the patients of different pathologicalities, are placed together when they are entirely opposite to each other, and so on, etc., etc., etc., etc., etc. We know, we know that companies are going to make benefits, that's what they're doing, and that's fair enough. Companies are for that, but the object of public administration is to offer a public social service, which would require all resources (the inspector, the appropriation... .). It is only to see him at present: 60% is the most economic condition and 40% is the technical condition. Remember, from the 2014 February, emergency medical service is on strike, but how the minimum is 100 percent in emergencies, well, "That's all right." And it is true, I must confess that, as I was at the Medical Committee at the moment, we saw a change of attitude on the side of the Medical Department after the summer, but this change of attitude has not been carried out until now. And we have not seen the thing done in all propositions which have hitherto been admitted. We haven't seen him, and that's what we miss. The autonomical agreement has not yet been enabled, the inspections do not run properly, and so on. And in the meantime, what? Meanwhile, what's going on? What is happening is that the last award has been appealed to the department, and as long as the issue is not resolved, in order for the service to continue to be rendered, the commission of service has to pay 30% more to the companies that continue to work in that sector. But this does not mean improving the quality of service. There is still no comprehensive follow-up, etc., etc.; there is still no improvement in human resources, and, well, we could make an extended list. And then we talk about the optimization of resources and the good management of public money. Hitz asko egiten will say age ematen du, henera, dirua sovereignan daukagula. Iruditzen zaigu ikaragarrizko zentzugabekerian has Murgiltzen station. Yesterday they met yesterday at the table of autonomical agreement, but things seem to be wrong and left for April 11th, on principle. We'd like to figure out from here and April 11 that the Medical Department, along with the Eplegu Department, will do something about it or something. Or should he keep staring? We know it's been on both sides with the delegation and the company and the staff, but we think it can be done more and there's no excuse for legal contacting the firm, because in the end, it's the last director, it's the government. He is the patriarchal, and the government is responsible for the quality of the service and only responsible for it. That's why we decided to introduce the motion, because we think we should continue this matter until we could find a solution. And our goal was to comply with the agreement obtained on April 7th, 2014. When we introduced this lot to ourselves, we put that purpose on ourselves. And besides that, it seems to us that the government should take a turn to improve the organization and management of the sector really. However, you know what this proposition is, because we really think it's a solution, and because we think we all have to make an effort. This time we'll give the government another vote of trust, and that's why we've tried to find a solution to this vortex, which we're entering as wide as possible. So we've been trying to find an agreement, and we've got some of the Eucabertists with the group and even the Social Party, whether this time we're giving him a little extra push, and if we really can get the solution, and whether this helps him get a deal at that table on April 11. We think about the sooner the better for everyone. And let's hope for once we can get the health supply to the top of quality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Passing the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists represent the team. Mrs. Roncal, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u68	Mr. President, members of the legislature, chief officers, good morning to all. Ladies and gentlemen, what brings us here today is, once again, the concern about what is happening in the health transport sector. It is true that we have known this on quite a few occasions, through different appearances in the Health Committee, especially from the representatives of the workers, but also from the department, to give us a general idea of what is happening in the sector. The truth is that we have also debated in the Health Committee and reached previous agreements that are reflected in the Health Committee's agreement of 7 April 2014 and that we have today included in the preamble to our compromise amendment. But we do not want to stay there, simply to approve what we have already approved, because the cuts, the workers' difficulties are there and they are still there. The economic cuts carried out by the contracting companies, because they lower their bid to obtain the award, automatically reduces it to the working conditions of the workers of those companies. And these consequences can also affect the quality of service, first because of deficiencies in the number of ambulances themselves, which means unbearable expectations at times, inadequate care that can lead to harm to the lives of patients. There is also a lack of adequate work equipment (we have been informed of uniforms, hats, insufficient footwear), which can affect both the health of these workers and that of the patients who are then transferred to these ambulances without proper cleaning, aseptic and antisepsis. It is also incorrect the internal organization of the bases where the workers are located, because we have been told about the existence of cross-circulations between the care for cleaning and the asepsis of the working utensils, which is mixed with the cleaning and asepsis of the personal utensils: the bats used by the patients in the same sink are cleaned and with the same rags with which they clean the dishes in which they eat, which seems to us to be absolutely inadequate working conditions. We do not want to continue to list more barbarities, than there are. Therefore, seeking – which is what we are always looking for – the best possible health care for patients and the right to health protection – and we take it up, as I said earlier, in the compromise agreement, our first point requires intensified monitoring and monitoring of the clauses of the agreement, but we also ask the inspection that, as a health centre that it is, and since it depends on the health authority that the Department of Health has, check that a health centre meets the requirements, both in its endowment and its internal organization, to be authorized to maintain a health service. That is why our first point reflects the need for surveillance by the health inspectorate. And finally, the other point really of great dissatisfaction between the sector is the lack of similar working conditions for all workers and is the search for an autonomous agreement. It is true that it is neither the responsibility of the Department of Employment and Social Policy nor the Department of Health to reach an autonomous agreement, but we do want to encourage collaboration between the two departments to seek actions that will help to homogenize working conditions, because, as I say, this is the second major concern of the workers. Finally, I would like to point out that, as I said earlier, the autonomous agreement is not the responsibility of the Department of Health, but the conditions of the competitions. The competition is based on criteria that it accepts, chooses, values and approves the Department of Health, and we hope that economic responsibility, that clauses that value economic conditions are not so important to technical clauses. Because, as you know, the economic valuation, which is so important, encourages the rebates of the companies applying for participation in the competition, and, as we have said many times, that rebate the contracting company that is taking the award, being the cheapest, immediately transfers it in a decrease of quality, both of the conditions of the workers and of the material resources with which the service is provided. That is why I would like to point out that we do want the Department of Health and Employment and Social Policy to agree to participate more actively, first of all, in improving the conditions under which competitions take place and, secondly, to promote all possible actions to achieve the autonomous agreement. Finally, I congratulate all the speakers in the parliamentary groups who have made a great effort to reach this agreement, which can help improve health care and health protection, which is really our ultimate goal. Nothing more, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Roncal. Euscal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u70	Thank you, President, and advisors. And briefly, because there's an agreement, and of course we're not going to add... We all want that agreement, I say the autonomous agreement, and we will certainly continue to call for it to be worked for. We're talking about health transportation. We have decided in this Parliament some explanations, also some complaints, also some approaches from the administration itself, and I believe that we can objectively see that progress is being made. Already the fact that there has been talk of this issue, that there has been contact with the Administration... We also see that the Administration has a willingness to move forward on an appropriate path. And we have seen that some of the conditions have been called into question. We have to bear in mind that there are thousands and thousands of daily services, monthly, that do all kinds of health transport of all kinds, and that, well, it is true that some failed or defective transport can be detected in some case, but I believe that they are the vast minority of what is produced in this health transport in the country. And, of course, we must refer to the facts and complaints that may exist in the Administration, which do not go in line with some of the complaints that arise. I do not think that everything is wrong, but that it is better, and that is our will in relation to health transport: to understand that there have been some problems of service, to understand that there may be some problems between companies and workers, to understand that there are some union demands out there, that also move us as always to Parliament..., but in any case, I believe that the will – and that I have to acknowledge, ours of course, but that of the Administration – I believe it is to continue to move forward, and to make an approach and continue to make an approach in the terms that this initiative says. And we approached it in the April 7 initiative. We will vote in favour of the compromise. One of the points of the initiative of 7 April, in relation to labour reform, was not supported by us; in any case, this approach is there, it was already recorded in that committee and in that approved text, but the two points which describe the initiative put forward by the groups and to which we join, therefore, well, they have to be accepted by us. Of course, there is no doubt that as far as possible, seeing that some of the issues we are talking about can be improved and seeing that this work also depends not only on companies, but on what the Administration does, intensifying, through the health inspection services of the department, such monitoring of compliance with the clauses is never much more. I mean, you have to. It has to be intensified, it may be, but we too understand what is being done. But, in any case, it is necessary to intensify because there is some defect, because there is a failed transport, because there is some condition which is questioned, which is identified and analysed, so that, in the event that the appropriate measures and conditions are not met, the appropriate measures are taken. We have no doubt, and that in the case of health transport as in the case of any other service provided by a company to the health administration (laundries, dining rooms, electricians...), any company that works will have to comply with the conditions, and, of course, they will have to be well audited and inspected. But in any case, to be said to intensify is well said, and we support it. And, of course, to push forward in this area of interinstitutional collaboration... Indeed, the two departments are well called upon to take action to contribute to this homogenization of the working conditions of workers in the health transport sector. And in relation to the autonomous agreement, therefore, it is a logical objective, it is an objective that we are now closer to achieving than we were a while ago, and in that regard we also appreciate the second point of the compromise amendment and say that we will vote in favour. I say again, on one of the issues raised in the no-law proposal of 7 April, we do not agree, but I believe that today the emphasis is on intensifying inspection and achieving that final agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u71	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u72	Thank you, ma'am. Chief bureau, congressmen, good morning to all. On the 5th of February, Mrs. Ubera made an interaction with the chairman of the Epleugu, and we are here discussing this cause of the interpelration. It seems to us that empty interpelation, the chief physician, answered firmly. We've had a similar situation before: Mrs. Uber asked the chief physician about the same matter, the questions of the superficial inquiry, arguments, and the answers of the ladies. And there are two issues to consider. On the one hand, his original text, the text of the motion; on the other, his speech. Your motion text, surprising, in my opinion. For rating it in some way, amazing. And since the amendments from the rest of the groups, I understand that these amendments have brought it a little closer to the reality of health transport, and I am really glad. Your speech? His speech already surprises me less, perhaps because he is a little more accustomed, both to the speech he made in the interpellation and to the speech we have heard today, and to those he has made on some other occasions on this issue. With a clear methodology in your speech, Mrs. Ubera: we are very concerned about this, it brings us an image, this does not work, nothing has been done...; it uses small data as an example that seems to demonstrate this assertion, and stresses, to conclude, "It does not work, it is not done". Mrs. Ubera, from the beginning, this image that you move into a false image, a false image that does not support the slightest analysis. He does not support the analysis today, he does not support the analysis in his inquiry of February 5 to the Sailburu de Emploi, and he did not support the slightest analysis in his requests to attend the Sailburu de Saúde in May and September 2015. And my goal today is to see that evidence. You focus the debate on compliance with the agreement of 7 April 2014, Agreement 65/2014. And what can I tell you about it? For basically two things: that it has been fulfilled and is going to continue to be fulfilled, and that this fulfillment is observed. Two introductory questions. On the one hand, as we all know, health transport is a service that from its inception has always been provided through the recruitment of companies, as it constitutes a provision of the supplementary health portfolio, not of the basic common portfolio. On the other hand, let us focus on the responsibility of the Government, which has it: the responsibility of the Government, its responsibility, is to monitor the delivery of the service and to ensure the quality, quality and quality of the service. What does the agreement to which we have all referred pose? Three questions, three points. First, monitoring the effective compliance with the conditions set out in the specifications; secondly, promoting and channelling the Autonomic Agreement; and thirdly, transitional measures until there is an Autonomic Agreement. It is a majority agreement, unanimously, in points 1 and 2. And what is this agreement talking about? The agreement is primarily about quality of service delivery. And what is quality? Today it is commonly accepted that quality is the result of the interaction of two dimensions: the subjective dimension (what the user wants, its expectations) and the objective dimension (what is offered, the service provided). Following this scheme, you can provide a high quality service and meet with different perceptions of users regarding their satisfaction. To objectivize this subjective perception we will have to perform a statistical projection. Data, Mrs. Ubera. We found two parts of the deal. A first part concerning the verification of effective follow-up and immediate corrective measures in the event of non-compliance. In its objective dimension, it is an adequate delivery, with resources provided, that outweighs accessibility, universal use under conditions of equity, and that is sufficient and sustainable. With quality valued with criteria of objectivity of a service of high use by our citizens, based on specific items: punctuality, speed, security, cleanliness, intimacy, information, treatment received. Data, Mrs. Ubera, data. Data with effective monitoring and control through the work of public officials and public officials in the inspection of health services (public control). Data that have been systematically communicated to all parliamentary groups in committee and in full control. A fact as a summary: half a million (Mr Barrio said a lot), half a million services during 2015, half a million, 500,000 services, 170 complaints; one complaint for every 3,000 services. Data. Conclusion: This service is of high quality and is perceived by citizens, and especially by users, as a service of very high quality. Still, the department continues to work in areas of improvement. The second part of the agreement: the working conditions of the persons providing this service we understand are also part of the quality of the service, and I do not doubt that the quality of the working conditions is another issue for which this Government ensures, in this case in coordination with the Department of Health with the Department of Employment. In relation to this second question...
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u73	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u74	Thank you, ma'am. In relation to this second question, I would like to point out two realities: the starting point, with a high diversity of supplier companies, each with different agreements, which have created a complex scenario in terms of working conditions; and the competition field. This Government does not look elsewhere on this issue, Mrs Ubera, but neither the Department of Health nor the Department of Employment nor the Government are holders in labour relations, however badly you repeat and call them employer, today too. Is the Government responsible for this matter? Of course I do. And what is this responsibility? It is working together to help the legitimate parties, workers' representatives and business representatives reach agreements in line with the parliamentary mandate. Materialized this responsibility in preparatory meetings, meetings with only one party, meetings with both parties, using the technique of intermediation, addressing proposals, saving blocking situations..., that help of a qualified third party of which the Sailburu Toña told us. Data. And on this second part they have also given you data, they have given us data. I remind you of the last meetings of 18 November, 15 December, 15 December, 21 December, 15 January, 16 January, 14 January, 16 January, 20 January, 16 January, 25 January, 16 February, 16. And, after their questioning, meetings on February 17, 16 and February 22, 16. Data that show that the parliamentary mandate is being fulfilled, and that it is being fulfilled with high standards of quality. We all know that quality is a constant goal. That is why we wrote, in introducing our amendment to his motion, in part one, "to maintain the verification of compliance with the provisions contained in documents", and, in part two, "to continue to articulate measures towards the autonomous agreement", in the understanding that the mandate has been fulfilled to this day. But we know that the record of that fulfillment must be maintained. That's why we renew it today, we endorse it with the signature of the fucked text. Without further ado, I would like to take this opportunity to recognize the Government for the fulfilment of this parliamentary mandate and to encourage them, in the assurance that this will be the case, to continue along the same lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u75	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Passing on the answers, Mrs. Ubera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u76	I don't know if it's hard to explain or understand. It is not here that the reality of the EH Collect is to prevail, or that the reality of the EAJ prevails in society. No. It's important here to know the reality of society and to give an answer to this reality. We're here to give answers and solutions. Look, I didn't know him, I didn't know the health supply sector. But I've been interested and worked to meet that sector. And besides, they opened our eyes, the various agents who have come to the Medical Committee several times. And all these operators, all of them different ideology, agree in their diagnosis. The sector has a diagnosis, the government has another diagnosis. Here, I know no one owns absolute truth. But there's gotta be a middle line, right? And are we not able to see and answer that? Well, that's what we're trying to do. And we have clearly and have put it as a purpose in this legislation to improve the sector of health. Que por cyto, cyto, this government has more than once accepted the situation at the Medical Committee. And he admits that the situation is not so good as you would like. And we know that, we know how it is. We have constant resources in our allocation, constantly. Is there an assignment that's not registered? How much money will this government lose? Have the criteria been reviewed? Is there a thorough test done? What do you do about inspections? Now, as long as they're paid, how much more money does the government have to put on the services that are in motion? I said 30%, 30%, which is easy to say. And that money goes where: To improve the conditions of human resources, the means, the means? No, no. And whose responsibility is it? It's fun, it's the health department, it's not the company. One thing is the legality of temporal relationships, okay, there are companies there, but who cares? And we'll have to consume that. I don't know whether the earring or the blind or what happens. I don't know if you need glasses or a machine called Sonotone, but what we need is a little humility, and let's get it right. And I'll tell you clearly, our goal wasn't to publish the management of this sector, it wasn't complicated. What we want is that management really effective and better is good because we know it affects the quality of the service. I know you think EH Collect wants to publish everything. All right, we're on the side of public management, but first of all we want to improve the managements that are currently running. Okay, and that's why we put different suggestions on the table. So, if we've identified some mistakes, some deficiencies... and it is not true that what Mr. Barri first said, complaints, decency are least. We were introduced to all the legal teams, the photographs were here. Well, let's give them a visa, take the job to examine it. We'll see what the situation is. But, well, today, even if there's differences, we've made an effort and I'll agree that we've all made an effort to solve this situation, and that we're able to meet at that table on April 11, where the autonomical agreement is working, to make a deal. We'll all be grateful, but most of all the people will be grateful. And the last one: data, right? Here again is said "data and data." I told you about the data, we've all got the data. But what data has the Medical Department put in the hands of the Medical Committee and the opposition teams, the request request and the various initiatives we've put in. But today, today, the funniest, we have a deal and we'll see if we can get to a solution in April. And if not, we will continue to insist on this legislation until we have solved it.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Ubera. Euskal Group Popula representative. Mr. Barrio, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u78	Yes, President, thank you very much. Indeed, I have also referred earlier to the fact that there is no doubt that the complaints of the trade unions or some of the employees who have come to this Parliament and have put on the table some services which are somewhat unsuccessful, somewhat defective, or with problems even of time. It was a question... I meant that there are no massive complaints on the part of users, there are no important, qualitatively important complaints on the part of users, on the part of the people who use the services, and in that sense it must be recognized that what there is is quite happy, quite well-being with how the services work. That is, if we saw that there were actually complaints, that users, patients reported certain practices... But we see that on that side, which is also relevant, and it must be made clear, the number of complaints is not qualitatively important. It is true that the issues that have been raised to us here, have been moved to us by the trade unions fundamentally, and by the people who work in those companies, some have been striking, of course, because they did not meet criteria of total quality, and in that sense we understand that they can also be dysfunctions, which is what the department and the inspection have to fix. But I believe that, in the end, there is something that makes progress along the right path. The circumstances make Álava, Bizkaia and Gipuzkoa the conditions are somewhat different, and they have been historically, and the way is to make uniform those conditions, to make an autonomous agreement, and I believe we are on the right track. I don't think we should be alarmed... Man – Mrs Ubera said – of course Bildu wants everything to be public, but, of course, we see it day by day, in every debate and every analysis of bills: everything is towards direct public management, and more and more. I think it's the mistrust in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u79	Thank you, Mr. Barrio. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u80	Thanks again. Speaking of realities, indeed, one reality is that today the April 2014 agreement is endorsed, a tool that we understand well and that we continue to understand well. Another reality today is that we see compliance with the agreement, although this agreement (both 2014 and what we renew today) raises the need for constant compliance, as it cannot otherwise be, continuous compliance. Data, Mrs. Ubera tells us. If there's anything the Department of Health gives us in the Health Commission, it's data! It's data. I will not mention the Journal of Sessions, but here it is: data, data and more data, of the Sailburu and its team. Another reality is that quality is still guaranteed. Quality is still guaranteed in the field of verification of the conditions laid down in the documents, and quality is also guaranteed in the field of aid, in the field of the road to this autonomous agreement, without any doubt, Mrs Ubera. And referring to the diagnosis, which he was telling us, he was telling us about a diagnosis, an image that brings the sector, an image that the government brings... a picture of the sector and a picture of the government? There is another image more important than this and that is surely, which is the image of which has been forgotten, of the citizens, of the users. The one about the users. That's the picture. And from humility, but with the numbers, which are so silly, 2015 numbers: satisfaction with service, 93.27% very satisfactory; work performed by workers, 97.54 very good or good; human treatment, human treatment in the provision of that job by professionals, 97.89. That's the other picture, Mrs. Ubera. That's the other image, a real image, and that's where the data reflects it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u81	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Five point in theme list: "As far as I'm concerned, I'm asking you to take a look-out for people who have been given by the Basque People and Amiantians. Discipline and final resolution. The group's turn to make a suggestion. Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz, who is the representative of the Potula team, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u82	Andreak: Good afternoon to you all, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. I present on behalf of the Group... Sorry, I wanted to welcome and thank the members of the Association of Victims of the Amianto de Euskadi, Asviamie, and thank you very much for their presence. And I say that I am presenting on behalf of the People's Group this non-legislative proposal calling on the Basque Government to draw up a plan of prevention and reparation for those affected by asbestos containing measures, deadlines and economic allocation necessary for its implementation. This Government, the previous Government and the previous ones know perfectly well the demands of this association, as we know them in this House. By giving them some data, according to the Association of Victims of the Amianto of Euskadi, between 1965 and 1985, especially around 1974, it was when more asbestos was imported into our autonomous community. There is evidence that by the mid-seventies of the last century it was around 100,000 tons of asbestos. Most buildings built between 1965 and 1985 contain asbestos, either in their building elements or in their installations. Much of this asbestos will have disappeared, but still today we can find it in homes, buildings and industrial facilities. The problem of asbestos affects the Basque population. We are talking about a large number of affected workers, around 6,000 affected workers according to Osalan. Since the association believe that this data is not real; they believe that there is a sub-record of people who are not included in this data, either workers exposed indirectly or occasionally, or environmentally affected by the substance. Nor do we know or know, nor the association, the criteria that Osalan uses to produce this record. It seems that they are based on data provided by companies or mutuals of accidents at work, but these records do not reflect reality. According to Osalan, also in his report on asbestos, the damage of exposure to asbestos has a latency period of between ten and thirty years, he tells us, or even more. Therefore, we are at a crucial time and it requires the greatest efforts to be able to attend to those already registered, and also those indirectly affected by minimum exposure or exceptional exposure, who we doubt are registered and who are out of control. There is a data that powerfully calls attention: according to data from Cepross, Social Security, which collects the number of parts reported by disease group, causative agent and autonomous communities (the data is 2014), in the Basque Country the rate of cancer due to occupational disease, which is essentially asbestos within recognized carcinogens, is 3.28. It triples the average rate of the entire state average rate. Only these significant comparable cases of cancer have been recorded in nine autonomous communities, and the Basque Country is at the head, with a very large and striking difference. This fact, which is indicative, must alert us, and Osalan says so, that within the next five years we will be at the height of this disease. If we already triple the average rate and are not yet at the height, we understand from the People's Group that we need to redouble our efforts to meet the needs of those affected in the best possible way. I am referring to actions that must be launched by the Basque Government, which are part of the demands that the Association of Amicable Persons, as I said before, has already presented to the various governments, also in this House, and many years ago. As I said, the previous Government offered the Association of Amicados the development of an asbestos plan, a plan that – we understand from the People's Group – must put in place measures to repair the damage caused by asbestos to those affected and their families. From the Government there are several measures that can be implemented, and from different departments: to put more alert on asbestos, on those affected, in the actions of the departments, mainly in the areas of Labour, Housing, Health and the Environment. From the Labour Council we understand that the register of companies that have handled asbestos needs to be updated. Only companies dealing with asbestos-free protocols are registered today. Osalan has already warned, in the presentation we have had about asbestos, that asbestos has been found and exposure to asbestos in many companies that are not registered. More emphasis should also be placed on the implementation of the protocols and greater rigour on the lists of workers who may have been exposed to asbestos. We continue to insist on the development of an asbestos map based on the cases detected. This is possible (some say it is not possible), yes it is possible. A map of contaminated soils can be made, also specify in those contaminated soils which are asbestos soils, and a map of asbestos can also be made from the cases detected. We can strengthen information campaigns on this asbestos problem in potentially exposed groups. Increased monitoring of rehabilitation works at risk of exposure to asbestos. Raise sanctions for non-compliance with the protocol in asbestos-free work. From the Health Council we also understand that more can be done: greater coordination with Osalan for the implementation of the post-occupational specific health surveillance protocols for retired workers who have been exposed to asbestos, who believe that the established revisions and protocols are not being made; creation of specific units in the Departments of Pneumology and Digestives; protocol to new cases of asbestos and associated diseases, and, as I told you, greater coordination with Osalan and the Institute of Social Security in the data. Things can also be done in the Housing Department: control of building rehabilitation licenses, and also, in buildings that are abandoned and unknown, what the situation is and whether they actually have levels of contamination or not. There are areas in the Autonomous Community of the Basque Country, and specific points, where the population is afraid of what is in some abandoned buildings. Things can also be done from the environment. Greater control of uncontrolled debris can be done, and, as I told you before, the drawing of the risk map. Therefore, we insist that, as part of the demands made by the association of those concerned to this House, that we meet a demand, which was to work for the creation or possible creation of a compensation fund for those affected, we have made the presentation, and that presentation has had some conclusions, and the conclusions were adopted in this House in June 2015, and now we have another phase, which is the phase that envisages measures for the Basque Government to expand..., which we say does not do anything, but can be expanded and improved. And that is a commitment that I believe we must fulfil, and try to ensure that the records are drawn up and made more rigorously, that they look at more people, that also on the companies there is an important emphasis, as in the buildings built at a certain time and that they are suspiciously going to have asbestos, almost certainly. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, as I have told you, there are a number of issues that we believe are necessary. Amendments have been made from the groups to this initiative, and with the exception of the Socialist Party, which has not mentioned in its amendment, both the Basque Nationalist Group and EH Bildu agree with our idea. The Basque Nationalist group says that a plan must be made for prevention and reparation for those affected by asbestos, says in its amendment; from Bildu they say that this could also be collected in a specific institute, but I think that would be no bigger problem. The Basque Socialist Group says that, well, that Madrid believes the fund, and somehow forgets what can be done in this autonomous community and what can be urged of the Government. And apparently this could have led to a consensus initiative, because if the Basque Nationalist group says we have to do it, we have to move forward in the preparation of a plan for prevention and reparation for those affected by asbestos, it fully coincides with what we have proposed from the People's Group. But what's the difference, ladies and gentlemen? What's the difference? We, the People's Group, propose that this plan be made in the Basque Government. And what does the Basque Nationalist group say? Let the Government of Spain do it! A plan, for what? To tell the Environment what you have to do, to tell Osakidetza what you have to do, to tell Employment and Work what you have to do? Then there is a little bit missing, and it is: do we return the competences to the Government of Spain? Or is it that even days we have to tell Spain to do things to us, and in odds we ask for greater competition? Let's see, Mr. Aiartza is fantastic. It's fantastic. Of course, as a disciplined monk it has no price, but, indeed, I believe that this Government can do things, it must do them, it must expand them, it must deepen them, and I believe that it should have no greater problem in making a commitment to those affected by asbestos. I think we should, we should do, they need it, and it is our obligation and our responsibility as a government with an implementing capacity. Therefore, we do not understand why suddenly the Basque Nationalist group in the compromise amendment already forgets the plan. Forget it, you don't have to make a plan. Not anymore. The case is to look elsewhere, to throw balloons out and to take care of the needs of these affected, and that as a government, and from different areas, we have responsibilities. I hope that you, too, do not know, think it appropriate to support the original initiative. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u83	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Silence, please, you can hear everything. Passing over to the teams that were running the corrections, the Basque Socialists. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u84	Thank you very much, President. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Well, the initiative presented to us today by Mrs López de Ocariz certainly has a non-small virtue, and it is that of redoubling a debate that this House has been holding through a paper for two legislatures, in addition to many other episodes in which the issue of asbestos and the problem arising from it has been dealt with. And I say that the virtue of your initiative is no less because indeed, once the papers have been completed and the report of conclusions has been drawn up, the next step is to do so. As you know, Mrs López de Ocariz, the commission commissioned the translation of the French law of the FIVA, which is the law governing the compensation fund for asbestos victims, which may at a given moment constitute a schematic support of what could be an articulated text, because ultimately the objective and purpose of these papers is to carry forward a legislative initiative aimed at creating a compensation fund for asbestos victims. That is what the victims have asked of us in the first place and in what has coincided absolutely all the appearances that have also taken place at this time in the place of presentation: compensation fund comparable to that which exists in France, Belgium, Italy, the United States, Germany, Sweden, Japan... That is to say, the developed countries that have experienced this problem, as you know, Mrs López de Ocariz, determined that the formula for compensation and compensation for the damage was finally raised in those terms. And we, having listened to each other, as you know, have chosen the French model, which, moreover, by tradition and legal culture, is the one that could best apply to our legal system. Indeed, in all appearances there have also been other proposals, and there have been other requests and contributions that are undoubtedly of interest. I know that the Basque Strategy for Safety and Health at Work 2011-2014 did contain aspects related to a Basque asbestos plan in which a number of things were developed. I do not know, today, how the Government is handling these issues, I must admit, but I understand that it has been continuing all the issues relating to the matter. I have heard from you and also from the victims that there is a problem, it seems, for the registration of exposed workers to be registered, but I understand that this problem rests on the fact that registration has to be voluntary, because then those workers will be subjected to medical tests, some of them complex, and their personal consent is needed. And I understand that that is the objective reason why there are some applications that have not been admitted. But what I'm going to do. What I am going to do is that the work that this House has done, whose fundamental objective is to carry out a legislative initiative; legislative initiative that has to be moved by elevation to the Congress of Deputies, because these funds, as we have seen, have a state character (or national, as you prefer)... And, therefore, what you propose of prevention to the affected..., prevention is no longer possible, because the affected are, and already little prevention can have, but we are talking about reparation. But the reparation, the compensation for the damage suffered, far exceeds the possibility that it can be done in an autonomous sphere, and I believe that this is easy to understand for many reasons of all kinds: the very rotation of the workers, the difficulty to clarify where they were able to contract the disease or where they were exposed... These funds have been created with state scope, and therefore what emerges from this House is the possibility, after concluding with all those work, with those reports, and with the unequivocal conclusion that such reparation is only through the creation of such a fund... That is why we have signed a compromise agreement with the Nationalist Party; a compromise agreement that is only possible because we had an amendment. Because it seemed to me to understand that he said that we had no amendment; we do have it, and that sense... Well, I got it wrong. But that has empowered us to make a compromise amendment with the Basque Nationalist Party. In general terms, we agree that, even if there are other actions to be taken, even if it can be improved on issues relating to safety and health at work or preventive measures, you know that asbestos is no longer marketed or manufactured. Therefore, all measures that were in place and that were also normative on these aspects have been outdated, because they are neither manufactured nor distributed. The problem now has to do primarily with asbestos-free work, and that is also accompanied by a very comprehensive set of rules: technical notes on prevention, the regulations themselves which rest on the Risk Prevention Act, and then the protocols that exist. Finally, there are a number of activities that, of course, will be improved, but to what I invite you, Mrs López de Ocariz, is that we do not miss the shot, that we do not blur, let us say, what must be the nuclear objective of all this task that we have carried out over this time, and that is that legislation that creates a fund of that nature is being carried out. And that is why the compromise agreement that we have with the Nationalist Party urges the Government of the State to draw up a bill (probably the Government of the State will not make a bill, which is why we will need to carry out this initiative) aimed at setting up a compensation fund for those affected by the damage caused by asbestos, and it is proposed as a scheme to develop the FIVA system currently implemented by the French State, and it agrees to refer the opinion adopted by this House with the conclusions to Congress. We believe that this is where we must, let us say, nuclear our efforts and achieve the great consensus. It is not an obstacle, in fact, for other activities to be carried out or improved. It's been requested by other groups. I don't know at the moment exactly... he hasn't even asked the department any specific questions about, anyway, how many plans they've targeted and stuff like that. I understand that all of this is moving forward. Where we have wanted to turn the effort and focus is precisely on this demand, this demand so widely requested, where so many affected here and there expect a response from the public authorities, and that is why we have come to this transaction. It is not an obstacle to agree on some of the things that you have said, but it seems to us to be fundamental nuclear and to specify the purpose of all this work that we have done, and they are set out in this compromise amendment. Nothing more.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u85	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. Unite the EH team as representative. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u86	Thank you, ma'am. Chief physician, ladies and gentlemen of the legislature, good noon. Good afternoon, too, to the representatives of the Asviamie Society, and welcome to the meeting. On the 26th of June, 2015, we accepted the results of the amiant argument in the whole meeting, but on that day we observed that it was a minimum arrangement for us. At that time, we said that we should make our requests, not just the ones addressed to the government of Madrid, but the ones that were asked to be responsibilities. That's what we said eight months ago, and we're confirming it this time. It's a pity that we've been in this legislature for five years we've wasted our time doing our own job for five years and accepting a text, and, it seems, some people think our responsibility ends there. But it's not EH Collect's attitude. We certainly have been very short on this subject. After the power is over, if we don't take action ourselves, it's over, and that's what some people want to do after they see the medium signed. And we are very clear that today again we are talking about an extremely important issue, and we find it irresponsible to throw balloons out and ask other governments to take steps to keep our conscience very calm. We have repeated this on several occasions, on many occasions: until 2030 the number of sick and sick (sick, who also have and will have them) will continue to increase, because the period of latency, as another spokesman has said, of this silent murderer is between twenty and thirty years. It is a disease that kills slowly, but kills, and the only option for the sick and the sick is to go to court, knowing that it is an expensive and slow process, but today they have no alternative. People who die before they are recognized for their occupational disease, as is the last case of ArcelorMittal's worker in Olaberria. No, they have no choice: fight for a professional disease's record, fight for the result of the unemployment of the retired workers, and demand the claim to be remunerated. And we can't leave them alone in this fight, or waste more time, as we said before, because we've been five years to get little. Can we say to the Amynant victims that there has been achievements in Araban, Bazazia, and Gipuzia? No. Where are the resolutions 21 on report in the main report? Nowhere. On the other hand, we know that Osalan gave the founding of the Onkological at 45,500 euros, for the project of research in the National Prevention, in order to be able to study the EAE populations. Last year, at the committee, we expressed our concern, in our opinion, because this project was in danger, and so we showed it. We don't have any news of the project of study today, and we feel that money, time, and hope are lost. So, I don't have any answers, no solutions. I'm sorry I didn't have any commitments to finish the project he started with. Therefore, EH Collect is clear: if we do not take the proposition ourselves, we shall do nothing. And that's exactly what we're asking for today, for your homework. This time we accepted the original proposal described by PP, which required an observation to the people who had been given to the equivocation of the Eucommene and the amiants. There's a meeting with this proposal EH, but it's true that we're going beyond our full corrections. That's why we think it's necessary to create an amianta eiscal high school. And we're not the only ones we think, because we must remember that here it was unanimously accepted to create this high school, and it's in the report of the power. We therefore consider it interesting to set up the Basque Institute of Asbestos to draw up this plan of prevention and reparation for the people affected by asbestos requested by the People's Party, and we also believe that this Institute should control the registers, the installed asbestos, and undertake epidemiological studies, for example; a reference centre that would combine synergies to carry out control actions, among other things. But in this case the fundamental thing is to repair the people concerned, because that is, today, the most urgent thing. And it is true that, although we believe that this management has to be done through an institute of its own, the important thing is that it be done. Right now, how isn't as important as what. But it seems that today, thanks to the PNV and the PSE, what is going to be adopted here is quite different. You simply refer to the Government of Spain what was adopted in the paper, and you urge it to draw up a bill that aims at this compensation fund, which we and we also called for in that paper, and which has also been adopted here unanimously. Therefore, you come today to approve something that we have already approved in this House (unanimously, I insist), to further delay this issue over time and to hold others accountable. We accepted 21 different solutions in power, and, strictly speaking, with regard to the essence, we agreed on the resolutions 20 and 21. "We propose that Congress should be founded upon this ground, and a number of works may be established in order to regulate the mutual agreement of all the questions which we have just pointed out. "The conformity of making a law for the finances and for the production of a composition is also explained." What you're planning is accepted, and we're sure you have something to do with this case. That's the criterion that separates us. We are prepared before the Courts to make amends for the victims for a legal proposition, and we shall do so, and those who are ready to go with us in that way. But after we see today's deal, we have doubts. The sick with the storks can no longer wait, and they are not worth our turning back on this legislature. We've seen before that we can't leave them alone in this fight. They need our help, and it's okay. Therefore we will say no to the medium which you have signed, not by content, but because it is a repetition and a manifest imprudence, so that we will maintain our full correction. That's all, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u88	Thank you, ma'am. The Chief Department, lords and gentlemen of Asviamia, members of the legislature, all good days. We have this proposition as usual brought by Mrs. lópez of Ocariz. We gave our support to the judgment, which was unanimously admitted to the whole meeting on the 25th of June, 2015. The podence of the consequence of the use of the stork made a report of the affairs of the country, which IX. and X. The effects of this report are received in the legislature. And we supported ourselves without rheumatism, because we thought that this vision marks the way, the long way to do it. We believe that this proposition is necessary for a change of reality. And we have given our unreserved support to the fight against a cruel change in the reality that has generated and unfortunately will continue to generate unjust, affected and innocent victims in the coming years. I do not understand, Mrs López de Ocariz, what kind of a reservation, yours or your party, responds to this initiative that you have made, and more so when I saw you work, when I saw your involvement in this presentation. (By the way, I also think you are a fantastic parliamentarian.) What I do understand is that this initiative has two effects at the outset: it blurs the work and conclusions of the paper, and, in my opinion, it hinders that path that marks the paper, it makes it much longer and with greater difficulties. I just don't get it. That report, that of the paper, details a change in reality, and certainly a change in reality in a very short period of time: from a miracle product used massively, to an extremely toxic product, with thousands of people sick or in a state of latency. A change in reality, a drastic change in the needs of those affected, their families, people in latent state. The whole society, in short, needs a response from the institutions. The prohibition in the production, marketing and use, in addition to the precautions and precautions in the withdrawal of existing asbestos, as well as the monitoring and health care of those affected and the investigation of this disease, in our case and in our community, mainly through the dedication of professionals and professionals of Osalan and Osakidetza, in coordination... In other words, records are being checked, health protection, asbestos control installed, epidemiological studies are being carried out. All of these, although essentially necessary and to be very positive (note that there are still countries such as Cuba, China, Russia, Brazil and many others where it is not prohibited and is still being manufactured and used), he said that, although necessary and positive measures, they are not enough for a society that wants to be seen as solidarity and advanced. In this scenario this presentation was born in the last legislature, aiming to analyze the possible creation of a compensation fund for those affected by exposure to asbestos, the study and analysis of its suitability, and the benefits of its creation. After the analysis, the study, we already have the result, we already have the opinion, which, as has been said here, we approved unanimously. A unanimous response from this Parliament to the insufficient response of the State (insufficient response by the State in its competence); a unanimous response from this Parliament to a new reality, where we must recognize, value and thank the contributions of the participants. Appearances that have formed a complex and complete vision of reality and necessity since the contribution of their own vision: the vision of the affected and their families, the vision of trade unions, businesses, health professionals, researchers, legal professionals, and the Administration as well. All this combined with continued and coordinated work by parliamentary groups throughout these two legislatures, which have pioneered in the State, have decided to address one of the most serious issues facing thousands of workers, workers' families and citizens. And I sincerely believe that with his initiative he discourages all these people (I sincerely believe so); people who consider it necessary to create a compensation fund that serves to compensate those affected, in part (they will never be fully compensated), the damage suffered by exposure to asbestos in the past. From our parliamentary group we continue to consider this issue as a matter of justice for the victims. That is why we continue to propose, through this agreement, to the competent institutions of the State the creation of this fund; a fund similar, as Mr Itxaso has said, to the French FIVA fund. Our agreement has been given by coincidence of approaches. I did not read the amendments as you read them, Mrs López de Ocariz. And I would like to thank Mr Itxaso for the possibility of this closed agreement. No more, and with the memory of the victims, eskerrik asko.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u89	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. The turn of the group that hasn't issued any corrections. He won't say a word. We'll go back to the answer shift. Mrs. Lopez de Ocariz, representing the Potional Group. Your word.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u90	andreak: Yes. Mr Itxaso, I was told that the amendment which you have agreed says that the report of the presentation, the report adopted in this plenary, will be sent to the Government of Spain, and that also in the second point they tell the Government of Spain to draw up a bill for the creation of the fund. I sincerely believed that this paper report had been sent to Congress, because it was agreed, that once passed it was sent to Congress, but eight months later we found that we did not send the report to Congress, and eight months later we realize that we have not yet translated the text of the French law, which will be the model for drafting this bill to Congress. And they tell me that you have all the interest in creating the fund as soon as possible. Well, honestly, we've lost eight months. But, well, everyone has their time, right? And Mr. Aiartza... Honestly, Mr. Aiartza, it's not either the fund or a plan of action. It's two complementary things. Because, look, I have the document that in its day presented to us the association of affected by asbestos, and it said: point number 1, application of protocol, measures for the Labour Council and for Osalan, measures to improve, point a); point b), to the Health and Osakidetza Council, a relationship of things to improve; to the Housing Council, and also for municipalities, another series of things to do; to the Environment Council, another series of things to do... And then he said to the Basque Parliament, yes, and in the Basque Parliament he said to make a presentation to see what is the possibility or the means to create the compensation fund. But they are complementary things; they are not one thing or the other. I don't think it's that hard to understand this, I don't know! I honestly think it's pretty simple. And of course there are things to improve, Mr. Aiartza. I know that you are not going to recognize it, because you never recognize it, I have never seen you make a small question to the action of the Government. And weak favor does the government, weak favor, because the government must sometimes also be activated to do things, and you weak favor does it with that. Therefore, I think that on the research issue we have a project funded by Osalan parado (para-ra-do), we have buildings in many parts of the Autonomous Community, in many points, that we would already like someone to take the initiative..., because the municipalities do, but in the Basque Government they do not know, nobody answers what to do, how to act to analyze that building and what it contains, and that we do not know the consequences it is having in the environment. You should know that there are situations like that, and if you go to Environment "No, it's not mine," if you go to Housing "No, because it's not mine," if you go to Health "No, neither." Hey! Some determination will have to be made in the face of certain needs, and they are not one or two, they are many points. Therefore, when we talk about the rehabilitation protocol it is one thing, and the attention to buildings that are in disuse, because it is also another issue that nobody touches at all, there it is standing. And there's asbestos, and when you touch it, then it will have consequences, if you don't know before what's going on. And there is also environmental pollution. And with those affected, or possible affected, what happens? Therefore, to say that we do everything here and we do well seems to me to be an exaggeration, because we are not perfect, and, even if the Government is of the PNV, it is not perfect either. I know that it gives you a special status to be nationalists, but you make the same mistakes as those of the People's Party, those of the Socialist Party and other parties. They're human. Thankfully, they're human and they make mistakes. And that is why we have to tell the Government that sometimes it has to engage more in certain actions for the needs of citizens of our autonomous community. And I think this is not a ballad theme, because something as important as the life, the life of some people, that are growing in number is at stake. Nothing more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u91	Eskerrik asko, López de Ocariz andrea. Basque Socialists represent the group. My lord, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u92	Mrs López de Ocariz, I am not much into chauvinism, but if you see in the Journal of Sessions the appearance of those affected that took place, they recognize that here we are more advanced than in other parts of Spain. So, that does give us at least some authority, in the sense of saying, well... That there are many things left to do, that everything you say is true as to whether it can always be improved in those aspects? Of course I do. He has talked about the rehabilitation protocol, but knows that these protocols are also associated with very demanding regulations on the execution of asbestos-free work, or where the presence of asbestos occurs in works. And not complying with the enforcement regulations obviously places the authors out of the norm. The institutions cannot be blamed for this. Mrs Blanco, you may think so, but we are not trying to throw balloons out, because the sources of funding for a fund of that nature have to be, let's say, made right where responsibility arises, and I ask you: who allowed imports of asbestos into Spain? It was not an autonomous government, it was a government of the nation. Who has exclusive competence over labour legislation and, therefore, also over prevention? The State. So, there's a responsibility there. Who has financial responsibility for occupational diseases? The mutuals. And, therefore, we understand that it is not a question of throwing balloons out or of taking away tasks or responsibilities from the Basque Government, but rather of placing certain things in their proper place. And one of them, a fund of this nature, usually has a state character where it has been carried out. That is therefore the reason for our approach. It does not exclude that other measures can be taken, measures that will logically improve over time, by the control this Parliament gives to the executive, etc., and also, of course, with the help of other institutions, notably municipalities, which are the ones giving the works licenses. Because there is indeed a casuistic that I could give to talk a lot, but when I in the previous speech wanted to clarify what our idea is, at least, that the asbestos issue actually gives a lot of itself. In fact, when we proposed the creation of the paper we did not subject it to any deadline, because we have already seen that in the previous parliamentary term it ended without having been able to give concrete expression, because this gives much of itself. But it gives so much of itself that we could indeed lose ourselves in a very broad debate, in the end, of a marked technical nature on the other hand, and neglect what is the fundamental claim of those affected, which is this, that of the creation of the fund. And we believe that this House, as I have also said at first, that we are a community that has a certain advantage over others, should be prestigious in its tasks precisely by taking that initiative to the right place. That's what encouraged us, and not anything else.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u93	Thank you, Mr. Tachaso. EHGG rep. Mrs. Blanco, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u94	Thanks again. We'd like to report two questions to Mr. Ichaso and Mr. Adarz. Well, Mr. Ichaso hasn't said a word again, has run out of her two shifts. Let's do it anyway. Do you think the victims of the amiant are secondary citizens? Because that's the effect we draw today. You said no every time we proposed a proposition about the amianto in this law. They deny the poor management of the grant allocated by the Basque Government to the Onkologiko research project. We'll see what's left of that. They commit themselves to the sick and the sick and to association in matters that do not materialize, do not carry out. And they reject amendments to the budgets that we put forward by other groups, by which we wanted, in some way, to improve the situation as long as that compensation fund is achieved – if one day it is achieved –; in a transitional way, we said, to improve that situation. But you vote against it. That's right, they agree to subsidize petanque, football or chess teams. That is why I ask you whether these citizens are victims to you and are second-rate citizens. With the amendment you have signed, I am sure we agree, Mr Itxaso! If this is what we approved in the paper! What is happening is that you are now urging the Government of Spain to draw up a bill for the creation of that compensation fund. Let's see, but are we not left in that paper and in that committee that we were going to do here, through a bill, a bill before the courts? Then why do they urge the Madrid government to do nothing! To a non-government, because right now there is no government. And then they agree to refer the agreement of this paper to the Congress of Deputies. But isn't it sent back already? It's been eight months! And what do you get out of that? Nothing, they don't get anything. Nothing new at least. That's why we said that it doesn't take away so that in the meantime here, under our competence and under our responsibility, we can also do other things. And finally, one more question to EAJ: What's the commitment about this thing that you think you're supposed to be? What is it? You didn't say. What do you think you're doing? What can we do in this legislature to help these victims? That's what I ask myself. We believe that they deserve more than just to attend to them properly every time they come to this Parliament to be with all the groups, hoping that we will tell them something new, which unfortunately we do not. They deserve more than our understanding, our affection and our solidarity. They deserve that, since we are their political representatives, we should do something for them and for them, in addition to placing duties on the Government of the Spanish State, which, I repeat, is not there at the moment. And, of course, what they don't deserve under any circumstances is that we take their hairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Blanco. Eubertarians represent the team. Mr. Akiancia, your word is yours.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u96	Thanks again. Mrs López de Ocariz, the initiative is yours, center it. Read your justification. Are you telling us about the paper, yes or no? He's telling us about the paper. He's telling us about the paper, yes. You change the playing field for us. You change the playing field for us. Are we talking about the paper, yes or no? Yes, on his initiative we talk about the paper. And we are proposing our amendments on the basis of the initiative you are proposing. A reference date; since we talk about competencies and those issues, a reference date to our nearby environment. A few dates. In 1996, the ban on asbestos in the French State. In the countries of northern Europe it was quite earlier, but something about our environment: 1996, ban on asbestos in the French State. The Basque Autonomous Community cannot prohibit asbestos, the use of asbestos. We don't have that competition. Nor do we have, in 1996 or today, powers that we should have in accordance with our Statute (which is in relation to what I was told earlier). In 1996, the beginning of the Aznar Government. Why isn't there a ban? In 1996, why is there no ban? In 2002, six years later, a ban on asbestos in the State, six years later than in the French State. Six years late. How many more affected in six years? How many more infected in six years? In 2002, the same year, the FIVA fund was launched in France. Those affected in France, in 2002, ceased to suffer their pilgrimage by the courts. Ask those affected here. In 2016, there is still no compensation fund in the state. Fourteen years late. Fourteen years late, Mrs López de Ocariz, regarding our surrounding environment, as you like to say. And you're trying to keep accumulating delays? I don't understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u97	Thank you, Mr. Akianz. Now that the discussions are over, we'll make a vote. First Point: "Mution, introduced by Jule's Arzuga Gumuzius EH Collectors, concerning the restoration of the refusal of this people to NATO." We'll put the original text of Mr. Azuga's original motion into the vote. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 21; the opponents are 26; the whites are 0; the abstainments are 27.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u98	So he didn't accept it. Next, we vote for the full correction of the Basque Groups. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 9; the opponents are 64; white, 0; abstenation, 1.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u99	So he didn't accept it. Next... Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u100	President, I would ask for a point vote on the amendment to the PNV. Thank you. The first point, and the other two, please, if possible.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u101	Can you vote on points? Yeah. Okay, sorry, number one... , and then two and three. We'll vote for the first point. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: in the councils, 72; votes given, 73; supporters 48; opponents 25; white, 0; abstentions 0,0,0,0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u102	First point is approved. Next, we'll vote for two and three points. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 25; the whites are 0; the abstainations are 22.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u103	Thus two and three points have been accepted. Second point on the subject list: "The other proposition of the lawmaking by the Socialists of Euscal, about the strategic plan of the euscal public school." We're going to vote for the Basque Socialists and the EH Collectors' semi-correction signed. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters, 37, contrarys, 27; white, 0; abstainations, 10.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u104	So it's been accepted to the middle-line correction. Third point in theme list: "A proposition of the law of Euscal, as made by Populous Groups, about learning foreign languages." We're going to vote for the Euscal Populars, the Euscal Sozialists and Misto-UPyD media corrections signed by the teams. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 26; the opponents are 48; the whites are 0.0; Abstenations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u105	So we're not allowed to rectification in the middle of the line. Next, we vote for the full rights of the US patriots. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 27; the opponents are 47; white, 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u106	And so it is not agreed that the eucipators should have the full correction of the party. Forth point on the theme list: "Motion, Ubeka Ubera Aranz and EH Team Members, about worthy conditions of work and autonomical compact." This is EH and the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists, and we vote for the middle-line correction signed by the Eubertarians. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes are 74; the supporters are 74; the opposites are 0; white, 0; 0; abstations are 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u107	It has been unanimously accepted to the correction of the medium. Five point in theme list: "About asking for an account of people made by the Basque People as well as by the Populous Society." We're going to vote for the original text of the Euscalal Potula proposal. We can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: the votes given at the meeting are 73; the votes given, 74; the supporters are 31; the opponents are 43; the whites are 0.0. Absencesion is 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u108	Original text was not accepted as a result. Next, we'll vote for the middle-term correction of the Basque Socialists and the Eucalists. You can vote. [[Pause]] After the vote, the result was this: votes given at the meeting, 73; votes given, 74; supporters 44; contraries, 30; white, 0; abstations, 0.
ParlaMint-ES-PV_2016-03-10.u109	So the middle-line correction has been accepted. Since the list of subjects has run out, I put an end to the whole meeting. It was two and forty-four in the afternoon.
