ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in our weekly work programme of the National Assembly the following point: Second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Export Control of Defence and Double-Use Products and Technologies. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017, the bill was adopted in the first vote on 13 October 2017. Please vote. They voted 163 MPs: 154, none, abstentioned 9. The motion is accepted. Messages: - On 6 December 2017, the National Assembly was granted, developed and adopted by the Economic and Social Council an opinion on the subject: "Potential, social, economic and environmental consumer effects of the general economic and trade agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part." The material is provided to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Environment and Water and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, and is available to the Members of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute received information about gross domestic product in the third quarter of 2017: The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE EXPORT CONTROL OF PRODUCTS RELATED TO THE RECEIVED, AND OF ARTICLES AND TECHNOLOGIES WITH DOUBLE USE. Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u2	A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products, No 702-01-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017, adopted at the first vote on 13 October 2017. The Law on export control of defence products and dual-use products and dual-use products is amended and supplemented by the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u3	Colleagues, please take your seats and let's keep this room quiet! Are there any statements on the name of the Law? I can't see. I vote on the name of the Law which the Commission supports. They voted 159 MPs: 159, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u4	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1. ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1: (a) point 2 is repealed; (b) c. 5 the words "and a witness' shall be deleted; (c) points 6 and 8 are repealed. 2. In para. 2, p. 2 words. 2, 4-11,13 and 14 4-7, 9-11, 13 and 14
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u5	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made which the Commission supports. Vote 158 MPs: for 157, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u7	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 2. Vote 156 MPs: for 155, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 3. Vote 151 MPs: for 151, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following 1. In para. 1, t. 2 words. 2, 4-11, 13 and 14 4-7, 9-11, 13 and 14. 2. In para. 2: (a) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. for foreign nationals, an equivalent document issued by the State of permanent residence of the person, and for the Bulgarian citizens, the circumstances of the criminality of the persons shall be established; (b) point 6 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u11	Paragraph 4 statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made which the Commission supports. They voted 144 MPs: for 144, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Chapter 2, Section II is created. 17a: Art. 17a. (1) For the issue of a licence, a certificate for a recipient and a certificate of registration, the Interdepartmental Council shall provide information by official means from the respective territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency for the absence of liquid and required obligations of the persons under art. Art. 14, art. Art. 15, art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 1 and Art. 1 17, para. 1 and 2. (2) The circumstances concerning the criminality of the persons under art. 14, 15, 16, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 17, para. 1 applicants for a licence, a recipient certificate and a certificate shall be established in a professional capacity. Foreign nationals are required to be granted an equivalent document issued by the State of permanent residence of the person equivalent to a criminal record. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u13	Guys, please keep your voice down! Paragraph 5 statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made which the Commission supports. Vote 151 MPs: for 151, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u14	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20, para. 1, t. 2 shall be added at the end, or the person referred to in Article 2. 5, t. 1 does not meet the requirements for reliability and economic stability
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u15	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made which the Commission supports. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u16	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38, para. 1 sentence first the words.. 1, 2, 5-10, 13 and 14 1, 5-7, 9-10, 13 and 14 The circumstances concerning the criminality of persons shall be certified in a professional capacity. Foreign nationals are required to be granted an equivalent document issued by the State of permanent residence of the person equivalent to a criminal record.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u17	Paragraph 7 statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made which the Commission supports. They voted 145 MPs: for 145, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u18	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the person referred to in Article 3 shall be added at the end. 37 does not meet the requirement for economic stability or the persons referred to in Article 37. 14, para. 1, t. 5 have been convicted by an entry into force of a judicial act for a common criminal offence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u19	Paragraph 8 statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made which the Commission supports. The Commission shall also support the text of the importer. They voted 134 MPs: 134, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u20	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "receipts" shall be added to the application under art. 14, para. 1, t. 1 and in the accompanying documents. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The registered person shall be obliged to submit to the Ministry of Economy no later than 60 days from the submission of the application under para. 1, the required documents referred to in Article 1. 14 related to the change, and a document for a fee paid under art. 71, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 3. In para. A sentence 2 shall be created: The entry of a change in the register and the issue of an up-to-date registration certificate shall be made only in the case of a change in the data entered in the register under art. 44, para. 2 or in a issued registration certificate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u21	Paragraph 9 statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made by the Commission in favour. They voted 136 MPs: for 136 against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u22	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u23	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of the division which the Commission supports. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u24	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... The procedures for issuing licences, recipient certificates and registration certificates shall be completed in accordance with the new order at the date of entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u25	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u26	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I take the floor to express my opinion on the Law voted today. In recent years Bulgaria has seen significant growth in the production of weapons, equipment, dual-use goods. Most of the companies and factories have a full capacity until 2019. From the meetings and conversations I have had with the people in the industry, with the new candidates, they are happy that such a Law is adopted in the Bulgarian Parliament. I am pleased that both opposition and ruling are united in allowing for the reduction of administrative burdens and those willing to work under a more relaxed regime, to be able to obtain appropriate authorisations and to succeed in their activities. I wish that in the future we would be as united as we were these two days when Peter Kanev reported and congratulated him. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Do you think there are lines to Mr. Panchev's statement? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the version made which the Commission supports. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u28	..................................................... The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u29	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote § 11, which the Commission shall support. 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal has been accepted, and with this the Bill has been passed. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u30	Colleagues, on behalf of the leadership of our Commission, I would like to thank you for your extremely active participation these two days in the five laws that our Commission has presented to you. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u31	Declaration on behalf of the group Mr. Velchev, come in. Then the procedure requested by Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u32	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I start with the declaration, I want to congratulate on behalf of GERB all students who are present and former and their teachers and wish them many successes in their field! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! On December 10th, the world celebrated the International Human Rights Day. On that day in 1948, the UN General Assembly adopted a comprehensive Declaration of Human Rights, which was the first international act of fundamental importance in the area of human rights. It launches a new concept of international law, focusing on human rights. For the first time in it are recorded world-class rights, the bearer of which is the individual. The need for such a document to point to fundamental human rights is felt most strongly after the discovery of the crimes against humanity committed by the Nazis during World War II. Already in the preamble to the declaration, Member States state their determination to raise respect for human rights to the highest level, because this is the safest way to avoid subsequent wars and aggression on the international stage. The aim of the Declaration is to ensure a common measure of human rights and fundamental freedoms and to serve as a standard for which all peoples and countries should strive. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights lays the protection of these rights outside the context of the national state and makes them a universal property.............................................................................................. The equality of everyone and respect for human rights contribute to the balance in society. Their guarantee is not only ethically justified but is a real pledge for peace and prosperity. Criterion is for a stable democracy, both as legal guarantees by the state and as opportunities for defending these rights by members of society. In this sense, civil society cannot exist unless autonomy is guaranteed and only the value of the human personality. The issue of human rights occupies an important place on the agenda of all countries, and today it is particularly necessary to emphasise the role and importance of the first human rights protection document, which later became the basis of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. Human rights, democracy and the rule of law are fundamental values of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted in 1991 lays down the most important European standards in the area of protection of citizens' rights. Bulgaria has ratified all major international conventions related to human rights and freedoms. As a member of the European Union, the state policy of the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of human rights is aimed at ensuring equality of all Bulgarian citizens regardless of their ethnicity, religion or social orientation, equal rights and opportunities of women and men, protection of the rights of the child and vulnerable groups in the Bulgarian society, continuation of the processes of integration of the Roma population and its active involvement in public life. The protection and respect for human rights is and must be shared care and responsibility not only at all levels of government, but also of all citizens. This requires knowledge and respect for the rights guaranteed by our Constitution and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The Republic of Bulgaria actively opposes xenophobia, racial discrimination, religious intolerance, hate speech and other modern forms of discrimination. There is nothing more dangerous for a society, especially today, than intolerance and intolerance, than hatred for different thinking people, for different ethnicities, religions and cultures. After a few weeks, we are taking the helm of the European Presidency a good chance to show Europe that Bulgaria as part of the Balkans is not the powder keg, but is an example of tolerance. For many years Bulgarians, Turks, Roma, Armenians, Jews coexist in peace and understanding in Bulgaria. There is respect and acceptance of the rich variety of cultures and traditions between different religions, each religion enriches our society in a unique way. Ladies and gentlemen, today draws attention to the importance and intransigence of the universal principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights "Human dignity, freedom, equality and brotherhood." Driven by the belief that the Union makes the power of the motto and the future European presidency of our country, let us walk together on the path of agreement, security and peace! And may God protect Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. Mrs. Angelova for procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u34	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure to extend the deadline by another three weeks, the maximum of the bill on payment services and payment systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u35	Please vote on the extension procedure. They voted 124 MPs: 120, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I'm calling a recess. 11:00. I'm in control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u36	Colleagues, we're moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Because Minister Karakachanov is at a meeting with the Prime Minister, we will move the order and its point to become second. Minister Goranov will answer first. No new requests have been received for the period from 1 December 2017 to 7 December 2017. Written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Yavor Bojankov and Stoyan Mirchev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov. There is a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Mr. Antonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u37	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before the declaration, let 8 December always bring us positive energy, enthusiasm, good mood, for each of us and a little sadness in the past student years. I would like with my colleagues from Coalition for Bulgaria to congratulate all young people who have chosen to continue their education at the Bulgarian universities. To thank their teachers for defending the role of knowledge and science, despite all changes and reforms in the system. Dear students, be healthy, stubborn, daring and brave in your dreams and ready for the challenges of time! And as sung in the student anthem: Let's have fun while we're young! Happy holiday and many powers and successes in the upcoming session! Declaration by the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for Bulgaria..... on the occasion of the 140th anniversary of the liberation of Pleven. Bulgarian history has dates and places that are a significant symbol of national ups and victories, events that give us a reason for pride, dignity and optimism. December 10, 1877 and the Pleven Epic are one of those glorious moments in the dramatic Bulgarian history, filled with heroism and self-sacrifice in the name of the free development of the Bulgarian people and state. 140 years ago, Pleven was destined to become a place of the most severe and prolonged battles of the Russian-Turkish Liberation War. Five months ago these bloody events caught the attention of the entire European public. The battle for the liberation of the city is the most important military operation to determine the outcome of the war. By Pleven, the feat of thousands of blonds, Romanians, Ukrainians, Belarusians, Poles, Finns and Moldovans broke the resistance not only of Osman Pasha, but of the entire Ottoman Empire. The victory on 10 December 1877 opened the way to Sofia, the road to San Stefano, the road to the revival of the Bulgarian state after five centuries of Ottoman power. As heirs of these great men, who gave our lives for our freedom, we all have the duty and responsibility to keep the memory of their work and to preserve 10 December 1877 forever in our national memory. The victory battle for Pleven is a huge step towards Bulgarian independence. The Pleven Epic and all other heroic battles during the war undoubtedly and forever remain not only in our history, but also in the treasury of the Bulgarian epic, literature and consciousness, and hence in our sense of spiritual proximity and community with Russia and the peoples who helped the Bulgarian freedom. The 140th anniversary of the glorious Pleven Epic gives us the opportunity again to pay tribute and gratitude to the thousands who died in the liberation war, which in itself is a great historical act, which resulted in the fourth Slavic state of New Bulgaria appearing on the map of Europe free and independent, having experienced many sufferings for centuries. We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for Bulgaria offer our most sincere respect and deep worship to the heroic feat of wars and victims in the Pleven Epic. It is a lesson in patriotism that teaches us sacredly to remember and cherish the bright covenants of our ancestors, who have paid with their blood to have Bulgaria. Glory to all who gave their lives for Pleven and for the freedom of our country! Bow to the eternal memory of heroes! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL Vladislav Goranov will be the first to respond to a question by the National Representative Rumen Vassilev Gechev about the public debt. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u39	Dear Madam President, dear colleague Goranov! The indicators related to government debt are essential for the current and future state of the financial system of the country and its economic development. My question to you is: firstly, what is the share of government debt in gross domestic product and what part of the budget expenditure are used for principal and interest payments in 2017? How do these indicators change over the next three years? Secondly: what is the ratio between short-term and long-term government debt? Given that more significant debt payments are expected after 2020, what measures are you taking now to secure these payments in the future? Thirdly: which are the selected intermediaries for the settlement of the 16 billion debt approved by Parliament. BGN, I mean, which of them have been used in the realization of debt in the last almost three years? What are the commission payments, in what interest is the debt received, the short-term and long-term? Fourth: what exactly is the new government debt used for? What is the structure of spending and what is the impact on the economy of the absorption of this debt? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. For an answer, the Minister of Finance. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Gechev! At the end of 2017, the ratio of government debt/ gross domestic product is expected to decline by 3.7 percentage points to 23.7% compared to the level reported in 2016 by 27.4%. Between 2018 and 2020 this indicator is expected to continue to decrease, reaching around 20% in 2018 respectively, to 22,3% and 2019. 21,3%. Here is the place to remind that the public debt information is constantly updated and is available on the official website of the Ministry of Finance. The long-term data are available in the government debt management strategy for the period 2018 - 2020 and reporting statistics are available in the monthly and annual debt and guarantee bulletins of the sub-sector Central government and in the publications on the level and structure of debt of the sector. The reasons for the 2018 State Budget Bill also contain some of the answers to your questions. As regards the second part of the questioning, first of all, I would like to clarify that according to ESA 2010 and the international GFS budgetary methodologies, the depreciation of the principals of the public debt is not classified as expenditure for the budget. As regards the public debt service costs, they are expected to amount to around 1,9% of the total cost of the consolidated fiscal programme for 2017 or nominally around 792,9 million. BGN, with the trend in the following years, this ratio is expected to fall to about 1,7% of the consolidated costs of the state; for 2018, it is expected to be 1,74% or 684,3 million. lv.; for 2019 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. and for 2020 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. As a share of gross domestic product, these costs will remain below 1% of gross domestic product. The ratio between short-term and long-term sovereign debt at residual maturity over the period 2017 - 2020 remains stable and does not have a negative impact on the risk profile of debt, amounting to 5,5% to 94,5% for 2017, for 2018. .4.1% to 95,9%; 4,6% to 95,4% to 2019; and 6,0% to 94,5% for 2020. The coverage of the upcoming larger debt payments after 2020 is ensured by maintaining high levels of the fiscal reserve, combined with a policy of strict budgetary discipline and measures to increase collection rates. In addition, the issuing policy of the State is aimed at smoothing out the existing public debt repayment profile within the existing and projected market conditions. All the above-mentioned debt management actions shall be implemented in accordance with the main objectives and rules of fiscal policy, management of public finances, as well as the state and forecasts of macroeconomic parameters. For each of the transactions carried out in 2015 and 2016 with a total volume of 5,144 billion. EUR or 64% of the envisaged maximum amount of the new debt under the Programme, which you are quoting, within the framework of a bond issuance programme on the international markets ratified by the National Assembly in February 2015, were selected banks leading managers on pre-defined criteria and following the procedures of previous transactions. In 2015 as organizers of the Program (arrangers), as is the professional terminology, and dealers were selected "Citizens Group", HSBC, "Societe General" and "Unicredit Bank". For the 2016 deal, drug dealers were selected GNP, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria, Bulgaria and the United Kingdom. The commission remuneration shall in principle be defined as a percentage of the volume of the securities issued by the selected banks, one of the lowest ones paid up so far in the course of the debt and shall be as follows: - 1.24 million were paid in 2015. EUR or 4 basis points of the total volume of bonds issued of 3,1 billion. EUR; - in 2016 398.8 thousand were paid. EUR or 2 basis points of the total volume of bonds issued of 1,994 million. Euros. The achieved interest coupons are the lowest for the Bulgarian debt in the foreign markets as follows: - a triple tranche in March in a total volume of 3.1 billion. EUR, comprising 7-year bonds at 2% interest rate, 12-year bonds at 2,625 thousand interest rate and 20-year bonds at 3,125 thousand interest rate. A double tranche made in March 2016 to a total of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR, comprising seven-year bonds at interest of 1,875 thousand of the percentage and 12-year bonds at interest of 3%. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Madam President, we will have to complete the data within the procedure. In 2016 as a result of the good strategies Bulgaria was awarded by the prestigious magazine " Global Martex" with the award for the Best State in Central and Eastern Europe for government debt management/emmitting bonds on international capital markets. A new debt may only be issued in specific cases that are defined in art. 5 of the State Debt Act. According to him, a new debt can be assumed to finance the budget deficit, to refinance the debt in circulation, to provide payments under government guarantees required, to support the country's balance of payments, to finance financial stabilisation programmes and instruments and to provide exceptional public financial support under the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms. In this sense, public debt is not a direct instrument for an impact on the economy, but is an element of fiscal policy, the priorities of which are contained in strategic budgetary documents and in the annual laws on the state budget. The figures for 2015 and 2016 envisioned new government debt emissions that would serve to refinance government debt in circulation over the years. The debt claims in 2015 amounted to 7 billion. BGN and for 2016 The amount of EUR 1,4 billion is estimated at EUR 1,4 billion. lv. to ensure the financing of the planned budget deficit and to secure a buffer available where necessary in relation to a planned quality review of the banks' assets in the country. The parameters achieved better than those planned for the year under the consolidated fiscal programme and, in particular, the positive budgetary balance, have allowed the resources provided to finance the budget deficit to be saved and, together with the unused buffer in relation to the review of banks' assets to remain available in the fiscal reserve. As a result of that, the resources available in the fiscal reserve increased for the year net by about 5 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. As of 31 December 2015, at 12,9 billion. lv. as of 31 December 2016. For this reason, the State Budget Act for 2017 did not provide for new external emissions and bonds, but for the securities' emissions on the internal market of a total of 0,8 billion. lv. are intended solely for the refinancing of the maturity of internal debt in circulation. In addition, the Commission notes that the Bank's restructuring plan does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, but does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. BGN, which is intended for co-financing of projects for the 2014-2020 programming period, implemented by European Union funds. The loan agreement was ratified by Law of the National Assembly 29 June 2017 and subsequently promulgated in SG No. 56 from the month of July. The acquisition of the loan by separate instalments and by year is linked to the estimates of operational programmes and national co-financing in the medium term, which are foreseen for the corresponding annual budget laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u42	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Goranov, for your answer, but I have the following two supplementary questions. First, most of the state fiscal reserve is naturally located on a deposit in BNB. This reserve is almost three times what is required and we will discuss it in the future. What is the yield of these deposits for the Ministry of Finance, for the budget of Bulgaria We have found out what the costs are........................................................ the interest payments of new loans. In other words, how much do we get from the frozen fiscal reserve in BNB compared to the cost of 2.. 3%? This is the first supplementary question. The second supplementary issue is the amount and share of public debt and the implementation of the 2016 and 2017 budget. Dear colleague, you do not implement the budget in the expenditure section. In parliament, we had voted billion and nearly 300 million. lv. for the re-arming of the Bulgarian Army. They are not made and you report them as an increase in the fiscal reserve and accordingly a reduction in the need to withdraw new loans. In addition, you did not comply with the Budget Act and with regard to capital expenditure. The second supplementary question is: how do you explain that you do not implement the Budget Act in its spending area, but consider it successes in terms of fiscal reserve and government debt levels? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u45	Honourable Professor. Gechev, it is clear to everyone in the Chamber that the fiscal reserve is the available funds of the government, of the state, which pay off old debt or finance excess expenditure over revenue. Undoubtedly in some of the programmes related to investment, there is a lag which is most often due to objective factors related to procurement or in this case, if we are talking about the modernisation programmes of the Bulgarian Army, of objective delays in the process of contracting the respective re-arming programmes. In this sense, the finding that part of the costs has not been incurred is rather correct. I do not see anything wrong in that part of the costs not to be incurred if there are therefore objective reasons. The budgetary balance is voted by the Bulgarian Parliament and the spending of the state budget cannot be exceeded by a lev above what appears in the annual state spending plan approved by the State Budget Act. What concerns the dispute is whether we should have at our disposal a certain amount of the fiscal reserve, of course, which is being paid for not as you said 3%, but I was quoting data below 1% of gross domestic product, undoubtedly, several hundred million. It is a question of strategy.. whether the state should have liquid buffers with which it can meet certain adverse situations where it is necessary to react quickly, as it was required at the end of 2014, or whether we should maintain a very low level of fiscal reserve, which, by the way, you know, there are target values that are non-low and related to the stocks of the so-called equity funds, stocks in the Silver Fund that cannot be used for other purposes than those provided for in the Law. So the free, operational fiscal reserve, which can be immediately used, is well below the amounts that are reported in total as the stock of the accounts. I conclude with the fact that the Bulgarian National Bank has set negative interest rates for holding deposits in BNB, which are applied within the meaning of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in view of the rules of the European Central Bank with regard to all entities, whether that is the State or the commercial banks. In this sense, we also apply these interest rates. However, I would like to assure you that the Bulgarian National Bank and I have very good communication in this regard and, in practice, we have not paid any negative interest for holding the fiscal reserve so far. Yes, we do not realise a yield that is expected from the holding of the fiscal reserve, but this is not, in my opinion, the purpose of having a free buffer of the country to cover payments when this is imposed overtime in larger volumes. Two billion we withdrew in 2016. Fortunately, it did not have to be used as a buffer in relation to the stress test passed and the quality assessment of the assets of the financial system. They remained and some of them paid 950 million. EUR in the summer of 2017, which is why there is also a tendency to reduce the amount of government debt as a share of gross domestic product in relative and nominal terms. If we so agree with the Bulgarian National Bank that they are starting to pay us income to us, the final result will be that this will actually reduce the contribution of the Bulgarian National Bank to our budget, because effective at the end of each year, at the moment the result of the Bulgarian National Bank and is an excess, this excess is translated in favour of the budget, i.e. these two balances are coupled vessels. In this sense, the self-intentional demand for income from the fiscal reserve has been led many times this debate and the Fund for Guaranteed Sustainability of the State Pension System is not necessarily leading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u46	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Professor. Gechev, about attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u47	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but it is not exhaustive, as we are interested in the philosophy of government debt management. Dear colleague, of course we do not require income from these deposits under the fiscal reserve, but you yourself said and we want to go into details as the devil is in the details. It turns out that poor Bulgaria finances the budget deficits of the developed countries of the European Union, as these deposits do not stand in the basement of BNB. Both the fiscal reserve and the currency reserve of Bulgaria, you know, honourable Members, basically goes to government securities of Germany, France, Italy and other countries and peoples. The question is: why do we maintain a three times higher fiscal reserve than the minimum, say it is 20% above the minimum, why do we transfer the money to the Bulgarian taxpayers to finance the budget deficits that go, including for public private partnership and investment in these countries, and we only take interest and losses? That's the question. The second issue we will be discussing next Friday, because, Madam President, we have collected 62 signatures and we want detailed discussions on the issue of the management of Bulgaria's public debt and its commitment to the Bulgarian economy, because what was missing in your reply, Minister, is the philosophy of debt. On the one hand, things look good. We don't claim there's an apocalypse of duty. In Bulgaria, government debt continues to be within very reasonable limits, even twice below the level of debt compared to the gross domestic product of other European countries. But still, mate, he's twice as tall as he was two years ago. There is a deterioration of other detailed indicators of debt. The net debt is deteriorating, other indicators of debt. So we want to see them in detail and, above all, see what we do with debt, as other countries and nations use some of the government debt to stimulate their economies. We will have to explain why other countries that have both higher growth and higher competitiveness do not have such tasks to reduce their debt in gross domestic product below 20% or maintain a zero budget deficit. Even Romania, which is the last and we want to move it at least from the last place, is pursuing another policy. Therefore, Madam President, here are 62 signatures. We want to debate not only as opposition on this issue, but we hope that some positive ideas will emerge in this discussion, which we will jointly realise in subsequent periods. Here you go. [[The National Representative Rumen Gechev gives the petition to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u49	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u50	Thank you, Professor. Gechev. Colleagues, in connection with the previous inquiry, by letter No 754 00 134 of 8 December 2017, submitted today at 11.20, received a request for a debate on questioning and Draft for a decision of inquiry, No 754-05-55 of 22 November 2017, by the National Representative Rumen Gechev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on public debt. The proposal for a debate on the question and the draft decision are signed by 62 MPs, that is to say the requirement for more than one fifth of the MPs to make a proposal for a debate on art. 105, para. 1 of our Rules. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We move on to the next question to Minister Goranov, who is from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev, on a report by the Director of the Directorate-General of the Directorate-General of the National Revenue Agency (NAP) and carried out on the basis of the Report revisions of judges who dealt with cases of complaints against forced administrative measures, and their families and lawyers involved in the proceedings. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u51	Dear President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! To this issue, I have also presented a report addressed to the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency, prepared by the Territorial Directorate of the NRA Burgas. It and its annexes shall contain detailed information on the proceedings before the court, the number of cases and court orders. The report expresses dissatisfaction and disagreement with the judicial acts given by judges at the Administrative Court of Burgas in cases with subjective administrative measures imposed by the Regional Directorate of the NRA Burgas. It is proposed to select the accounting companies, the legal companies for which there is information that they are legally serving the interested persons to whom forced administrative measures have been issued................................................................................................................................... The Union of Judges in Bulgaria by letter of purpose, which I have also applied, addressed both to you and to the Executive Director of the NRA, raises the question of the existence of this document, its authenticity and the consequences of its deposit. I believe that such a report constitutes a rude attempt at interfering with the work of the independent judiciary. The pressure on the barrage involved in the implementation of constitutionally guaranteed rights of protection to citizens, I also find it unacceptable. During the meetings with voters in the Burgas election district, we were alarmed that lawyers appearing in cases with subjective administrative measures imposed by the Regional Directorate of the NRA Burgas were given orders to carry out revisions and that such proceedings are being carried out at present. According to the information provided to me by these meetings, each of the lawyers to whom an audit has been carried out has been involved in examining the cases referred to in the report. It is also argued that the existence of a list of names of lawyers, only selected by reference to participation in cases with the same subject matter, to be revised. And while drawing up such a report, I find it, to put it mildly, unacceptable, I find it unacceptable to find it unacceptable to take measures to implement what your subordinate agency has proposed. In the light of the above, my questions to you are: 1. Are actions taken in the conduct of tax revisions of lawyers, accountants, judges from the Administrative Court of Burgas and members of their families and, if undertaken, what was the criterion for their selection? Did the participation of those persons as judge, lawyer, witness or expert in the administrative cases against the NRA serve to select them? I open a clamp, at the end of last week it became clear that there is such selection, as 25 of 39 cases are only on the territory of Burgas. 2. Do you consider it normal in the rule of law, where there is a division of authorities, the executive through its authorities, in the case of the NRA, to exert administrative pressure, that is, to punish Bulgarian citizens for seeking protection of their rights in the court, as well as Bulgarian judges for the fact that in the event of or in the event of the performance of their professional duties they are law enforcement in a way which does not appeal to the tax services in Bulgaria? 3. What measures will you take to put an end to the coup d'état exercise of power by your employees, and what punishment will you impose on representatives of the Central Government of the NRA, which have clearly, from the above, approved the carrying out of checks and revisions of the selected persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u52	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u53	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, first of all I would like to assure you that the National Revenue Agency has not allowed at any time an unregulated impact on any of the independent authorities in Bulgaria. Both the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Finance respect the fundamental values of the rule of law, independence and separation of authorities in principle laid down in the Constitution. In this sense, the suggestion of interference by the executive in the work of the judiciary is greatly exaggerated. Now I will also present a brief factology on the issues raised. There is indeed a report from the Director of the Department of Burgas Penka Zhekova to the Executive Director of NAP Galya Dimitrova. It offers: (a) changes to the NRA procedures for the sealing of sites; (b) changes to the Law on Value Added Tax on the Registration of Persons under this Law; (c) the selection of accounting houses, law firms, lawyers and judges of the Burgas Administrative Court and members of their family. The report is an internal service document which does not involve the official position of the NRA but the personal position of the prepared person. The proposals for changes in the procedures and the Law are considered in the Central Management of the NRA and a lack of precision and thorough assessment has been established and the proposals made in their significant part have been assessed as not applicable. Mrs. Zhekova's proposal for selection has not been addressed, but a disciplinary measure has been imposed on her. The selection as a process is carried out under the Law in the territorial directorates of the NRA and a proposal to the Executive Director of the NRA with similar meaning has no legal basis. In other words, the central management of the NRA does not have functional competence to carry out the selection. This is the work of the Territorial Directorate in Burgas. In this sense, such a report is futile. The selection is regulated in a written procedure which describes in detail the causes and mechanisms for its execution, and the selection itself is not a procedure under the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. It doesn't follow anything. Procedures are inspection and revision. Emotional assessments of NRA employees are not grounds for selection. In this case, we accept Mrs. Zhekova's actions. Its report cannot be classified as an administrative act initiating a specific control action, which is why it has not given rise to action because they would contradict both internal rules and legislative requirements. Following the act of the report in the Territorial Directorate of the NRA, no control proceedings have been carried out on judges and members of their families, none are planned in the future. With regard to only one judge, there is a verification of the absence of a declaration by the Court of Auditors, the judge is from the Supreme Court of Cassation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Tishev, come in, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u55	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, as far as I can tell from the answer, NRA Central Control has nothing to do with this. The fact is, however, that there is a letter as a result of a question concerning the Law on Access to Information, in which the Executive Director of NAP Galya Dimitrova points out the following: During the period indicated, it is about two months after receiving the report in Central Government, revisions were made to judges, lawyers, accountants and members of their families throughout the country of 39 natural persons who meet this criterion. Of these 39 in Burgas are 25. Only in Burgas! That means two thirds of all inspections and revisions are in the territory of Burgas, which clearly means that the report sent to Sofia was approved and such a selection is available. There's no way! In Burgas or in Burgas district, if you want, live about 6, 7, 8, 9, 10% of the population across the country, and 66% of the checks of these individuals - lawyers, accountants and members of their families - are in Burgas. That means there's been some action taken. And now to deny that this is not the case... However, I could not understand any measures would be taken in the future not to have such action? Because the very fact that reports are being written seems to have been approved is quite disturbing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mr. Minister, come in. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u57	Dear Mr. Tishev, before I continue with the exhibition in the form of a duplicate, I would just like to make a comment that no taxable person in Bulgaria, regardless of where it forms income, has a problem with the tax administration if it is correct. From then on, no taxable person may be automatically protected under his office from carrying out such an inspection. From the text of the reply you are quoting, for the period from 11 August to 31 October, 2781 inspections have been awarded to individuals of whom 34 is the number of individuals with a profession of lawyers, judges and accountants. For that period, the revisions awarded to natural persons are a total of 381, five being to natural persons with the above mentioned professions. The NRA's Territorial Directorate, as you rightly quoted, has awarded 23 inspections and only two revisions to individuals with professional lawyers, accountants and members of their families, recalling that there are no checks and revisions to magistrates. The said number of checks and revisions by professional judges, lawyers, accountants or members of their families represent 1,2% of all the NRA's territorial directorates for the period you quoted. According to the Annual Report published by the NRA within the country, more than 10 thousand revisions are carried out and between 35-40 thousand checks to establish different facts and circumstances relevant for compliance with the legislation or the establishment of obligations of persons, about 1000 of which are to compare acquired property and income received from natural persons. About the control measures against the accountants. In 2012, the NRA carried out an analysis of the tax risks of hiding income and profits from accountants, with the potential budget damage being estimated at nearly 100 million a year. The damage is significant, given the intermediate role of accountants in ensuring and respecting tax and accounting legislation by their clients. As a result of the analysis, the NRA has consistently laid down control measures, checks and revisions in its programmes to reduce risk levels in recent years. For risk treatment, 917 revisions, of which 824 of them or nearly 90% of them, have been awarded for accounting services revenue for the period from 1 January 2015 to the present time, have been awarded.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u58	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear MPs, Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov will answer a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov, Anton Kutev about the measures taken by the Ministry of Defence for the protection and protection of private-state property that are owned without legal basis by third parties. Here you are, Mr. Tsonkov, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u59	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Currently, the Ministry of Defence exercises the state's right to property over 2591 properties in 78 settlements in 22 districts. This is a good potential that needs to be maintained and expanded. At present, 193 properties of this housing fund are retained on an exhausted basis or without grounds from third parties. Of them 105 s 58 occupied and 47 vacant properties in settlements with durable military formations and the rest in places without office structures. In accordance with art. 80a of the Law on State Property State Property granted for use and management of the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of subordination of the Minister of Defence, which is owned or held without grounds, or on the basis of an exhausted basis by another natural and legal person, can be seized on the basis of an order of the Minister of Defence. In December 2014, an amendment was made to § 1, para. 1 of the Law on Supplement to the Property Act. According to that paragraph, the limitation period for the acquisition of private, state or municipal property shall cease on 31 December 2017. In accordance with this Law, the Council of Ministers adopted Decision No 1087 of 23 December 2016, which adopted an action plan with measures to prevent the acquisition of private, state or municipal property by limitation of property. The plan sets out a series of measures that regional governors, heads of departments and mayors should take. The limitation period is 30 November 2017. In this regard, in this regard, I would like to ask you, have actions been taken by the Ministry of Defence and what are they to settle these relationships and, of course, retention of the properties that are private government property within the Ministry of Defence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, honourable gentlemen Tsonkov and Kutev! In order to implement the Council of Ministers Decision No 1087 of 23 December 2016, which adopted an action plan with measures to prevent the acquisition of private, state or municipal property in the Ministry of Defence and in the Executive Agency of Military Clubs and Military Holidays, which exercises the right of ownership of the State on property from the housing fund of the Office, an organisation was established and an on-site inspection of all private-state properties was carried out. From the verification of 2591 residential properties, namely: dwellings, studios and garages in 78 settlements for the existence of properties owned without grounds by third parties or on a wilful basis, it was found that 177 dwellings and 66 garages were kept on an abandoned legal basis. At present, 70 orders for their administrative seizure have been issued to the persons holding them on the basis of art. 80a of the State Property Act. Sixteen of the orders were appealed before the Supreme Administrative Court and the rest were executed according to their terms and deadlines. In parallel to this activity, 63 pieces of one-month written notices have been drawn up by the Executive Director of the Executive Agency "Military Clubs and Military Holidays" for the termination of the rental services of persons using government residential properties on an abandoned legal basis, and in the event that the properties are not exempt from the tenants within that time limit, measures will be taken to force them to claim them under administrative order. In essence, garages do not perform social function. Accommodation in them does not satisfy housing needs. It should be noted that currently, two persons in need of garages have been mapped with 106 garages and garage cages available in the housing fund. After the final completion of the activities under point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2 of Decision of the Council of Ministers No 1087 of 23 December 2016 and pursuant to Article 2 of Decision No 1087 of the Council of Ministers 3 of the same, we will propose an amendment of the regulations in order to exclude them from the housing fund of the Ministry of Defence and to include them in the register of non-residential properties in the management of the Military Clubs Executive Agency and military holiday work and renting them out. The process of taking recovery action on housing, workshops and garages, as well as on other private-state property, which is the management of the Ministry of Defence and which hold, or hold, for no reason, or on an abandoned basis by third parties, continues and will end within the time limits set in the Decision. I would like to emphasise that by this time limit. 30 November it is not exclusive, that is, even after its expiry, the action plan can be taken. The taking of actions under art. 80a, including the non-substantial taking of the same private-state ownership acts, are property management actions that are carried out on a regular basis, where such grounds arise. Part of the social function of the Ministry of Defence is to the maximum extent to ensure the housing needs of the servicemen. In this regard, I would like to point out that currently the total number of applicants, i.e. in the country who are waiting for accommodation, is 4142, of which 1319 are in Sofia-city. It is implausible, immoral and illegal against the backdrop of this frightening number of needy, to allow these more than the objects you mentioned, they are 243 objects, to be illegally inhabited by lawless persons. I have ordered all fracking cases to be reported to me personally, taking into account certain purely human problems. For example, the case that was with a 91-year-old woman who will neither be moral nor human at the beginning of winter to throw her out on the street, as there is no one to take care of her. Another similar case is the case of the mother of the killed commando, who uses a similar residence on an abandoned basis. There are several such cases that we are looking for a solution, together with other institutions, that is, based on the human and social side of the issue. Once again, there's no law to lean on when you have to drive a 91-year-old old woman out into the street all by herself without a chance to live anywhere else. It is not morally that the mother of the Lyaskovets-dead commando whose son died doing his duty, although she has no legal basis to put her on this deadline and toss her out on the street too. There we are looking for a solution to the questions in another way, where the letters are put to stop the validity of a possible limitation period. Such cases will be dealt with differently in cooperation and in coordination with other departments. For all the other properties, it was no accident that I gave the number to the mapped and needy servicemen who had a legal basis. In all other cases, which you very rightly refer to, it is not moral on this side that people who have no reason to continue occupying the premises, and those of our over 4,000 soldiers to live under other conditions to search for free rent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u62	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Tsonkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased with the answer and I am pleased that the necessary action has been taken to resolve this really very serious issue. No coincidence, I suppose you've noticed, in media space, it's been discussed in recent weeks. On the other hand, the Housing Fund of the Ministry of Defence is important because it is a basic tool for.. to say social policy, the Ministry and solve social-bit issues for the servicemen and all who work in the system. I'd like to draw your attention to the garages you mentioned. It is true that they are not residential buildings, they are not of residential purpose and purpose, but they can be used for the revenue of the Ministry of Defence, because, as we see in the budget for next year, only 27 million of their own revenues are laid down. Obviously, there are reservations to raise these revenues and to use them appropriately and legally for the slightest increase in the wages of servicemen or other social-vice issues. Last but not least, speaking of the housing fund, it is important to think about it in the direction of its expansion, since there is such an acute shortage of housing, I am talking specifically about Sofia. I'm just going to draw your attention to garages that need to be arranged legally. Turns out they don't have a property certificate, they're on Street. - Oborishte. I'll give you more information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u65	You're right, Mr. Tsonkov, the garages in no way can we call giving out garages satisfying some residential needs. That's the logic. The Military Clubs and Military Holidays agency would like to rent these garage cages so that they can calculate some funds. A hundred and several garages are all over the country. It won't be much money, but it's a sin, if that money can be collected and put in, it can't be done. This is exactly the policy of the management of the Agency and of the Ministry. With regard to the matter that you have developed, it is absolutely true. I can mention frappany cases to you. Sadly, no measures have been taken for years, since it is an unpleasant activity to remove someone from a home. Many ministers have judged that since there is a moratorium, there is still time for someone else to think about it. Except, unfortunately, in time, that other guy turned out to be me. Invented name I can give cases, since recent campaigns have been raging, just like that, purely populist, but, first, there is a law. We have to abide by this Law. The right to inhabit the housing fund of the Ministry of Defence has people entitled, according to the Law. There are fracking cases. For the past 30 years, apartments have been used. Not just that. People who used homes who died a long time ago 15-20 years ago, there lived their grandchildren and paid nothing. There are other cases where neither water or heat has been paid for years and all this lies on us. Since society is sensitive to the issue of how the state pulls someone out of somewhere, we ask the question. And there are other cases a person who has purchased an apartment from the Ministry of Defense, then transferred it to children or relatives and takes a residence that now continues to use illegally. I say again, with the exception of these four or five purely humanitarian, human and social incidents, all other dwellings will be emptied and provided back to the Fund for the use of the rightful employees and servicemen of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u66	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For the procedure please, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u67	Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to note how written questions are answered by the ministers. It is a question of an answer from the Minister of Education, I take the floor on purpose now to draw attention to you, Mr. Velchev, to a reply by No 01-01-184, from 7 December 2017. This answer is based on a question I ask about how many civil contracts the Ministry made in 2017, how much are they worth, for what services and who are the contractors of these civil contracts? In the answer I have received, I have the activity accordingly, I have the deadline, I have the amount, but there are hidden persons, not mentioned by the persons with whom the contracts were concluded. I purposely pay attention to this problem, as the question is asked by accident, but is asked because there are concerns about conflict of interest and the refusal to show these persons, to name them, to confirm this my impression and concern that there is indeed a conflict of interest which, on the part of the Ministry, is trying to conceal. I don't know if it's in the administration itself, or if you're aware of the concealment of this information. I hope it is the first because I do not want to believe that the Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria is hiding information from MPs. I therefore draw attention from the stand, Mr President, to follow carefully and as soon as possible by the Ministry to complement the answers to the missing parts of the question I have asked, namely to name the people with whom these contracts have been concluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u68	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Question to the Minister of Education and Science from the National Assembly Veska Nencheva, Donka Simeonova, Tasco Ermenkov and Kolyo Milev on the procedure for the assessment and approval of cognitive books, textbooks and study kits. Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, it is clear for all of us that for several months the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................... In these meetings, which are attended with great interest, we have conversations with both principals and teachers and parents. There are very serious questions that we will be focusing on today. It is related to textbooks and study aids. In the system of pre-school and school education to assist the process of learning are used cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. The requirements to them are primarily related to their cognitive function, to the opportunities to help children and students understand and analyze the problems put, to show practical application of knowledge, and to motivate them to expand and enrich knowledge. They should also take into account the age characteristics of children and students. Many important elements for them are the content, language, structure, accessibility and attractiveness of the information provided. The regulatory framework lays down a very long and not light procedure which is related to admission to evaluation, evaluation in accordance with projects with requirements of state educational standards for cognitive books, textbooks and teaching aids. It is carried out by evaluators designated by the Minister of Education and Science and agreed with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Assessment of the applicability of school textbooks and teaching aids projects is carried out at each school by teachers who teach the subject at the relevant stage, from the degree of education and all teachers are aware of the severity of these procedure. Our question is this: how do you evaluate the procedure for assessing and approving cognitive books, textbooks and study kits in the Ministry of Education; will there be a change in the regulation and what? Do you guarantee that this change will be in favor of the Bulgarian education because it has become a practice every regulation that we have commented on, by the MPs of BSP for Bulgaria and to be subject to change and, unfortunately, not always for the better? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u70	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Secretary, come in. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Nencheva, the procedures for the evaluation and approval of textbooks and study kits for the first, second, fifth, sixth and eighth grade and in foreign languages, by levels of the common European language framework, have enabled an analysis of the implementation of Regulation No 6. Periodically there were proposals from the importers of projects of textbooks and study kits. Date of UN designation: 1 January 2017. Two amendments to the Ordinance were made only for two months from 25 April 2017 and 30 June 2017. This led to the conclusion that it was necessary to draw up a new draft Regulation No 6. The draft Ordinance was published one month on the website of the Ministry of Education and Science for Public Discussion. It introduces a specific chapter setting out the conditions and arrangements for assessing and approving training aids for training abroad. Since Chapter 7 of the Law on pre-school and school education does not provide for evaluation and approval of the projects of study aids, except when they are in a uniform system with the projects of the textbooks and in the implementation of art. 297, para. 3 of the Law, the need to extend the scope of the state educational standard arises. Changes were also made in the context of the task of lightening students' backpacks. Texts have been introduced which enable publishers to use full-color, two-color or one-color printing on bulk paper with appropriate technical characteristics guaranteeing quality. We are also looking at the possibility that large-scale textbooks will be divided into two parts. The procedure for the evaluation and approval of the draft textbooks and study kits for students from eighth to twelfth grade, importers may submit the draft printed edition in only one of the options of full color, two-color or one-color printing. The expected results of the adoption of a new regulation will be associated with an increase in quality, precision and high degree of objectivity in the evaluation of projects of cognitive books, textbooks, teaching aids and study kits. What you have put out is precisely in terms of the procedure. The fact is that it relies primarily on valuers who have an expert responsibility. For this reason, a change was also made to the Ordinance that their names can be public, as they have an expert responsibility with their names. Secondly, the procedure itself relies on teachers. In fact, he had previously relied on the teachers in the relevant subject matter, according to the relevant discipline at school, but there was no such regulated second stage assessment of the suitability of all teachers who teach under the relevant discipline or in the initial stage. We can hardly assess the effectiveness of this procedure. The fact is that it relies on the maximum number of participants in the educational system. This generally provides more guarantees of objectivity of the valuation. It is, of course, a challenge to improve the responsibility of both teachers and evaluators, and that is why these changes have been made. A few more changes were made to alleviate the requirements, with a view to enabling textbooks to prepare, evaluate and provide faster in schools, given the time period we had, the procedure that had to be completed and the textbooks to be provided by 15 September of the already started school year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u72	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. We have taken the responsibility to raise the issue and, at the same time, to present the proposals discussed with the aim of a fruitful dialogue in order to have positive results. Since time is short, I direct your attention to the findings and proposals that have been discussed at our meetings. Since the content of the textbooks must fully correspond to the curriculum, it is therefore inconceivable to talk about the quality of the textbooks without having the quality of the curriculum to be refined and tailored to the age characteristics of the students. Parents put with particular sensitivity the issue of textbook style, of heavy and bulky texts that are incomprehensible not only to students, but even to parents. Also a stage of assessment of applicability this year in schools coincided with the vacations and vacations of teachers. In addition, the deadline was extremely short only seven days in which some teachers had to review the four-fifth textbooks on a day and for these short periods, despite the desire of colleagues, it is hardly possible to deepen the evaluation. In addition, a press release from the Ministry said that 258 projects were presented to be assessed for applicability. Only two of them have received an assessment of the non-compliance and the rest are applicable. Here we ask the question: how objective and effective is this procedure? Some of the fellow teachers suggest that this is actually the procedure for choosing a textbook by which the teachers will teach. An interesting proposal was made to find the opportunity to test textbooks among the students for which they are intended. In addition, by going through a school year during which the textbooks are used, let an analysis and evaluation be carried out on how they were applicable and, naturally, there is an opportunity for subsequent corrections. I would also like to recall BSP's proposal for a textbook with basic facts and rules, and the diversity of needs to be satisfied with teaching aids. Thank you for what you said about backpacks, because some of our proposals are reducing the weight and size of textbooks, in order to precisely reduce the weight of school backpacks and direct attention to the readiness of our electronic education system. Finally, I would like to conclude again with gratitude to the teachers who, with their hard work, also compensate for the problems in the textbooks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u75	Thank you. Ms. Simeonova, we are also in constant contact with directors, teachers, representatives of the educational community and these problems are also our attention. The procedure is objective. You said how objective it is and how effective it is, the question is how selective it is, to what extent we can select some textbooks from others. Actually, that's what happens when teachers choose. The fact is that some publishers have a much higher percentage of coverage, of scope of students and classes than others. As I told you, the procedure relies on multiple actors in the system. This makes her in any case more objective, perhaps to some extent less selective. However, I am not convinced that if we have a textbook evaluated above all by employees at the Ministry of Education, this will be a more objective procedure. This procedure, of course, also relies on the positive effects of competition in the long term. The fact is that in a variety of textbooks we have a slightly greater risk in a separate textbook to have honest mistakes or some discussion texts, but it is also a fact that in the long term such competition leads to improved quality. Of course, if the procedure does not contain some other defects. For example, after talking to the publishers, I sent a letter to all principals, schools in no way to accept sponsorships from publishing houses, any gifts, participations in seminars and so on. Something we found somehow distorting the procedure at school level and interfering with objectivity. Also a challenge, of course, and it is constantly in terms of the curriculum and the quality of the textbooks. It's a very broad subject, and I don't know if I'm going to be able to develop all the ones that are on the subject. Thank you for your suggestions. In fact, on exactly one of these topics, which you have also put on the Quality Management Regulation in educational institutions, we have launched a change. Until then, we decided that we should not wait for the repeal of the Regulation to take place with the new regulation, but we have just abolished the existing Regulation to save dozens of people's hours of work in the system, which we do not have the confidence that there will then be continuity with the new regulation. We have no confidence and that the Ordinance in this version will lead to the desired results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u76	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on the achieved results of mobile teams to attract dropout children. Please come in and state the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! My question is related to the results achieved by mobile teams to attract dropouts from school children. From 1 September 2017 the country launched a campaign to attract dropout children from Bulgarian schools. It had to take part 1100 teams with representatives of various public institutions. Municipalities, regional managements of education, the Directorate of Social Assistance................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Unfortunately, from the beginning of the campaign, information about its poor planning and implementation appeared. A critical accent in them was the campaign. Teachers are mainly involved, and they do not receive enough support from representatives of the other public institutions. Syndicate "Education" to the Confederation of Labour "Support" came up with a special letter on the problem. Mr. Minister, my question to you is: how do you assess the effectiveness of the Ministry of Education and Science's cooperation with the other public institutions involved in the campaign to attract dropout children? Is there an analysis of the results achieved so far and what is it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Halacheva! Before answering the specific question regarding our assessment, I will present to you the results of the work of the joint work mechanism of the institutions regarding the coverage of children at compulsory pre-school and school age. The mechanism is a permanent process and the results of implementation should be continuously increased. As of 15 November 2017, more than 162 thousand were registered. The address. The exact number of students returned from the activities under the joint work mechanism of the institutions is 17 thousand. 297 students from set 2001 to set 2012 inclusive. Districts with the most dropout children and students and with almost 100% reach range are Gabrovo, Smolyan and Vratsa. Most of the dropouts, respectively returned to the system children and students, are in Plovdiv, Sliven, Stara Zagora and Sofia. Reports that children are located abroad are collected for 52% of visited addresses. No information is available on the whereabouts of 14% of wanted children and students, the same being submitted to the Ministry of Interior for a search on the territory of the country. Based on the data of the actual students in Bulgaria and the data submitted by the Grao, a further filtration procedure is being prepared to establish the presence of the children and their parents in the country. In the course of the activities of the scope team in several districts in the country in Sliven, Haskovo, Stara Zagora, Vidin, Burgas, Yambol and Shumen, the so-called early marriages emerged as a reason for dropping out. We have held meetings with the Attorney General, with further talks with the Prosecutor's Office to build a mechanism to counter this phenomenon. Addresses continue, with teams tasked with tracking back children and students and carrying out prevention activities for their re-deleted. In order to optimize the processes and successfully implement the mechanism, there will be: 1. Preparation of guidelines for joint work between teachers and directors and social workers in relation to the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Social Assistance and the Rules for Implementation of the Family Aid Act for Children. We have initiated a meeting to develop a procedure to exchange operationally through the IT Directorate of the Ministry of Interior information on the status of registration of established crimes. A working group has been formed to develop a procedure to prevent the risk of dropping children and students from the educational system. Talks with the Chief Labour Inspectorate are coming to discuss joint measures on future actions against illegal employment and minors. A letter was sent to the Ministry of Health with a request for increased control and sanctioning of parents whose children were not made compulsory immunizations. The mechanism is intended to become permanent and next year to finance a pilot national programme. Among the activities to be worked next year are additional classes in Bulgarian language, study in Bulgarian language, such as foreign, interest activities, working with parents. Within our Presidency, we will propose to launch a European pilot initiative to monitor the training of children migrating with their parents to other European countries. Such an initiative has already shown interest in countries such as Spain, Portugal and Hungary. In short, what we can give as a common assessment is that the joint work of the institutions has a very strong effect, a very strong added value. Very often, in performing important tasks for society and the state, we do not cope because we lack the necessary interinstitutional coordination and efforts. What is written in the government programme is that we cannot fail with all institutions, policies, policy instruments to tackle this challenge to our social economic development. The enterprise itself is large enough with 110 teams and nearly 11 thousand. souls engaged in them. Of course, in separate areas, in separate cases coordination between institutions is difficult. We hear that, I would say, in our daily talks with representatives of the institutions. We have had an extremely strong commitment in many places, in most places on the part of the other institutions, something for which we thank them mostly the Agency for Social Assistance and the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The fact is that in many places there has been a lack of coordination. Tough stick between teams One is free in one time zone, the other is free in another time zone. As there is a frank non-competence, such as saying: we have other, more important obligations. On each occasion, when we have received a signal of such non-engagingness, we have reacted to the Minister's level, that is, we have asked the Minister concerned to be of internal affairs, whether it be of labour and social policy, and he has taken action to remind us, to make sure that the relevant regional, municipal structures are more involved with this mechanism. A challenge for us, of course, to make it lasting, these efforts to continue with the same, even with a higher intensity and, of course, to keep all those children covered in the education system, to effectively involve them in the education system, and so far we have had obligations for the scope of these children. These obligations were under the Law of the Municipalities. Most of the teachers did, but the fact is, they didn't succeed or succeed to a much greater extent. In this sense, the mechanism and joint efforts of the institutions have their added value. It can change, it can improve the organization something that we have to put into the decree that we will cook, which will make the mechanism sustainable, better stacking the schedules of the individual institutions, holding responsibility for the presence of each employee in each team. From now on, work will be much more focused on much fewer students, since at least we know that more than 50% are abroad and this will allow us to optimize the efforts of all involved institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u80	Thank you. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The signals I received about irregularities in the checks carried out by the teams were mainly pointed out that only teachers were involved in them because representatives of the other institutions are present, I quote: That's what I think it's easy to check. Another thing that worries the teachers involved in the teams are the conditions under which they conduct the checks. In Plovdiv we had a case of a teacher who became ill with hepatitis B and was not responsible for it during the inspection and there was no result after it because the child had already been abroad from two years ago. That's why I'm asking you: how many of those 17,000. children who have been quoted here, we are sure that they go to school after they have been returned there, and also how will this work be paid to the teachers who have done it, because, ultimately, it is more important for them how they prepare for their classes, and not how many families will walk, as it turns out, 50% of the checks are of children who are long gone in the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u83	Thank you. I'll start back and forth how this work will be paid. We have regulated the possibility of additional remuneration aimed at participating in this activity. We foresee in the future decree that we bind the areas of scope of the teams to the adjacent areas of schools so that pedagogical specialists who participate in the teams of the school concerned have the direct incentive to cover, retain these students and the cost of their additional remuneration to be done through the budgets of educational institutions. How much do they go to school for 17 grand? Kids? That's what I told you, the biggest challenge is keeping them. We don't have a record of how many of them checked out right now. We'll probably have it in January. In the information system, institutions can also interact through the prescription of complex measures, but the fact is that the main part of the commitment to the inclusion of these children effectively in the educational system belongs to educational institutions. You very rightly said that this is the primary work of teachers, but, on the other hand, given the challenge that we have to cover these children, we are all obliged to do little or much to do tasks, to make efforts to carry out tasks that are sometimes not directly related to our basic duties, but in this case we should not have any doubts about not directing the resources of educational institutions to this, given the importance of the effects of this task. I have called every time and with the municipalities when we have spoken, and with the teachers, give specific signals about specific areas so that we can react and check them out. Plovdiv is one of the most difficult regions because we have the greatest concentration of children who are not covered and children from vulnerable groups in general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u84	Thank you, Mr. Minister! The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MP Irena Anastasova and is about the functions and structure of the regional managements of education of the Ministry of Education and Science. You're welcome to state the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Valchev, colleagues! As we know, the regional managements of education at the Ministry of Education and Science are territorial administrations to the Minister of Education for Management and Control of Pre-school and School Education. The activities of regional governments shall be carried out on the basis of Rules of Procedure, which shall determine their structure and organisation of work. It is natural for all territorial administrations to have the same structure, obligations and equal powers. At the same time, in order to carry out the tasks of management and control of pre-school and school education in different areas and number of educational institutions, their personnel must be approached differentiatedly and the Ministry of Education and Science has made a differentiation between different regional governments through a difference in state numbers. For regional managements of education that work in the territory of smaller areas of the territory, the state is 17 - 18 - the older is 23 - 24. About Sofia-City 42, if I remember correctly. Given that the districts differ in number of municipalities, by number of educational institutions in municipalities and settlements, but mostly by territory, this differentiation is not enough in my opinion. Of course, not just me. This is a question that I ask about the talks we have had in many areas of the country at our meetings and visits with experts from regional inspectorates. For example, in order to illustrate the situation: in RUO Burgas and RUO Varna, if comparable, they carry out their activities in management and control in respectively territory, twice as large in one area as in the other, organized in 13 and respectively in 12 municipalities with a total number of schools 142 and 132, kindergartens - 115 and 96. The two governments have a staff of 24 and 23 respectively. For example, the RIO Sofia-city, whose territory is 12% of the educational institutions in the country, 176 are municipal, 39 are state and 72 are private schools, and respectively the kindergartens are 198 are municipal, 3 are state-owned, and 70 are private, i.e. 19 per cent of the children in Bulgaria with a state-run staff of 42 people. Another serious problem for regional governments is low wage. I say........ especially at the moment, as it is lower than the salary of pedagogical staff in schools and significantly lower than the salaries of directors. Given the extreme importance for the education system in the country of the functions and activities of regional governments, I ask you to answer: What is the analysis of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the work of regional governments, the effectiveness and quality of their activities? What are the criteria to which the designation of their staff is subject? Does the ministry believe that a review of the state staff is necessary in order to increase the efficiency and quality of the work of the regional managements of the Ministry of Education? What are the intentions of the Ministry of Education to increase the salaries of experts and other employees in regional governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u87	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Anastasov! The regional managements of education carry out their activities on an established by the Minister of Education and Science Annual Plan. Outside it, the management experts also carry out checks on received signals and complaints. The review and analysis of the annual accounts shows that the activities set out in the Annual Plan are implemented, which is an indication of their effective planning and implementation. The implementation of the Ministry's policies and programmes is done with effective interaction with regional governments. An example of this is the results with regard to the mechanism that we just laid out. The total number of staff in the regional education departments is currently 612 staff members, of which 524 are in the service and 88 are in the employment relationship. I personally believe that this is the minimum below which the number should no longer be reduced. This has not been done in recent years, but it is a fact that in some previous years there was an overall general optimization of the number in the public sector, which also affected regional governments. The distribution of their stats is regulated, as you mentioned in the Rules of Procedure and the activities of regional education departments. In view of the demographic process and demographic problems, the continuing migration process will have a functional analysis of educational institutions by species and number in the relevant areas, as well as on the implementation of activities and policies. Criteria will be formulated, each of which has a certain weight. Based on these criteria, the state number of each regional education management will be determined. What I can tell you is that if you look at the current function, we can find a functional correlation between the number of staff in individual regional governments and the number of educational institutions, as well as the number of students in the relevant area. I think the lead is the number of educational institutions, as much of the control activity is proportional to the number of educational institutions. Here we can rather talk about a function of dependence that has a constant component and a variable component. Now the question is what should be the ratio between the constant and the variable component, how much the minimum fixed component can be or how much the minimum number in at least regional governance should be, given that it should be in individual disciplines or at least on the main, at least one, expert, and in individual areas. For example, an expert in vocational education should have. This limits the possibility of reducing below 18 numbers in the smallest regional governance. From then on, the higher number of 18 depends, as I told you, on the number of educational institutions. So this issue is at least open because, as I mentioned, there is a dynamic mainly in the number of children and students. On a regular basis, questions have been raised by the larger regional education departments for lack of numbers. On the other hand, we have a limited perimeter of manoeuvrability for restructuring and reducing the number of other educational institutions. And as you know, because of the limitation in the Law on Administration, the so-called Administrative Board, we have a limited opportunity to increase the total number of regional governments. As far as payment is concerned, yes, it must undoubtedly be increased, and I think that on a parliamentary issue, I have touched on this subject that we have an increased tendency to leave and start working for officials from regional schools, something that we have endeavored to react with the State Budget Act. What I can assure you is that almost all the increase in regulated staff funds in the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science for 2018 will be directed precisely to regional education departments, and we will also take into account that there is a slightly higher workload in the largest cities. And the average wages are a little higher, so we will do our best to differentiate this increase in remuneration to a certain extent. I hope that it will be somewhere between 9% and 10% this average increase in the remuneration of employees in regional education departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u89	Mr. Minister, I am satisfied in a significant part, not entirely, with your answer. I think we really need to take action, and I am convinced that the Ministry of Education and Science is aware of this. Because otherwise, the Ministry of Education is at risk of being stripped of personnel directly within the territorial structures that conduct the policy of the Ministry of Education and Science on the ground and on the fields. I have to tell you that from my experience as director I know well the activities of the regional government in Sofia-city, although identical problems of course, other problems have posed colleagues from the country. I am not a lawyer at regional governments in any case, even more recently I have been on the other side, as a person who has been checked out very often by them, but I cannot hide my soul. The experts are so busy that I have to tell you how they only manage to respond to complaints? They respond to hundreds of complaints, and response to each complaint means verification. From now on, they organize Olympics and competitions, organize receptions in schools. They have thousands of other obligations, and somewhere there remains their obligation to provide methodological assistance to the college. And this, believe me, in 2 years, will be a very important task for them, because we want or do not want, with quality or quality composition, but the pedagogical staff in the country will start at an accelerated rate to resume. God willing, I'll tell you what! So my request is indeed the Ministry of Education and Science to pay serious attention to these issues, including with the payment of experts. Because more and more experts are leaving and the heads of regional inspectorates are having trouble getting quality staff from a professional perspective. And when an expert comes to a school for inspection, he needs to know more than the principal, and he often doesn't anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. Mr. Secretary, thank you. With this, the questions to the Minister of Education and Science are exhausted. The Minister of Culture Mr. Boel Banov will answer two questions. The first one is from the MP Stanislav Stanilov concerning the unexplained status of archaeological sites of national importance in the municipality of Malko Tarnovo. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, state the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As you said, my question is related to the cultural heritage in a municipality, which is so to say on an obscure piece of Bulgaria. There the opportunities for cultural tourism are not very great, now local people develop it. Therefore, the status of these monuments is very important because both of them are very actively visited, especially the first of which I will now mention the tomb in the locality of Mishkova, which is a real cultural value of antiquity of national importance. It is part of a large cult complex, which consists of a fortress, pits, mound necropolis, fortified Roman villa and the so-called Big mound. In the actions taken for socialization of the site it is found that for it documents of ownership, which makes it difficult to preserve, restore and expose the site, there is no. The municipality of Malko Tarnovo has drawn up all the documents necessary to draw up a state-owned act. The documents were submitted to the Ministry of Culture by letter No 08-00-1121 from 07.06.2017. The next step by procedure is for the Minister of Culture to appoint an interdepartmental commission of experts to prepare the status of the archaeological site. It must draw up a protocol on the basis of which the same minister issues an order and asks the district governor of Burgas to draw up a state property act. The second such site is Mogile Necropolis in the locality of Propada, archeological group real estate cultural property of national importance "48 gravestone mounds and 6 stone tombs. In order to take action on restoration and conservation of the site, it is necessary to deactuate the land by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and to act on the Ministry of Culture of Malko Tarnovo Municipality, which has submitted the necessary documents to the Ministry of Culture by letter No 08-00-567 of 23.06.2017. The next step in the procedure is for the Minister of Culture to address the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for Deactivation pa property and then ask the Regional Governor of Burgas to draw up a state property act. As you can see, Mr. Minister, this is an administrative procedure that has never taken place before. So I ask you to answer me: What measures will you take to establish within a short period of time the status of the two sites and a subsequent request from the Regional Governor of Burgas to draw up a state property act? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u92	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Stanilov! By letter dated 7 June 2017, the mayor of Malko Tarnovo Municipality of the Ministry of Culture received a request from the municipality for the grant of a free management of the site. The documents annexed to the letter,.. a sketch from the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency, together with coordinates and a sample of lesso-plans, geodetic filming and so on.. are different from the documents necessary to draw up a state-owned act. The documents submitted are necessary to ensure the activities of the interdepartmental commission in accordance with the instructions given by the Ministry of Culture and the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage in 2015. To the applications of the municipality Malko Tarnovo material is presented a protocol from October 1992 to a commission which has defined the regimes for the preservation of real cultural values in the territory of the municipality of Malko Tarnovo, including for that site. The documents have been sent to the National Institute in order to conduct a new committee to prepare proposals for updating the conservation regimes. The interdepartmental commission is planned to take place at the very beginning of next year. On the basis of the Commission's protocol, the Director of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage should submit a proposal for consideration by a specialised expert council for the protection of real cultural values and an order should be issued to the Minister of Culture for the granting of status and designation of conservation regimes for the site. The procedure for free transfer of the designated site of the municipality of Malko Tarnovo under the Law on State Property will continue after the promulgation of the order of the Minister of Culture in the State Gazette. The second part of the question. By order of 16 December 2016, the Minister of Culture of the site of Mogile Necropolis in the area of Propada, municipality of Malko Tarnovo, was granted the status of archaeological group real estate cultural value. By letter dated 21 December 2016, a certified copy of the order was sent to the Ministry of Culture for information and enforcement in the municipality of Malko Tarnovo. The order sets out regimes, territorial scopes and regulations for the conservation of the site. The territorial scope of the immovable cultural property covers parts of the estates of public government property, Polish road and public municipal property. The scope of the real cultural value includes both tombs of the tombs of bricked graves falling outside the polygon. Following an inspection of the Cadastral Administrative Information System of the Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral, it was found that the land property in the area of Sirakovo, which mainly falls into the area of Mogile Necropolis, is public state property, type of forest territory, with a way of lasting use, another type of wood forest. Regarding the request of the municipality of Malko Tarnovo, made for free management of the archaeological site under the order of art. 12, para. 4 t. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act, the Ministry of Culture will complete a file to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for an opinion on the existence of a fallen need for the Office regarding the property, which, by the way, has an area of 2 million 489 thousand 993 square meters. I don't know how we're gonna motivate a weak need at the Department of Agriculture, but we're gonna do what we have to do. In case of a positive opinion from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, of course, the case will proceed to the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u94	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u95	Dear Minister, when I received information from the local authorities in Malko Tarnovo about this case, I was under the impression that the procedure was not moving. Your answer convinces me that this procedure is actually going and it is only a matter of time before it is resolved. As for the overly large area of the second site of Mogile Necropolis, in the area of Propada and the whole area there, perhaps the Ministry of Agriculture, I talked to the Minister of Agriculture and respectively the one responsible for the forests, perhaps they will limit this area and make it another species or offer us something. It's actually a matter of goodwill. Thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u96	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. A hole? Mr. Secretary, thank you. The next question to the Minister of Culture is from the MPs Nona Yotova and Krum Zarkov and is about the measures related to solving the issue of more Bulgarian music in radio broadcast. Mrs. Yotova, please present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In relation to my question, at first I should probably declare some conflict of interest, because it is the interests of Bulgarian authors and performers of Bulgarian music, and I am also one of them, so I do not know if it is right, but I think I should say it. However, this question is one of the main reasons why I am here. For several years, debates have been raised in our society on the introduction of quotas for Bulgarian music on the national radio broadcast. The existence of the problem and its significance are repeatedly identified by NGOs, copyright protection associations, as well as by the authors and performers of Bulgarian music. On the other hand, according to art. 2a of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, the Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Culture, adopted a National Strategy for the Development of Culture for 10 years. Although such a strategy has not yet been adopted, in a draft for such a Strategy it is stated that the legal regulation in the Law on Radio and Television of an annual quota for broadcasting Bulgarian works and productions by BNR and BNT is another opportunity for improvement, which, together with the determination of the amount of remuneration due by both institutions, would significantly improve the protection of intellectual property in Bulgaria. Please answer us: what is your opinion on the introduction of quotas for broadcasting Bulgarian music and is the Ministry planning other administrative and/or legislative measures to achieve this socially useful goal more Bulgarian music on the national radio broadcast? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Iotova, Mr. Zarkov, in response to your question, I will inform you of the following. The working papers of the expert groups on the National Strategy for Cultural Development do take into account the insufficient presence of Bulgarian production in the programmes and broadcasts of radio and television operators. The preliminary analyses suggest that this problem should be dealt with by legal regulation of an annual broadcasting quota, respectively transmission of Bulgarian production in the programs of the public radio and television operators. The discussion on the introduction of compulsory Bulgarian music in the air cannot be separated from the Community policies for the protection of cultural diversity and protection of European culture. From the point of view of policies on the maintenance of allowances for European works and works of independent producers, the introduction of national language quotas is regarded as a derogation from European law and is subject to notification. With regard to any changes to the Law on Radio and Television, it should be borne in mind that such changes necessarily take place with a view to introducing the amended framework of European media legislation discussed by the European legislator at the moment. Within this framework, European production quotas are called to protect the creative sector in Europe and promote European content, not to exclude and/or fragment on the basis of national or linguistic character. At the same time, the protection of Bulgarian culture and the promotion of the use of the relevant works may and is subject to cultural policies, which, however, do not aim to replace the individual choice of consumers or editorial freedom of the media. A question of editorial policy is exactly what kind of music to play on the air, taking into account the presence of niche music profiles with the audience concerned. The introduction of a mandatory national quota into the programming content of public radio and television should also be carefully considered in so far as it concerns a complex set of measures with regard to genre diversity, emission times and presence in such quotas of debuting talents and other criteria that may be part of a comprehensive cultural policy. It is indicative that a national quota is sought precisely in music, where the text is perceived together with the melody and the linguistic side is often not leading in the choice of consumers. This turns music into a cultural phenomenon without borders. I believe that for the promotion of the Bulgarian musical product it would be best to seek working solutions outside the purely legislative ones. The Radio and Television Act entrusts the Bulgarian National Radio to encourage the creation of works by Bulgarian authors and performers. In this sense, it is precisely the programme-balanced commitment of the public media that can support the cause of Bulgarian music. This is precisely the kind of approach that would be an expression of the conscious need for support for quality national works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u101	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. It is high time for this debate to come to the National Assembly in some form, because the working documents. Yes, but the obligation to draw up this Strategy is from 2011, there is still none, and such is necessary not only on this issue. Specifically on the subject. You focused on public media, yes, they have such a responsibility, it is incorporated with a special law, it is true. At the same time it should be borne in mind that at the moment there are also provisions............................................................................ 19a of the Radio and Television Act, where there is a quota for European programmes, and there is no distinction between public and private media and distributors, perhaps this should be done, but it is time for specific proposals. And one more thing about art. 19a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 4 talks about promoting the production and distribution of European works in radio programs, not only in public radio. I dare say that this is a very good time to start such a debate and find the necessary measures, as European legislation is developing precisely in this direction to protect European production. The changes to the directive that you quoted are going that way. And in European production can be made and there can be a quota for production in original language, in the case of Bulgarian language. This can happen by derogation, but the truth is that it is already happening and many European countries have very strong quotas for their own production. I inform you that the Chairman of the Committee on Interaction with Civil Society Mr. Anton Kutev has asked the special student programme in the National Assembly to prepare a comparative legal study of where such allowances exist. Of course, we do not want to take away the right of choice, nor of the listeners, nor of the programme directors, but we must give them the right to such a choice, that is, there must also be our production to be heard, as the objective listener is who I am, there is a feeling that we are listening to less and less Bulgarian music on the radio broadcast.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u102	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mrs. Iotova, Dear Mr. Zarkov! Firstly, I thank you for this question, because it is very important, even though it is flexible, but it is important for our national spirit and self-awareness. I would like to say that the strategy, from whose working points you are quoting, is working very actively and the aim is to present it in a short time for public discussion. I very much hope that it will give clear guidance in the directions of the question that you are asking. However, in any case, I would like to share something important that would be part of future debates that are coming, as I have been at a meeting with a Slovak ambassador. They introduced such quotas last year. They are one of the few countries that have now allowed themselves to introduce. Most of the countries you talk about have such quotas, but they are policies imposed quite a long time ago in these countries. Slovakia introduced such quotas last year and the ambassador shared almost a comic situation, i.e. radio stations, to avoid the obligation that the state introduces them, began playing the same song between 12:00 and 6:00 a.m. at night. In other words, you want us to have more music, well, the same song only in the night hours, during the day nothing, that is, the question is really multilateral. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Members of Parliament, this was also the last question about today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session starts at 9:00 on 13 December this year. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
