ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of Parliament, in relation to the decision adopted yesterday, 13 September 2017, which supports the proposal of the Conference of Presidents not to meet on September 15, Friday, I propose that it be adopted on the basis of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 19 September 2017, Tuesday, from 1 p.m. to 18.00 p.m. on the following agenda: 1. Selection of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute [[The procedure of choice is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 20 July 2017]] . 2. Parliamentary control comprising two points: 2.1. Debates on Ask No 754-05-33 of 13 July 2017 by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to create order in the land relations. 2.2. Answers to questions and Please vote. Vote 190 MPs: 182, no objection, abstention 8. The extraordinary plenary session thus proposed to your attention, with the proposed agenda, has been adopted. Declaration. You are welcome on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB the people representative Milena Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have learned more from her than I have from any other teacher. If it wasn't for her, I'd probably end up in jail. - That's what Steve Jobs said about his fourth grade teacher, Imogene Hill. Perhaps some of you, honourable Members, are wondering why I quote other people's successful examples? We don't have that many of our own, so let's not mention them in September 15th?! You know at school, the walls and the windows that have pictures, diplomas and memories of the most prominent students? These are just some of our successful examples in every Bulgarian school of any time! Each of us has our own teachers who have learned it more than anyone else. Each of us chooses or knows these special people to be entrusted with his children, his nieces, his grandchildren. There are also teachers in the parliamentary hall among us who have given their students more than anyone else. We can give them a round of applause. [[Applause.]] In education, the great goal is action. That is why we at GERB promised and fulfilled our management commitment that education should be a priority in our policy. I won't go into details of what and how much is done. I will only mention the increase in teachers' salaries from September 1st by 15 percent at the moment; the commitment of Mr. Borisov's government not to have children who are not in the classrooms; the ability of teachers to work without bureaucratic obstacles on their way; for parents who are convinced that the school is theirs as well. We know that for the children and students of the 21st century the world is just a click away, but school is the place where they learn friendship, respect, trust. Colleagues, the declaration of GERB's parliamentary group from the National Assembly stands for worship, faith and hope. We are a nation that not only marks September 15th as the beginning of the school year. We are a people who celebrate this day because knowledge is what the Bulgarian has always worshipped and believed and hoped it would bring prosperity to him. Knowledge is what has been at the heart of our country and our people for centuries. Yes, we argue, debate, anger, criticize, and even use education topics for political rations. By the way, this is also the worst political populism that we have often seen on the subject of education. Unfortunately, the opposition has always used this topic to show supposed care for society, but the planting of clichés and false claims that schools are being shut down, that armies of illiterates are being created, that teachers are abandoned to deal with themselves, that the new law is responsible for all old problems, is only pathetic. I've told you before that we don't work hard. The challenges that we face today should be solved with discussions, but not with lies, discussed with arguments, not by voluntary reasoning. It is absolutely irresponsible to say that today's changes are the cause of the level of literacy, of aggression, of school dropouts. Yeah, we're making changes, and we're making changes to solve these old problems. But we also make changes to move forward, because that's what our children want. There is no time for politics in the field of education. September 15th is a day when we must remember that the school has always been and will be our national together. Only educated and knowledgeable people can build their future and that of our country. Only educated people can turn dreams into reality, create, be innovators, be leaders. That's why we want and work for a school that doesn't just give knowledge and skills, it's a school that builds personalities. That is why we want and work for the teachers who raise the future brilliant minds of Bulgaria, because, as Todor Vlaikov said, the unenlightened people as much as they have rights are self-indulgent. On the eve of September 15 we wish you: Happy Day of Knowledge and Happy Holiday! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. People's representative Irena Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u4	Honourable President, honourable Members! We're on the verge of a new school year. A day of light and joy. A day of repeating a new beginning. A day of smiles and worries, of many flowers, of hopes, of gratitude, of promises. A day that each of us remembers and who lives again and again with his children and grandchildren. And for those of us whose professional destiny is related to the children and school, a day of invariably repeated excitement and a sense of duty and responsibility. This should be today the feeling of all of us... a sense of debt and responsibility to the future of our most valuable capital... the children of Bulgaria. Because in our republic, the basic rules are set here in Parliament. Because the way we define the legal framework in education depends on the functioning of this most important system. And if last school year we found out with the new Preschool and School Education Act, then on this 15 September the Law already has its one-year history. The time is indeed short, especially given that most of the standards of the Law were adopted a month, two, three, five after its entry into force, and some of them have not yet been adopted. But in that short period of time it became clear that the system was not properly prepared for this experiment, to call it in quotes. And if anyone claims today that the way the Law was introduced didn't cause chaos, then either he didn't know the system or he closed his eyes. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Even the fact that two of the 19 standards have not yet been adopted and five of the amendments already adopted have been proposed, two of the adopted changes have been completely abolished and new ones are proposed, talking about the quality of the normological activity. The essential question remains how schools will prepare their academic year in regulations that are like quicksand. How do you spell school strategy when you don't know tomorrow's financial terms? How is development planned when there is no standard for physical environment? How will teachers master new skills for everything with training provided within 12 hours a year? The words of Minister Kuneva will remain on the occasion of the confused curricula of more than 120 thousand students from the sixth and seventh grade. This is an emblematic example of the way the reform of the principle was managed in front of the horse. That's what chaos is. Against the background of this and so far there is no comprehensive analysis of the results of the first year of implementation of the Law. In the massive PR stocks behind the frame, the interests of hundreds of thousands of children and students who studied without textbooks, missed essential areas of knowledge because of the wrong curriculum. No one at the Ministry of Education took responsibility for the fact that more than 130 thousand students under the programme should not have studied the Bulgarian medieval and geography of Europe. There is hardly any talk about the fact that programs in different subjects are not synchronized, that there are no real interface relationships. Our position is: a review of the curriculum and plans is needed to address these problems. The school continues to reproduce social inequality due to the state's fault. As a result of poverty, as a result of ineffective measures, as a result of a growing school differentiation, the number of early school dropouts has already gained frightening amounts of 21 170 students for last school year! According to the factors of enrollment of the population in the different degrees of education last year, 8% of the respective set did not enroll in the first grade, almost 22% in the fifth and almost 20% in the middle. We will recall that last year this was the subject of our press conference. We are pleased that the Council of Ministers has adopted a mechanism that should ensure the presence of children in kindergarten and school. We are also working on the register of children and students, which will allow traceability, analysis and impact on the processes that we have been insisting on since 2009. We support measures and efforts for full coverage of education. But success is only possible when there are effective measures to overcome poverty. Bulgaria remained at one of the first places in the European Union on child poverty. Sequencing care of the state and through the school for the health of children and students, for their meals, for the formation of their values. We are witnessing how aggression among children is increasingly becoming a problem of society. However, the question of the responsibility of all public factors for solving the problem, including the responsibility of parents and the media, is not yet raised. The responsibilities are transferred to kindergarten and school, which can't handle themselves. Solving the problem requires urgent one-way public impact. The issue of upbringing becomes a key issue. Another very serious problem is the risk of closing hundreds of primary schools left without the required number of students for graduating primary education in the seventh grade, instead of in the eighth grade. The motive that primary schools will become united has proved untenable. United became 56 out of a total of 1257 primary schools. Our warnings were not heard that the contraction of primary education would shut down a new group of schools. On the contrary, we were ironic. And now the local communities, the mayors are looking for options to get out of the state. This school year, colleagues, will start with a kind of record of a shortage of 3,000 teachers and appointed in the system 1000 unfit. In five years, more than 40% of the college will be retired. We support the growth of teachers' salaries. In itself, however, he will not solve problems with the quality of the preparation of children, and it is illusory that the increase is 15% for all teachers. Whoever is aware of the mechanisms will understand that in small schools again the increase will not be 15%. We insist on updating the teacher's training system to ensure a higher level of training and qualification. For years, tensions and chaos in society and in the educational system, colleagues, have fallen on teachers and directors. Whoever's been to school knows that best. At the same time, no state-level representative has ever taken responsibility for any misconception or errors in the system. Unlike these state-level representatives, the Bulgarian teacher bears his responsibility every minute. At least for that reason I would like to say words of heart for him, for our teacher, but I can't say it better than the one and only Prodev: For the Bulgarian teacher, for the man who creates humans, for the artist of knowledge, for the one who teaches Bulgaria to read, to think, to seek. Hats downstairs for the most generous among the people and for one of the poorest, for the giver of himself without pay, for the bearer and guardian of the spirit, for the patriot and publicist, pressed by his social cross, not respected by those he studied. Hats down for this humble but great man without whom we are unthinkable! And bow! The Bulgarian teacher is our hope. No one else, and he'll leave us in time. Politicians, parties, traders will come and go, but he will stay to protect us. It's his temple, so let's give him what he deserves as a people, as a society, as a state! Finally, I allow myself to add one conclusion to my long-standing practice. There, in the classroom, colleagues, the teacher is all in the eyes of 16, 18, 20, 30 children. Not the parent, not you and me, not the director, not the mayor, not the ministry clerk! Therefore, we are obliged to give the teacher all our trust that he needs if we want a decent future for our country! [[Noise and calls at GERB.]] Happy new beginnings of the new school year! And as we always say in school, good luck to you, and the teacher must be respected and not apostrophe on such occasion and on such a day! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Anastasova. I don't know why you think of the MPs as students, but that's another topic. [[Radio.]] Are there any other declarations? Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Tomorrow is a special day for tens of thousands of first-graders and their happy and worried parents! Another first day of study for everyone else, but the celebration in the eyes of students and teachers is enough to make sense of the power of knowledge and to realize that education and science are fundamental values and achievements in modern society. In the 21st century, in the coming ever more interesting time, education will play the most essential role in universal development. Education isn't just schooling. The acquisition of knowledge and skills in the home and family is also part of this process. It includes the experience, and the achievements of the previous generation, of the values of our ancestors, with which we look into the world and more and more color becomes our horizons. Is the Bulgarian teacher ready today to look differently not at the fundamentals of the lessons learned and almost memorized, but through the eyes of the new generations to the different, increasingly global and informational world? To what extent did the teacher and the Bulgarian school influence both the formation of personality and character and the decision of the graduate student to continue his education abroad? We have always claimed that education is appreciated in Bulgaria, but unfortunately, in real life we have always convinced ourselves otherwise. Teachers complain, parents complain, and often the inadequate reaction of institutions further aggravates the situation. This is what our children are suffering, and they are our better future, our tomorrow Bulgaria! Dear colleagues, following the introduction of delegated budgets in 2008 with the new financial rules for a single cost standard by number of students in the relevant educational and children's institution in Bulgaria, optimization of the school network was carried out. In fact, it was a euphemism, and in fact it meant mass closure of schools and kindergartens, most of which municipal. The reasons were mainly financial and demographic, but they are also mutually determined. If this was the hidden purpose of the reform, then it was successful. Now the new government of Boyko Borisov declared education a priority. That, of course, means more money, but hopefully not only. Because with the same force, it also means a well-functioning law and regulation that regulates, regulates and stimulates the system. This means a modern school with standard and conditions that meet the requirements of the new time. It also means well-trained young teachers, humanists of calling and spiritual nature. This also means really covered and training children between five and 16 years of age, as the Constitution of the country enjoins. The priority should also require modern teaching methods, require updating of scientific information in textbooks, providing modern technologies, materials and didactic tools. It is imperative to feel the state support in the small schools far away from Sofia, in small and medium-sized municipalities, in mountain, semi-mountain, border and risk areas of the country, where there are still children who have the right to education in their home school, in which with equal joy to study both the official Bulgarian and their mother tongue. The priority applied for and set out in the country's management also implies a new, qualitative attitude towards education as a whole, which will not be achieved only with the increase in teachers' salaries as of September 1st. Yeah, that's a first, good step for the first day of school. We, in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, are sustainable enough in time and will be responsible for the follow-up measures and actions in the field that must be healthy and stabilizing. Dear colleagues, September 15th is a popular holiday in Bulgaria. Let us show our responsibility to the growing generation and tomorrow each of us will attend a school. Let us congratulate our students and teachers as proof of the changed attitude towards education and science. Depossessed and poor Bulgaria is a real picture and a real danger if today we are not the enlightened statesmen and we are not able to make the right decisions by investing in the education of our children. May the school bell put us back in class tomorrow. There's no light in our life path if we haven't gone through education and science. We wish all students and teachers dedication, more will and creative approach! Happy holiday and successful new school year! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmet. We move on to the first item voted for today's sitting: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE ENVIRONMENT PROTECTION LAW, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION ON 27 JULY 2017, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE WITH SAY No 175 OF 7 AUGUST 2017 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF CHILD. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water. You have the floor, Mrs. Vassileva, Chairman of the Committee on Environment and Water.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u8	Access procedure in plenary. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure please allow Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u9	We are voting on the proposal made. I'm joining yesterday's appeal by Vice-President Zablyanov for the malfunction of the consoles. My console isn't working right now. Vote 165 MPs: 162 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Deputy Minister Zhivkov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u10	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! {\cHFFFFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FFFF}{\cH00FF00} to the Committee on the Environment and Waters on Decree No 175 of 7 August 2017 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria on Return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017 and the reasons to the Decree. At its meeting held on 7 September 2017, the Environment and Water Committee discussed Decree No 175 of 7 August 2017 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017 and the reasons to the Ukhaza. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Environment and Water: Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister, and Boyko Malinov, Director of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works; and by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works: Vasilka Nacheva, Secretary General, and Boyanka Georgieva. There was an eng. Ivan Boykov Executive Director of the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria, eng. Miroslav Maznev, Chief Expert, Evgeny Ivanov, Executive Director and member of the Management Board of the Chamber of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CRB), as well as representatives of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry: Vasil Todorov, Secretary General in the Chamber and Snezanka Dimitrova, Public Relations and Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria. The chairman of the committee Ivelina Vassileva reported the President's statement and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution, the President returns to the National Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017, contesting § 2, item 2. 1 concerning the new para. 4, § 3 concerning para. 10, sentence two, § 4, t. 1 concerning the new para. 7 and § 6, t. 1. At the beginning of the reasons, the President states that the adopted Law establishes a uniform legal procedure for complaints against decisions of the Minister of Environment and Waters on investment proposals, their extensions or amendments, which are defined as objects of national importance and of strategic importance, and with transitional and final provisions such a change has been made in the Law on Biological Diversity, where complaints against decisions of the competent authority on plans, programmes and investment proposals relating to the realization of such sites will be decided in one instance. The President welcomes the effort to speed up the process of building national sites of strategic importance for the development of the country, but does not share the approach taken by the legislator to speed up the reduction of the courts' controls because the good involved with this amendment is the environment. Environmental care, a high value, is among the main foundations of the Constitution, where in art. 15 The obligation to ensure the protection of the environment is laid down. According to the President, administrative courts perform their right-of-law function in both institutions, with cassation proceedings being an effective barrier against petty, ineligible or incorrect first instance decisions and its removal in the Environmental Protection Act and in the Biological Diversity Act will reduce the intensity of protection guaranteeing the environment as a constitutionally established value. The President is convinced that a better balance can be achieved between speeding up the implementation of the strategic objectives of the state and the legality as the basis of the rule of law. Following the presentation of the Decree and the reasons for it, the Chairman of the Environment and Water Committee pointed out that all four contested texts were in relation to the single-station proceedings and announced the beginning of the discussion. People's representatives took part in the discussion: Manol Genov, Rumen Georgiev, Stanislav Ivanov, Atanas Kostadinov, Petar Petrov, Boris Yachev and Ivelina Vassileva. People's representative Manol Genov expressed his position in support of the presidential veto and the possibility of speeding up the procedure, but in two instances. People's representative Rumen Georgiev expressed his opinion that a wider discussion should be held with business representatives and expressed support for the veto. People's representative Stanislav Ivanov expressed his opinion on the reasons for the Ukhaza, their unjustifiedness and expressed support for the adopted law. People's representative Atanas Kostadinov expressed support for the arguments in the reasons for the contested texts in the Decree and the need for a new wider public discussion. People's representative Petar Petrov pointed out the need for the adoption of the Law, which will ensure the successful work on the realization of national sites of strategic importance. National Representative Boris Yachev expressed support for the Law, which he said is for the benefit of the environment and people. Commission President Ivelina Vassileva stressed the importance of environmental protection. She pointed out that the changes to the Law on Environmental Protection concern the admission of an exception for priority strategically important projects in the interests of citizens and society and important for the development of the country. These are projects for national sites declared as such by an act of the Council of Ministers included in the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020 and the Integrated Transport Strategy by 2030. The two strategic documents were adopted by the National Assembly and the Council of Ministers respectively and passed an environmental evaluation procedure, which is subject to two-instance control. As the Supreme Administrative Court rules on decisions of the Minister of Environment and Water for National Objects, the function of the Supreme Administrative Court to carry out supreme judicial supervision for the precise and uniform application of the laws is maintained. Ivelina Vassileva gave examples of one-stop production in the field of environmental legislation and in other countries. The national legislation also allows for uniform production, which does not violate access to law, but rather prevents cases of abuse of law. On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Political Party GERB called once again for support of the re-acceptance of the Law. Mr. Evgeny Ivanov, who expressed the support of the Law by the Chamber of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, found in him protection of the state and the national interest in national sites of strategic importance and pointed out that non-governmental organizations should be subject to representation criteria, as is done for employers' organizations. Engineer Ivan Boykov supported the Executive Director of CRIB on the protection of public interest by giving an example from the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria with delays in procedures by more than a year, a year and a half and called for an approach more practical than political. On the part of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Mr. Vasil Todorov pointed out that the second judiciary does not guarantee better justice, but Mr. Ivelin Zhelyazkov from the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria announced that the employers' organizations have a common position in support of the amendments to the Law, stressing that the second instance only checks the procedures of the first and does not examine the matter in substance. The proposal of the National Representative Atanas Kostadinov to organise a broad public discussion, the result of which was to be presented to the National Assembly, was rejected by 4 votes for the National Assembly, 9 against the National Assembly and 3 abstentions. In the discussion of the President's Decree, the majority of the MPs agreed that the reasons for returning to the National Assembly for a new discussion of the provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of the Environment are unfounded and unfounded because of the considerations put forward during the discussion. After the debate was concluded and the vote was taken, by 11 votes for the vote, 5 votes against the vote, and without abstention, the Committee on the Environment and Waters adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u11	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. Parliamentary groups have the same time as they do in the first vote. A minimum of 121 votes in the vote are required to be re-accepted. You have the floor to speak. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In view of the important debate to take place in the National Assembly, given the high public interest and its protection, I am making a procedural proposal for a direct broadcast of the debates and the vote on this item on the agenda on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u13	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by MP Philip Popov. They voted 165 MPs: 63, against 19, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Here you are, Mr. Popov, for your first speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 117, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is clearly written that the judiciary in one of its main functions protects the rights and legitimate interests of citizens, legal persons and the state. A little further down in art. 125, para. 1 of the Constitution is written that the Supreme Administrative Court carries out supreme judicial supervision for the precise and uniform application of the laws of administrative justice. How will the judiciary, and in particular the Supreme Administrative Court, fulfil this constitutional obligation to protect the rights of all citizens and of the state, to monitor the exact and uniform enforcement when introducing these restrictions? This is the meaning of judicial review.. to control not only the executive authority, but also the first and second instance judgments regarding their legality. There is no rule of law without an effective judiciary, without guarantees of uniform and precise enforcement, and it is precisely the appeal and Cassational judicial review that is essential, especially when it comes to cases of high public interest and, in this case, in this case, it is precisely that kind of case. An interest of high public order, which is also constitutionally guaranteed, is precisely the environment, honourable MPs! Its preservation and this inalienable and important public interest, this is the protection of the environment for future generations. In the principle of separation of authorities, the principle that power is deterring is also included in judicial control. You want to reform the judiciary's system, but what you have done with this Law is not necessary for the development of the efficiency of the judiciary, because it destroys the principle of law, several basic principles: access to justice, to a fair trial, the protection of public and national interest through judicial control of the legality of the acts of first and second courts. It is logical to have such control in other types of cases, but to lack such control when it comes to important state projects and environmental protection. The speed in these proceedings is not a high value, but that is the legality. This is a fundamental value for any modern democratic rule of law. And do not harm this state staff, dear Members of the National Assembly! Access to justice, the protection of public interest, the constitutionally guaranteed principle of protecting the environment has its meaning, has its place not only here in the present but also in the future. Graduating, on this occasion I will try to remind you of a thought of the Roman Emperor Mark Aurelius: Do not touch on the future of future generations, our children, who should live in a rule of law protecting the interests of society protecting and protecting the environment in which we live. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a line? Here you go. A line from the MP Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I would like to express a fundamental disagreement with the legal grounds with which you actually launched the presentation of the presidential veto. I would like to say that both the constitutional norms that you have pointed out do not concern the cassation appeal and there is no point in overloading and overreacting with meaning and meaning that they do not have. I bring you back to your understanding of art. 125 of the Constitution, and I repeat what you have said: the Supreme Administrative Court exercises control over the exact and uniform application of the Law. Mr. Popov, in this proceedings, the Supreme Administrative Court controls itself. Please take that into account! The Supreme Administrative Court shall act as the first instance and, possibly, if the order remains unchanged, as the cassation authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Popov, my remarks to your speech are principled. You said that citizens, legal persons are deprived of a fair trial and access to justice, which is not the case. In practice, the case is examined by the Supreme Administrative Court in a three-member Chamber. There are sufficient guarantees in the Administrative and Procedure Code so that such proceedings are fair and therefore granted access to those persons who wish to lodge a complaint against the administrative act and to protect their rights in this proceedings. Next, I would say that since you have such a principled position in the cassation proceedings in the administrative appeal, I expect you to now retain your active position in the examination of the GPC and the problems of cassation proceedings there, because strangely, in your view, in the civil process, there is no need for cassation proceedings but only in the administrative administration. In order not to repeat myself, we do not, in this case, have no supervision of the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice over decisions and acts of administrative courts, but of Chambers of the same Court. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Popov! Colleague, in all the years of your management the management of your justice BCP, the process in Bulgaria was two-instant. Is that right? And I, as a judge of the time, do not think that justice and the trial were unfair. And here, your entire campaign of obstructions of this Law goes under the guise of a fair trial. All lawyers here know that fair is the process that takes place and is carried out according to the law and Constitution of the respective state, in the case of the Republic of Bulgaria. Now what are we changing? We're shortening a phase of this is admissible in the Constitution, and we're making the law. It follows that the process will be fair. It's logical and clear. And as long as with this howling, this crying, this roaring, these accusations, they're self-inflicted, they're just to make obstructions, to stall, to hang out, to create in society again the appropriate dose of distrust between people. So big is this dispute about the two-in-one, about the tri-instance process. He's also theoretical, he's a doctrinal dispute. Let's not carry it here and pretend to be bigger fighters for justice and for the rule of law than we are. And again I return you to the two-instant process was the process in Bulgaria for 45 years. And he was just, he was giving his result, and at the moment, many judicial reform fighters need to be talked about in this plan, in that order of thinking about reminding them and putting them in their place, where they should be. [[The President signals that time has expired. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now you must be put in your place and no more speculation. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u21	I don't know how you were a judge then?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. You have the floor for the dot, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, in terms of lines, I will start backwards. Dear colleague, we have a Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, which we all accept and swear here when this National Assembly begins and every National Assembly. And so, as I quoted you, it was clearly written:............................................................... Article 117, in art. 125, para. 1 "The Supreme Administrative Court shall exercise supreme judicial supervision for the precise and uniform application of the laws of the administrative administration. " This is regarding the replica of colleague Kirilov. What's the point of a cassation appeal? Isn't equal enforcement, isn't that what controls matter, dear Mr. Kirilov, this is the next instance, whether the Supreme Administrative Court is a three-member, five-member Chamber. He controls the act of the lower instance. That's the point of the cassation appeal. It is this principle that you want to take away and provoke it, to break it, to begin its degradation with exactly what you propose in this bill. That's what we're fighting against. We don't agree with that. With regard to the reply of the fellow Member from the United Patriarchs. Colleague, you are proposing an extension of the cassation proceedings in the Civil Procedure Code, and here you want it to be canceled at all. It's a very double position. Point out what you want in the end, because you cannot in civil proceedings where interests are not of such high public order, ask for an extension of the cassation proceedings you and your group, but here in administrative proceedings, to want its absolute total cancellation. Regarding the last line. Dear colleague, it also had Krum's laws and then they were up-to-date. However, we now have a Constitution, and we should respect it. Now this Constitution requires that there be such proceedings, and this is not about doctrine disputes, whether it be two- or three-installed, this is about compliance with our basic law, the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, for compliance with fundamental principles which have been developed in law, and one of them is this judicial control which is subject to two, respectively three instances. As a judge, former judge, I sincerely wonder why you are against this development of law, why you are against judicial control, especially when it comes to high public and state values. I understand that you want these procedures to go through so quickly somehow, unnoticed, without judicial control, because you are currently ruling, but do not bet against your government and these personal values that you have built into a cult, such common values of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u24	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor as a person with thirty-four years of service in the field of law and long before becoming a constitutional judge I was very keen on administrative law as a practitioner, legal counsel and lawyer, and as a lecturer five years of administrative law, I was a Honorary Assistant at Sofia University at the invitation of Prof. Lazarov Cinema. All these years, when I was in administrative law, both in words, and in cases I was in for increased judicial control of the administration. You're going to let me brag about it, not just anyone, I, the 38-year-old boy, wrote a joint article with professor. Dr. Zhivko Stalev in the magazine "State and Law" which was exclusively devoted in those years of expanding judicial control over the administration and was called "For the improvement of administrative justice." And I am honored that what we wrote with this brilliant Bulgarian scientist, in this House 1990 and with the support of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and with the support of the BSP were accepted my proposals for the extension of judicial control of the administration, through amendments to the Law on Administrative Procedure then, and the closure of the so-called administrative powers, the authorities of the administration, which were presiding over. That is why I respect the veto of the Head of State not only because it is his constitutional right, but because in the veto itself there are proper opinions about the role of the judiciary in the administration, about the role of the respective institutions, and here I absolutely agree with the President that there are no legal guarantees in the system of protection of the rights and legitimate interests of citizens higher than the judicial ones. However, I would urge us to overcome the veto with a stronger argument than an explicit constitutional provision which has not been commented in the veto, perhaps because it does not enjoy the sovereign will of the Head of State. There is no way that lawyers of the rank of Emilia Drumeva, of Pencho Penev, of Atanas Semov, who are his legal advisors, would not know it. Dear colleagues, we need to hear this clearly. Administrative acts under the Bulgarian Constitution shall be subject to judicial review unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. Article 120, para. 2 We have a common judicial review clause, but we have the right of the National Assembly in certain institutions not to reduce the number of institutions, but to exclude a certain category of administrative acts from judicial review at all. It will absolutely be true if we say that Parliament cannot abuse this, then the exception of art. 120, para. 2 to become the rule and the general clause the exception. But listen to some decisions of the Constitutional Court. The first of these is No 5, a very famous decision from 1997. The reporter is Pencho Penev. He is a great friend of mine, a great lawyer, your MP, your minister, then a constitutional judge. See what the Constitutional Court says. We are talking about administrative acts in the field of rail transport relating to the Law on Administrative Procedure, a decree on railway transport, which has the power of law. The National Assembly shall exclude judicial review. The Constitutional Court says: Law is the National Assembly: Because it is specific acts in specific activity related to the life and health of the Bulgarian citizens. It is a constitutional value which is comparable to the other constitutional property. 56. Exception No 2 that year, Decision No 18. The National Assembly then allows itself to exclude from judicial review acts of the Central Bank, the so-called withdrawals and certifications and the Constitutional Court in this Decision the same year says that the National Assembly is a right because the constitutional right of appeal competes with the rule of law that millions of depositors must be protected in order to reach a very popular decision. It was No. 4 of 2001, rousing many spirits, as it was associated with the football club "Levski" with millions of supporters, the expulsion of Michael Chorney, not owner, benefactor of "Levski" was, 20 million. My blue soul was torn apart, a 7-day sports report said: "Levscar slaughtered "Levski" but I voted that an act cannot be appealed when it is related to the national security of the country. I am not saying that Mr. Chorney was a danger, but so were the motives and the Law on Foreigners in Bulgaria does not allow. Everything went to the movies, and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. And if we have to sum up, the Constitutional Court says so: it can be excluded under art. 120, para. 2 not just the courts, at all the appeals, where constitutionally established principles and values can be competitors of the right to protection. And, generally speaking, the Constitutional Court revolves around this, as there is no orientation in the Constitution, unfortunately "national security," national sovereignty, the life and health of citizens and so on. And now for the matter of the instances. There are young colleagues here who are not lawyers. There is no doubt that a tri-instantial process has been introduced in Bulgaria: civil proceedings, criminal proceedings. The Supreme Administrative Court has been restored. I included this recovery in the SDS program. My late friend, Dr. Zhelev, says: "How come two courts, Jorro?" I say: "Jello, there was a Supreme Administrative Court, but after 9 September they closed it, we do not come up with anything new." So there's a tri-instantial trial because it says there are appeals courts, it says there's a Supreme Court of Cassation. And see what he says in Decision No 16 of 1998, I would like to emphasise: the chair of the composition is Zhivko Stalev.......................... if he is not the best lawyer in Bulgaria at all times, he is certainly the best proceduralist. His textbook for tens of years is a desktop book for many lawyers and will be read for centuries and we will not have a lawyer-trialist of that rank. So, says the Constitutional Court: "Yes, the rule is that there is a tri-instantial procedure. In supreme administrative justice, there may be two-in-one, but nowhere does the Constitution say there's a three-in-one. That is, there may also be exceptions in civil, criminal proceedings and so on to be bilateral and then we leave the changes in the PPC, which are up to two instances. The motives of the Constitutional Court are for this exception to the rule of speed in the process, discipline, legal certainty and non-abuse by law. If we hear all these decisions of the Constitutional Court, and there is nothing else to hear, because the Constitution says nothing under Article. 120, para. 2, and it cannot say, because life is stronger than anything, and it cannot all enter the Constitution, that it can not only limit the instances, but it can at all appeal against administrative acts, when it comes to national sovereignty, national security, also protected constitutional rights, such as the life and health of Bulgarian citizens, and if we switch to the particular case of national importance, objects of strategic importance in sectors such as energy, to one related to national security and national sovereignty, you are intelligent people and very well understand what it is about.................................... And so on. Tomorrow there will be an earthquake, what happened this morning and the rocks of Kresna will fall, and it's over! Boyko has to send the only or two helicopters we have to save. That is, in this case, our National Assembly might not even allow judicial review, it allowed a court to come to a decision. Don't say: The President, Georgi Markov, told us only decisions from the past millennium. Here, and from the new millennium................................................................................................................................................. The Constitutional Court in 2008 said: "There is justice when there is a legal dispute with the power of something awarded by a court referred to in the Bulgarian Constitution. I'm done with the legal part. I will allow myself to say a few things about the so-called NGOs. I'm an ordinary MP, and I don't want to be anyone else, I'm not a party member. This is an honor to me from GERB's civil quota. To the greatest regret the civil society in Bulgaria has degenerated and NGOs, some of which, with money from outside, are trying to get on the head of the national government in Bulgaria and in the other countries. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You are all Democrats, you all remember that the changes in Bulgaria started with ecomovements. There were both the left-hand side and the right-hand side and the eco-defense center. I've never been a member of the Eco-Voice, I don't understand many green things, but on 3 November I went to their procession of Eco-Voice. Neither Neshka Robeva nor Petar Slabakov nor Sashko Karakachanov was paid! We paid for posters and sang outside the parliament: For the first time we called on 3 November the bathroom windows were opened and there were employees to watch who these singers were, yelling: "Democracy!" they closed the windows. Nobody paid us. This is how the change was born in Bulgaria, so civil society was born. Now it has become paid Protestants, and it is trying to, and here I agree with the honourable Mrs. Ninova and I am glad that she is here, even though she has had an accident there is a parallel state in some cases. I have seen this parallel country, honourable colleagues, with my own eyes. I'm going three years ago, I'm not a skier, and I won't be, but I'm in love with Tina Maze, the Slovenian, I'm going to bring flowers to Bansko. I'm looking for a bouquet, I found it only bridal there, I took it, she married. [[Radio.]] I'm looking at the morning at the "Eurosport". this is a TV that watches it all over the world, shining Bansko, then some mountains, beautiful city, and on this background appear one after the other the favorite Tina Maze, then Lindsay Vaughn from the United States, then Lara Gut from Switzerland, then Anna Fenninger from Austria, beautiful, so blabbering, and good. And this against the backdrop of Bansko! I said, "Well, we have become a European country." After only half an hour I went upstairs to the VIP, not because I'm Georgi Markov, but because I'm a member of the BOC Bureau, they gave me a card and I took a path straight to the lift. When I looked at the other parallel Bulgaria, I saw thousands of ordinary Bulgarian citizens, not members of the BOC Bureau, standing in line for the only unhappy lift to go to the race. And now the mantle walks. When they pass the first 15, go look after them in the mist!? Well, there can't be a second lift in Bansko... [[Applause from GERB and shouts: "Bravo, bravo! "]] And we can't have human rights organizations... [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Look, this is not about BSP, GERB, Movement for Rights and Freedoms, this is about normal and abnormal. We cannot bring Bulgaria's biggest skiers, for which our Federation is also responsible, and try to have a second Popangelov, where we were running from pubs to watch him drive with Stanmark and Heidegger and not have a second lift! As there are in Austria and Switzerland! Bulgaria is the Republic, parliamentary, of course, I stress with government management. Because domestic and foreign policy is carried out by a government. Government, not government! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Under the Constitution, associations are not entitled to political activity. They allow themselves a hysterical political language. Protesters, if they want to rule, to make parties, to enter parliament, to make three stations, 30 or 300, to stop lifts, to stop development, to take to stop the subway, and I wonder how they didn't think of it. [[Laughter]] However, we are a parliamentary group of GERB who won the elections four times, we respect the state institution President, we respect the President himself, elected with two million Bulgarians, but we have the right to disagree with the veto and to move forward. Governmental democracy, not non-governmental democracy! Thank you. [[World and long applause by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Are there any lines? I won't. Here's your speech, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u27	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Our parliamentary group will not support the second vote on the Law and we will support the President's veto. Colleagues have put forward arguments. I also respect Mr. Markov's legal arguments, but we should split this subject into two. One, let's argue about the law with legal arguments. However, the other, as politicians, should we try to look wider at the principles, morals and the rule of law and the functioning of statehood. For legal arguments, everyone has their own, we, if you accept the Law for the second time, will submit it to the Constitutional Court with a complaint regarding the application of art. 125 of the Constitution. Yes, the Constitutional Court has ruled on similar cases, but for such cases it is not for dropping jurisdiction in the proceedings. That's why my colleagues and I are collecting signatures. The legal dispute and constitutionality will solve it the one in Bulgaria, who has these powers. But this is about something else. You're quoting lessons from civil movements. There must be some. But first let's look at ourselves, the political forces in these years, what we have done. How many times have we taken the liberty of breaking the law? How many of our decisions are there repealed by the Constitutional Court? That is, unconstitutional decisions have been made in this Chamber. Once exceptions............................... the second exceptions, the third exceptions....................................................... But so step by step we destroy statehood, the functioning of the institutions and mutual control between the authorities. This is supposed to be the big conversation here today. This is a discussion about statehood and the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u28	- What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the level of debate proves that he needed it and I will start a little bit further, because it is one thing to say what we are talking about today, but another is to see where we are going, and why this is important. You know enough historical references have been made. As early as 1987, Gro Harlem Brundtland wrote three times a Norwegian Prime Minister, a report under the auspices of the UN called Our common future. In this report for the first time appears the wording of a sustainable development which tries to combine sometimes conflicting interests, the vital need for economic development and prosperity, but also the need to preserve a quality environment, an environment that, apart from the biological and cultural life form that we need, is our main resource, an economic resource. Since then, this concept of sustainable development has been enshrined in economic policy and environmental policy throughout the world. From Rio de Janeiro through Kyoto and to the agreements in Paris are issued principles and there are dozens of conventions on this topic, dozens of conventions on which, in all cases, I repeat, all Bulgaria is a country. And if we set out the regulations and European directives that oblige us to comply with elementary standards, then we will probably have to stay here until tomorrow. In these standards, there is one thing in common with the insistence that an impact assessment should be ensured that this impact assessment should be controlled, i.e. if it is not there or if it is not good enough, then the administrative act issued on the basis of it should be repealed. That's the first thing in common. The second is the important role NGOs play. And I agree that we can have a problem with them and with their action as we can have a problem with the action of any organization. The question is really to guard against generalisations and from putting everything under a common denominator: just as we are all not masqueraders here, and all who express their civic position, including in the form of protest, have not been paid. The delegation of this civil movement is not for good. In addition to their common goal and the common elements of these documents in the veto with which the Law is returned, the President does not deny the existence of the problem, the need to resolve and plead for a balanced solution, not for any solution, not to leave things as they are, but to try to find a balanced solution precisely in the idea of this concept of sustainable development, to try to satisfy our needs without hindering future generations from satisfying theirs. I mean, a second lift, yes, but not so that there's no mountain tomorrow for which there's no lift at all. Let's have room for a second lift, but it's a matter of dialogue. We can't reach a dialogue if we're offended if we're being called from the street by you're all corrupt and we're returning them with you're all paid. Such dialogue cannot exist, so it is also so important to have judicial control, but not only to have it, but to be convincing enough. It's not about one, two, or three instances, it's about him being socially convincing enough. You understand how socially sensitive this topic is and practically every week in different places in Bulgaria there are different discontents, as some people went outside the house to protect their well with water from the investment they think they can contaminate it, they are not Protestants or organized in some network, and they are people who live there next to this well and need to be heard. If there is no judicial control where they are clearly convinced that all their concerns are unfounded, that the government has taken all these things into account, then they will seek protection of their rights on another path and this time it is better to be judicial than to be caught, it seems to us. And one more thing. The proposal, which we are discussing today for the second time, will not solve the problem of time and speeding up the process of realising an investment intention. The main motive of this Bill is that the realization of major projects is delayed for a very long time. But does anyone really seriously think that the second instance is what prevents the realization of the huge megaprojects that there is a waste of time?! Between the first and second instance, according to the reference we have, these cases are not so many, but between the first and the second instance, two or three months are lost. Where a lot of time is wasted is at the first instance, because these cases are of great factual, technical and legal complexity, a lot of time is wasted in the conciliation procedure, which at all comes to a decision that will be attacked. Do we really think there is no Hemus highway or new nuclear power because there is a second instance? Of course that's not the problem. The removal of this control will not solve in any way the problem that we are putting on ourselves, and here we are only talking about projects of national importance - megaprojects, major projects, the most important projects. Do you not find it illogical for the most important, for the biggest, for the most significant projects to reduce the control possibilities that we leave to exist for all other projects?! And here, during the first discussion, we went along this line as well. There have been proposals to expand the site, since we believe there is no need for second instance, for cassation control, then we should do it for municipal projects, and so on. You can see how we can slowly go to the opening of Pandora's box, what Judge Markov said about that constitutional balance between the possibility and its excessive use, twisting the principle of principles and exceptions to the contrary. And here we would already have a constitutional problem, because such a trend, ladies and gentlemen, seems to exist. Only seven months ago, amendments to the Law on the Construction of the Territory in the same style were adopted here. We removed one, second instance, removed the cassation appeal and seven months later could anyone say whether this led to speeding up the processes, as it was done with the same motive?! There's no such analysis. From the conversations that I have tried to make, rather not, as the first instance judge, feeling charged with even greater responsibility than the definition of his act, takes enough time to judge properly. That is, it is even limited by a term of the Law as we plan to do it. The administrative judge shall be sufficiently responsible for these important matters to prevent... After all, in our case, we are talking about irrecoverable damage to some natural resource, that is, the matter is significant. There are solutions, that is, if we reject this issue, this project does not mean that there are no solutions. For example: we can speed up the procedure without violating fundamental principles of law and without excluding the second instance, if we make enough changes to allocate jurisdiction to the courts in a new way, not to go all the way to the State, which is blocked, to go to other regional and administrative courts, where to specialize judges and a good organisation of courts, and good specialization of judges, then these cases at first instance will be decided more quickly. Again, between 1st and 2nd instance, it doesn't take that long. Such proposals have now been made in the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative-Processional Code, which we consider in the Legal Commission. The legislator may set shorter deadlines for a ruling, as long as we are well prepared enough to ensure that these people who will apply our laws do so qualitatively. The decisions exist, and we can find them, we have that power, as long as we show reason and understanding not only work on stubbornness. That's why we're pleading to honor the president's veto. This is not an end to the matter, it is a delay veto. We reject this bill and in a quick order we are making a bill which will, first of all, not create those dangers that there are now, second, will not create any questions about constitutionality, there will be no need to argue on this issue, argue or take it to court, and, thirdly, it will really solve the problem of delaying important public projects, which, I assure you, we all want to happen. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. First line. "The People's Representative Danail Kirilov, second "The People's Representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Zarkov, first of all, I want to assure you that we respect the president's veto, his statement. We analyzed it in detail, it contains five paragraphs. In each of them we have seen the meaning and encoded the content of its argumentation. But I'm taking a line to protect you from a few ridiculous notions. You have very much insisted on sustainable development, and I, as a non-green, accept categorically and indisputably that ecology is a part, an essential element and a component, and a prerequisite for sustainable development. The value that protects the Constitution is the environment. In your judgment you miss, apart from the Bulgarian Constitution, a very important international document is the Orhu Convention, which contains the standard of attitude towards ecology. The Orhu Convention obliges all its Member States to grant shared access to both citizenship and organisations. We are consistent in applying these principles, they are implemented and citizens are involved in any environmental procedure. Citizens shall participate in the public consultation on any environmental procedure. Citizens shall also participate by means of opinions and by appeal in the procedures which concern the classification of a national object. We added another criterion, another requirement of strategic importance, another essential requirement we added. Please, there is nothing in the motives for the Orhu Convention. The institutions are not interfering, culture and education are interfering, blackmail is interfering with the speed of realization of these objects. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Veselinov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I think that after the speech of the revered Mr. Markov all the legal arguments that veto supporters point out have been extremely lightened. Now we're going to talk about morality, about the power attitude of society, and colleague Zarkov asked the question where we're going. Well, we start from there that two thirds of the country's territory, including in our constituency, Mr. Zarkov, because we are from the same constituency, there is no infrastructure, no tourism can be developed, there is no development of the regions. Why? Because there are rules and natures that cover one third of the country, which during the rule of the BSP, the NDSV and the DPS, you formed it with the help of these same non-governmental organizations, which are the most vocal ones, for which the values in the life of the steppe ferret are important, if such an animal exists at all, but not the lives of living people who die daily in road accidents on unrepaired and unexpanded roads. They have turned into a business racket against the state and in the end prevent serious infrastructure projects from happening, if you will, the municipalities to develop. You are right, we from the United Patriarchs are reporting as a mistake the removal of municipal sites from the exceptions, but this is another topic. We have a very small number of objects that we need to save from turning around like Paragraph 22 in different court procedures. You say: for example we will save the funny three months of the second court. These three months can save Struma Motorway and end it with European money. For example, however, this may prove to be just as much a dedline (the deadline), not being able to cover them and having to direct our efforts elsewhere and end these objects with state money. In my opinion, it is good to have points of support, it is good to have blind opposition to everything that comes from the government and the majority, but it is good to have a sense of responsibility and of national interest. You were reluctant to postpone your proposals for the Food Act yesterday, although a new law is yet to be adopted. I think that now any delay will be inconclusive, and each of us must decide whether it is for the development of the regions or for the green mafia, and so vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u34	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Is there a third line? No. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Thank you to the replicators. I will try to make it very short to allow the other colleagues time to get involved in this debate, which is not a blind dispute and is not a good one or a bad one. It's no coincidence in the veto, and before that it says that a balanced solution is being sought. You are right and we, as people, appreciate your commitment to the fight to building important infrastructure projects for Ruse. You know you can count on us in that direction. However, the second instance is not the reason that the road Ruse has not been made in 25 years. It's not that! Why would I say that? Not to pick on, but because we'll never give the right answer if we don't put the right question first. The question of the second instance is without any bearing on this thing. You're saying three months could be key. They will be key, but because before that there was 20 years and there was a slight delay for various reasons. Mr. Kirilov, by the way, mentioned: it is not the instance that stands in the way. We realize that. There really isn't anyone who thinks that the second instance is the obstacle to the realization of these projects, is there? If there is abuse of rights, which there is most likely, in obviously unargumented appeals, which aim only to delay work, such things are there, abuse of any rights has and the solution to the problem of abuse of rights cannot be the revocation of rights. If we go down this road, we'll get where none of us want to go very quickly. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov! Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We, in the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB, maintain our motives and our position remains unchanged. We propose to re-accept the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection. And that's not a stubborn position. This is a clearly conscious, reasoned, justified and, in our opinion, a balanced position. Yes, nature is a greater good. It is a value for every Bulgarian citizen. Protecting nature and providing a clean and healthy environment is not only a right but also an obligation for each of us. And I believe this is the creed of each of the MPs. This is the shared understanding of Bulgarian citizens and it is not a reserved territory for a handful of people who call themselves the ecologists. We talked here about sustainable development. Sustainable development has three elements: environmental protection, a social and economic element, and we must look for balanced development. Bulgarian citizens have the right to live in a modern and developed state and we have committed ourselves to them as MPs, as people's chosen people, to work on it. Bulgarian citizens are entitled to secured basic infrastructure that guarantees both better living conditions and national security. This is the interest of Bulgarian citizens, this is the interest of our voters. We believe that the Law is in the interests of our citizens. It is in defence of the public interest because the amendments to the Law aim to speed up the procedures of objects of national importance of strategic importance and we believe the interest of citizens from their realization is indisputable. We have often seen serious delays due to long and prolonged, in some cases insufficiently well-founded appeals, rather self-targeted, I would say. They put at risk the realization of objects from the road, railway, port infrastructure, the transmission system, the electricity system, risks related not only to deadlines and financial security of these projects, but also to security, access, connectivity of territories, energy independence of the country, and in some cases to human life. With the maximum degree of attention and responsibility we have approached the drafting of the Bill, its presentation to the National Assembly and the adoption of the Law accordingly. I will briefly repeat some of the reasons that led us to the amendment that we have taken. First and foremost, we do not change the principle. We are introducing an exception only for certain cases with clear criteria, cases relating to national sites of strategic importance, close scope, which is applicable only by a decision of the Minister of Environment and Water, which is subject to control by the Supreme Administrative Court. They refer to sites designated by an act of the Council of Ministers as those of national importance. These acts of the Council of Ministers are appealed, subject to two-instance control. These are sites that are included in the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria " 2020," for reliable, efficient and cleaner energy or the integrated Transport Strategy in the period until 2030. One document was adopted by the National Assembly, the other by an act of the Council of Ministers, again appealed to two instances. Both documents, before being adopted, have passed the environmental assessment procedure. They have a solution for an environmental assessment which is subject to two-instant control, that is, we are already talking here about a fifth-sixth step in judicial control. The colleague refers to the convention, the so-called "Orhus Convention on Access to Information', public participation in the decision-making process and access to justice of environmental issues. Our entire legislation is built on the logic that citizens, the public must have access to information, the possibility to rule during the debates, to express opinions, opinions, to take part in decisions relating to the environment, to have maximum awareness and to undoubtedly have access to justice. This opportunity doesn't take anyone away. What we propose and adopt is the optimization of the procedures, led by the full awareness of the importance of the issues we are debating here and the sites that have a real priority for Bulgarian citizens. That's no precedent, that's no exception. Colleagues of lawyers have long and wide mentioned cases in national law where a reduction of controls is allowed. Undoubtedly, national legislation gives a series of such examples, but not only national and European legislation is in no way violated, and in other Member States of the European Union, there is an eligibility for a single-instructive appeal under procedures that concern environmental issues. One-instantially, it is the pronunciation and control in countries such as Denmark, Italy, Greece, Spain, precisely in relation to exceptions that concern important procedures and essential objects. The implementation of these projects, which we are talking about and which are included in the two national strategic documents, is often also linked to European funding, and we are all aware that European programmes have clearly defined deadlines. The programme covers the programming period and only within it Bulgaria has the opportunity to benefit from European solidarity, just to build or modernise the necessary basic infrastructure. Therefore, aimless or vague considerations of some organisations that constantly appeal procedures and thus delay the realization of the sites risk not being able to realise this opportunity for our country. That is why we believe that the Law does not restrict rights, but, in fact, restricts cases of abuse of law that have occurred in the past. Finally, since we are all aware that the issue is extremely important to our entire society, it has been repeatedly said that it must be put to public discussion. Honourable Members, how much wider the discussion can be, given that there is hardly any interested party, representative of institutions, civil organisations, NGOs, representatives of thought organizations, branch organisations, hardly anyone has spoken with an opinion, with regard to this Law. In this sense, we believe that our arguments and motives continue to stand with the same stability and strength. They are protective from the point of view of preserving public interest. I therefore call on all of us to support the re-acceptance of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Environmental Protection. Thank you for your attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva! Here's a line for you, Mr. Popov. First line from National Representative Philip Popov, second line from Ercan Ebatin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Vasileva, as far as I could hear and recorded, you said that no one deprives citizens of access to justice. Maybe to rephrase, but that was the point of what you said. You do not deny access to justice, but you restrict it, and that should be clear. I would like to ask you: I did not hear from you a thesis that the culprit for the failure of these projects is the second instance of the Supreme Administrative Court. If so, clearly say it and declare it from this tribune, but give enough evidence, give examples in this regard. And how long do you think you'll win by removing the second instance? Is it worth the time you want to save, which will not have virtually any effectiveness in order to realize these so-called so-called so-called so-called socially important projects, infrastructure important to Bulgaria, which we do not dispute in any way in order to limit, first, access to justice and cancel a second instance in such important public cases with high, enormous public interest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line.. People's representative Ercan Ebatin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u41	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, we should not only adopt this law and repeat our vote from the previous one, but we should do it an hour sooner, because the country must also develop the law in the country ahead of us in terms of reality. And the realities are such that external economic forces currently find mechanisms to put obstacles and poles in the development of the country. National interest is more important than anything. Strategic development, national priorities are more important than anything. Therefore, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the Law, as was adopted last time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u42	Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov, for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Vassileva, in the form of a reply, I would like to ask one of the reasons why it seems to me that it is a very clear question how long do you imagine that we will save with the cancellation of the cassation appeal? How long will a project speed up, given that you described the complexity of the entire procedure to reach it? How much? Two or three months. That's what I'm talking about. That's one thing. I'm putting it as a question. And secondly, you know better than many of us as a former minister how sensitive these issues are. Imagine when at first instance the three-member compositions give different solutions or permissions for similar cases and there is no second universality, what doubts, browsions and problems will ultimately lead to this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u45	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, I agree with Mr. Ebatine that the focus of today's attention are indeed objects that preside over the development of our country and the modernisation of our state. As regards the comments from colleagues on the left, I hold in my hands a list of contested decisions on procedures relating to environmental legislation, environmental impact assessment decisions relating to environmental legislation and assessments of compatibility with the objectives of the directives relating to the I can quote some of them in more detail, but I will provide them to you to get acquainted with you and see that objects of real importance to Bulgarian citizens, including one of the beams of the subway, including one of the lotts of the highway, which is already built in a past stage, including lots of other motorways, including first-class infrastructure. This morning I had the opportunity with your colleague to debate Mr. Kostadinov, who is actively involved in the debate, but also in his region the road Vidin Vratsa is subject to appeal and is currently under appeal. In my constituency the road Burgas is also Sunny Beach. There is almost no procedure that is not delayed in an appeal by more than a year, and in some cases by more than two years. In this sense, what you ask as a question may receive the following answer. First of all, we, with the changes that we have introduced in the Law, have given a deadline within six months, for which the court has to rule on appeal, that is, my expectations are that when applying the exceptions that we have adopted, the deadlines for the implementation of such important objects with a period of order of a year may be reduced, because, according to the legislation on the structure of the territory, it cannot proceed to the implementation of an investment project, to construction and installation activities, if there is no substantive act relating to the appeal arising from environmental procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u46	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. To speak, the people representative Atanas Kostadinov. Colleagues, are there any other speeches so that we can guide the MPs to the vote? There will be more speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Of course, the memories and shared practices of what was before 1989, especially by judges, are very important and valuable to us. I haven't had a chance to work before 1989 and realize myself simply because I'm younger than I am, I can look bigger to you. My feeling is different as if we're missing the essence of the problem. Questions regarding values, principled and political situations, colleagues, with all due respect, cannot be resolved legally. All the examples, the whole practice we give, and the debate about what a Constitutional Court or another court would say is not the content of this issue that we are discussing. Before we get to the point, I want to tell you at least three things that give me the creeps and that I want to share with you. When this tribune speaks of absolutely all non-governmental organizations as racketeers and finger waving, and applauding in spirit and enthusiasm, I tell you, it gives me the creeps. There are abuse practices and so-called green racketeering. There are malicious and ill-intentioned practices, but when most of the House enjoys the qualification of civil society and citizens as almost bandits and impostors, it gives me the creeps. The second thing I want to share with you, which gives me the creeps, is this: it is not possible for you to know how the last instance will end, whether it will be one or two. When you despise that by cutting off the second instance you will move faster cases, it means, colleagues, that you know the outcome of an appeal, even at first instance. Sorry, that gives me the creeps, too. Are we going this way? Thirdly, if, God forbid, the second instance interferes with European projects, why have we entered this European family in the first place in 2007? The first country to prevent any procedural proceedings will be Bulgaria. I don't know what time I have, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u48	You have four minutes. Maybe you can extend the time. If you'll excuse me, it's an extension of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u49	With regard to the content issues, indeed after President's Decree No 175, there are some elements that I would rather look at more in detail. I'd like to focus mostly on art. Article 15 55 of the Bulgarian Constitution, which, again, I say, is that any legal and legal interpretations as if here will not be very relevant to try to understand exactly what the President means. There is a very characteristic feature of nature, colleagues, which we, as the highest life form in the food chain, need to know. Nature can't speak. No matter how much we love her, no matter how much we protect her, no matter how much we protect her for generations, there's a simple feature of nature that can't speak. Therefore, in principles and values, in what is set before any legislation, whatever the laws, there is a principle that I mentioned in the Commission, the Roman principle. It's in Latin, in dubio pro natura, in favor of the presumption of nature protection. Always the human being as the last resort in the food chain must in its actions, and this is also written in art. 15, where it is said that the Republic of Bulgaria must provide such an environment and thus maintain a living development of living nature that is sustainable, human beings must always, with a presumption in the protection of nature, comply with their actions. I think that's what's in art. 55, where it is already said that citizens have the right to do so, this is trying to tell the president the veto. Dear colleagues, not as a freight train through a abandoned station, not just formally, do a new consideration of the matter, of course, in accordance with the National Assembly's Rules and with the Constitution. In our proposal, in which we, together with you, want the fast track, for the two stations, first and second, of 3 months each, I want to assure you that it can be achieved and we are also not satisfied that someone is trying to abuse, especially the big infrastructure and national significant projects. It doesn't make sense, and it's a paradox to have, on the one hand, a nationally significant project, and on the other hand, to want to cut out one of the instances. In essence, the concession appeal of a first instance decision is a procedural law, which, excuse me, is in the Constitution. That's what we're discussing. We need a relevant legal instrument of the nationally important things that we are discussing. And I'll tell you, here you come out one by one and everyone spits out a pebble, or the second lift of Bansko; the Struma; it was heard about the railway. Look, we're not kids. It's only natural for everyone to spit out one of these. It's normal, it's human, it's understandable, you protect and each one of us protects something from our own regions. But you know what's best for Bansko's second lift, Struma and the railway infrastructure? It shall be absolutely lawful and no one shall have the right and may not appeal it in the manner in which it decides, and a guarantee thereof shall be the procedural right of the second instance. That is why I ask you in the context, and by this I end up in a review or a new examination, what Mr. Glauchev has written to us following Decree No 175, let us take into account really, if you would call it a sustainable development.If you would like to take a little more insight into the business and investors and all those who drive the economic development of Bulgaria, let us say the following: Yes, respected by the Chamber of Construction and by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, we have an option for this. Without violating and cutting legal bases and procedures, we will insist on the so-called fast track, first and second instance, not less than 6 months. Mr. Kirilov better than I can give dozens of examples in which the second instance in the administration of justice is obliged to considerably shorter terms as an example of the Election Code. That's not impossible. Secondly, apart from the Bulgarian business and investors, we want to tell citizens, not only in connection with the Orhu Convention, not only in relation to the fact that, here we talk a lot of common colleagues, citizens at each level have the right to participate. It's like saying 300 passengers on the plane are involved in the flight management just because they're riding. That's pretty much how we approach civil demands. The pilot, the pilot of the flight, is the pilot of the plane. And to convince them that they are involved in the government or they are ruling is demagogy. That is, we want to tell them: you will have legal protection in relation to the second instance. Not only will we hear from you at every stage, but we will give you this opportunity. The third thing we want to say, however, is to NGOs: no one will ever compromise with, first of all, fictional organisations, second with imaginary demands, and, third of all, who have proven maliciously and deliberately harmed the development of these projects. That is why I would rather insist on our proposal and see it as balanced because on the right hand side is the fast track and on the left hand side is the respect for legality. This way we will have a quick procedure, and we will not violate something which I think is largely the conquest of the Bulgarian jurisdiction. Mrs. Vasileva is right that there are many examples in Europe that there are one-in-one instances. Yes, but just as much, Mrs. Vassileva, as the examples of uniformity, are the two-instantial proceedings. So we will certainly, because we believe in this thing and it is not just about legal technique, but about values, we will move on to an interpretive request from the Constitutional Court, but we are giving you a hand and offering to see what is reasonable in this option that we are offering you because we are honest. Yeah, we don't want the business to be shut down. Yeah, but we want this to be legal. Finally, perhaps to bring your attention to the end, I would rather joke and ask you rhetorically the following: do you not think, colleagues, that the second reading of the bills is extremely slowing down the legislative process, stopping Bulgaria's economic development and in a certain way pulling us away from the European Union? Doesn't it make sense, honourable Members, that we cut off the second reading of the bills? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, to meet the expectations of society and business. In a broader sense, we all have the self-esteem that we do our work as MPs well enough. I don't think so. And if we don't do our job well, shouldn't we in any way bypass the National Assembly in order for the state to develop much better ahead? Please, these are very serious questions, so I'm putting them this way. I believe that our hand will be accepted because it presents a very balanced, sustainable and legitimate option. Thank you once again for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? Here you go. Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kostadinov, you have given a lot of examples of important infrastructure projects in Bansko. But I would like to ask you another question regarding the high-speed four-way Sofia - Vidin, which was included by the government of Oresharski in the Operational Programme "Transport 2014 " 2020." He was subsequently removed from the Operational Programme "Transport" as a priority by Mr. Borisov's next government. And my question is, who is now responsible for the non-realization of this project, the then and current rulers, or the second judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u52	Do you think that's a line, Mr. Popov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u53	It's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u54	You think it's a line?! Come on, read what is written in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u55	Honourable Mr. President, honourable Members, honourable colleague, honored guests! First of all, I would like to clarify in this debate the following. Emotionally started the thesis, right, by our speaker Georgi Markov, the reference to the lift of Bansko, but I would like to assure you that there is no reference to projects concerning Bansko. Please don't move, don't change the focus of the debate. It is about objects, firstly, of national importance and, secondly, those of strategic importance. Bansko and lift are not in either of the two strategies that we have listed in the Law as an additional criterion. I'm tempted to talk about the creeps my colleague is experiencing, but I'm gonna miss them. [[Cheerful excitement in GERB.]] I'm just gonna comment on the weather. In your speech, first of all, you forgot what was established in the proposal of the Law, which is challenged by the veto of the President "six months." Six months! The lawmaker's will in this text is generally to compress the judicial procedure. The legislator has the right to determine the time of one production. Otherwise, with regard to subsequent control, I did not want to develop the thesis from the outset, but, notice, the first instance in these disputes is always the Supreme Administrative Court. It shall always meet in a Chamber of three Judges, colleagues. Whether or not there will be a subsequent five-member commitment to understand, it is pointless, it is pointless. If three judges in one court have taken one decision, they will maintain it in the five-member format. Here even elementary mathematics does not endure, there is no way to change or to substantially revise the practice and opinion of this court. There is no point in loading our Supreme Court with two proceedings for the same thing. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a third line? Mr. Kostadinov, please answer Mr. Kirilov's line and Mr. Philip Popov's supplementary question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u57	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Since you consider Mr. Popov's line admissible, I will do my best to answer it. In my opinion, Mr. Popov, some kind of lack of carelessness, political inferiority or something like that has taken out of the TENT network list this object and what the European corridor suggests about this section of the road, but I am not competent in this area. It's just a hypothesis. Bulgaria does not follow its priorities, does not comply with them and as if this should become more and more clear and be something that will never happen again. That's the reason it didn't happen this time. Mr. Kirilov, whom I have known for a long time, has put me in a very delicate situation as a non-jurist to comment on his words, I think he is a good lawyer, and to tell him the following. There are only two options, Mr. Kirilov. Or are you trying to fool most of the people? I don't believe you think it's true what you're saying. You know better than I do that the substantive right side of the second instance cannot be resolved in relation to the first. There is only a ruling on legality. You cannot tell us here that it is in principle meaningless the second instance of the Administrative Court, since it is clear that we are fighting for legality and not for the underlying, factual, legal side of the matter. I don't think it's right what you're doing as an interpretation. I'm sorry to say I'm not a lawyer and I'm a little far away from those words. I thank you once again and, in conclusion, I urge you to choose the sustainable version of the Bill, to respect our fellow Members, the legality and to move forward. Thank you. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Speaking.. People's representative Mladen Shishkov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The main thesis that advocates the veto is the protection of rights. Realizing the aspirations of the Presidential Administration to be respected art. 15 of the Constitution, namely the obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria to ensure the protection of the environment, we of the Political Party GERB also strongly support and follow policies that promote environmental protection. However, by reading the veto's motives, we remain with the feeling that the focus is shifting and ignoring the fact that single-station production is offered only for objects of national importance and strategic sites. Artificially implants the feeling that fundamental principles of democracy are being violated. Dear colleagues, let's name things by their real names. The current change is proposed because half a dozen organizations allow themselves to abuse rights. The fight is precisely against those who have turned unfair practices into their profession. The fight is against those who do not give the account that the endless appeal leads to violation of another constitutional right.................................................................................... 28. If we continue to refer to the Constitution, we will find that a subsequent constitutional law is being violated................................................................................................. 35. Not allowing or delaying the process of building objects of national importance, these same organizations do not give the account that they thus create prerequisites for the loss of tens, hundreds, and perhaps thousands of lives, because the objects of national importance, colleagues, directly concern human life! If constitutional rights can be graded, categorically, no doubt the right to life is the highest human right. Let us not allow this right to be measured with political and economic measurements. We believe that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria is a reasonable politician, will realise what the real struggle is and will take the right position. In addition to environmental organisations, opinions have also presented a number of other non-governmental and branch organizations that support the bill. The President must be the leader of all the people, taking sides, building barriers in society, and division leads to conflict. We very much hope that's not the purpose of the veto. Honourable colleagues of the opposition, we accept your arguments for the two-installed proceedings with instructive quarterly deadlines. However, we cannot agree that the fast track that you are proposing will work effectively. Do you know what disloyal techniques are being used right now? Organisations which appeal against the acts of the Minister of Environment and Water for four months, notice that the fee of BGN 10 is not paid by the Minister of Environment and Water for four months. For the start of the proceedings, despite the appeals of the court! Explain to us, colleagues: which court will rule within three months, provided that the proceedings have not started within four months?! Of course, it is important to have a wide range of possibilities for expressing a position, but let us not allow this to be abused! Let us not allow ourselves to face the choice between human life and the habitat of green euglena, colleagues! Without a moment's hesitation, I stand behind the man. Please, do the same! Doubt in the selfless work of the so-called eco-protective organizations is also awakening the fact that they are being activated very selectively and purposefully. They only appear when there are economic interests. Moreover, through their activities they have managed to seize and become sole owners of nature, and it must be accessible to everyone! I live in an area where there has been a potential environmental problem for years and yet I have no recollection of any of the six eco-organizations that has offered a benefit to solve this problem. In essence, shouldn't this be the main subject of the activities of these organisations? Three months ago, Rakovski municipality was gassed by a fire at the Shishmantsi Eco factory and no reaction from the defenders, although extremely many migratory birds were poisoned, nesting nearby. To leave the birds, the respiratory diseases in children and adults have increased sharply. What exactly are you protecting, ladies and gentlemen? Where are you today when the plant burns again and again the harmful atmospheric emissions are at critical values? How did you help to overcome these problems? Where were you when tens of thousands of acres of Bulgarian forest burned over Kresna? In addition to the forest, thousands of other birds and animals were destroyed that inhabited this forest. These and many other similar examples raise doubts in us and lead to conclusions on the effectiveness and objectives of these organisations. Mr. President! Colleagues from the opposition! Again, I appeal to you with a call: do not encourage these unfair practices. Let us, with joint efforts, overcome this stage in the development of our young democracy, and I am convinced that someday the old text will be restored again. Let's return nature to the people. It's a matter of political will. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Shishkov. [[Applause from GERB.]] - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Christov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! From the debates to the moment I am impressed that we have almost identical speeches, lines and corresponding duplicates. I will not cheat on myself, I will not take up time with long and long speeches, but I will just try to give one, as usual, and in the style of.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u62	Just for a moment, Mr. Hristov, please, your gaze must be directed at Mr. Shishkov, who just had a speech and the line must be to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u63	I'm glad, Mr. Glauchev, that you can see where my eyes are.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u64	That's what the rules say.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u65	Thank you. After all, I'm a rookie, and I hope you'll forgive me. [[Noise and lines.]] I'll read yes. To go on. We are focusing here on whether we need to have a shorter period of time so that we can not stop such strategic projects and, of course, the answer is: yes, we must have as short a time limit as possible, but whether the reason for the delay is the second instance, or whether the reason for the delay is the slow procedures and the slowdown by the judiciary. We, instead of making sure that we speed up all the procedures a little bit, now we decide that we will remove the second instance. However, if, let's say, the next National Assembly, God forbid, is more dynamic than ours and decides that it is a relative concept................................ and the first instance is too slow, what will we do? Are we gonna take out the first instance? Why should we remove the second instance instead of speeding up deadlines and forcing the judiciary not to age cases three years and things to happen a little faster?! I think this is something that we need to focus on and work together. Thank you. I'm sorry I wasn't looking where I was supposed to be, but Mr. Tsvetanov had my attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u66	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Looks like he's drawing a lot of attention, Mr. Tsvetanov. Here you are, though, Mr. Shishkov. Are there any other statements? Mr. Tsvetanov, personal explanation or statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u68	A statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u69	For a statement. My eyes will be directed at my colleagues who are against me. It is very important when we take the floor to comment on the legislation, at least to have read it. What is being proposed, and what we are going to confirm today, is that the Law be passed again and reject the veto. We have been betting a speed of six months so that the country can actually move on national infrastructure projects in a direction that will ensure the development of the regions and our country. I believe that today's debate was quite different from all the other debates that we have conducted under laws on which we have different opinions. I would like to thank all Members of Parliament for the tolerance and arguments that have been put forward by each of the parliamentary groups. We have all remained extremely satisfied with competence and very correct speech at the beginning of the debate by Georgi Markov, who gave examples of constitutional decisions and we as MPs do not really have the concerns that we will adopt a Law that will be unconstitutional. We are adopting a Law by which we actually guarantee the protection of all those involved in this process, but most importantly, we will have a six-month period and we will be able to actually move in the right direction in management programmes and in the priorities set out by both the government and the Bulgarian Parliament. Since from a legal point of view, we have absolutely no problem with the arguments that were put forward by Georgi Markov, I just want to say that there should be a second aspect which should be appropriate, because, honourable Members, all who travel along the road section Blagoevgrad, Sandanski, know what is happening and what this section is known for. This is actually the section, the route, which is called the bloody route of Bulgaria. Just to say that in recent years, given that there has been a sharp reduction in road casualties, comparable for years, when we had over a thousand people from 2012 to 2016, according to DMV data, there were 893. Just make the conclusion of the 893 crashes, when they happen in a traffic jam, how many harmful emissions are coming out of these cars in the mileage queues that are being created. Here's your first argument to protect ecology and actually be partners with non-governmental organizations. For me there are always the victims on the roads, because in this period, in this section you see that almost every kilometer there is a stone plate, marking which person died there. There are 52 victims in total. Fifty-two victims are right on this track. The number of wounded is 300, which makes them unable for a long period of time, some remain for the rest of their lives. Last but not least, we should bear in mind that at the moment the Operational Programme "Transport and Transport Infrastructure" is in danger of the state returning about one billion leva for all these delayed procedures and this delay in time. We are nationally responsible politicians and I am convinced that today, when we reject the veto, this will be a very clear sign that we respect the legality, we respect the President's motives, but the arguments in plenary today were stronger and that is why we will support the Law and reject the veto of the President because Bulgaria and Bulgaria's priorities are above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u71	I have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u72	Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u73	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, your speech sounded like demagogy to me. It is very clear that you will support the bill after you voted in front of it. You understand the bankruptcy of the arguments you make. Otherwise, in the formulation and desire to master European funds, yes, we all want to have more objects of national importance and strategic sites that will contribute to the feeling of Bulgarian citizens that they are Europeans. But do you have the desire to build only highways? Because I think you're building a little bit! What is bothering you is clearly the Law, clearly the legal framework with which we entered the European Union. Remember, 2007 our legislation was adopted to be synchronised with the EU member states. Aren't you worried that by changing legislation at the moment, we will be qualified as a country that does not comply with the regulation established in the Member States of the European Union. Even more so, what do objects of national importance mean? Is the South Stream pipeline included by your understanding in the so-defined text on amendments to the Law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u75	Thank you. Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, we are not against the development and implementation of such important infrastructure projects. We are opposed in practice to the destruction of statehood and the deprivation of Bulgarian citizens from their basic rights to access to justice, to a second instance. We're against that. Do you really think that the second instance or these six months are actually responsible for these tragedies that happen on the Bulgarian roads? I don't think so! There is no logic in what you claim and do not try to transfer this hot potato from the lack of realization and construction of these objects from the executive to the judiciary. No, no! It's not your fault. It's the executive's fault. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mr. Stoinev, come in. Third, last line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I strongly object to the way in which you have tried to speculate precisely with today's veto of the President. You seem to have some sort of complex of President Radev because several times... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u78	Please, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u79	...you say that this will almost be a great victory for you. What's more, I'm really outraged that you're connecting him to the road victims. This has nothing to do with this! After all, this fight must be fought for real. Then we will continue with the Roads Act and I am glad that you have accepted our proposals, for which I will congratulate you and express my gratitude. But when you get over this veto, you need to know that this is not because of those arguments that you said, but because you have a very large majority of you, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is with you, will support you, but don't involve the victims on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u81	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleagues on the left, who have laid out your lines! First of all, let me tell you in no way do we want to enter into this confrontation that you want to introduce us to the presidential institution, but we stick to the constitutional provisions and the opportunities that give the presidential institution to veto, which the President has taken advantage of with the relevant motives. In their small part, they are justified. And it was exposed by the brilliant Georgi Markov, a constitutional judge who gave a lot of arguments. The very fact that there were no lines to his speech meant that everyone agreed by all the MPs present. That's the first thing I read in my speech. Of course, the other is an option. For me and for you and for all MPs, it is a commitment to reduce casualties on the road. You say: don't mess with this topic! No, we're not playing around. We say that these legislative changes proposed and adopted allow within six months to complete this procedure. This is for all national strategic sites. As far as the South Stream is concerned, as asked by colleague Iankov, I can say that EIA is also closed for the old procedures this does not come into legal effect, but we are talking about a gas hub, we are talking about the Motorway. I, as a national representative and as a person who travels a great deal, can tell you that it is also extremely important to me by the MPs from GERB, who are from the multi-mandated electoral regions of the territory of Northern Bulgaria... they want the highway............................. to be implemented and to be done as quickly as possible, because we know that human lives will be saved there as well. If this is a theme for you to play with, I can argue with arguments, but in no case should we say that this is a theme that someone can play with. I can tell you that the legislation we are adopting, the very fact that it is not contrary to the Constitution, and what Georgi Markov has said, with the constitutional decisions that were mentioned by him and before European law, we have absolutely no problems because it is not violated by the adoption of national law under this Law. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I re-vote the Law amending and supplementing the Environmental Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017. In order for the Law to be adopted again, it is necessary to have at least 121 votes for the Law. Please vote. Vote 218 MPs: 138, against 78, abstention 2. The Environmental Protection Act adopted by the National Assembly on 27 July 2017 has been re-approved. First negative vote on the national representative Tasco Ermenkov. [[People's representatives are leaving the Chamber.]] Please, honourable Members, if you are leaving this House, do it quietly!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u83	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the vote in favour of the adoption of these texts by the Law for one single reason. The reason is called: rule of law in Bulgaria. And what we all have to protect are the interests of the people and the control of the judiciary not being violated in any of its aspects. What you accepted with the uniform institutional resolution of the various cases supposedly in strategic sites is a mistake, in my opinion. This mistake will soon be corrected because life will correct you, not just us as opposition. I would also like to tell you something else: because the right must be universal and the approaches also to it, I am very worried that if you had introduced a single institutional or even two-institutional administration in private cases, your chair of the parliamentary group should be in prison today. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u84	Mr. Ermenkov! Are there any other negative votes? Dear colleagues, an exhibition of the great personalities of the 20th century will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. The author Valentin Ivanov presents portraits of historical personalities and our contemporaries, who contributed to Bulgaria. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. It's 11:30. At 12:00 we continue a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u85	Dear colleagues, we are continuing our work for today. We have a sequel from yesterday on point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE MOVEMENT OF THE ROADS. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Let's wait a minute, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u86	Paragraph 5a.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u87	Proposal of the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov, Petya Avramova for the creation of a new § 4b.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u88	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes two new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The transfer of ownership of a registered vehicle to a person without a permanent address or an address registration in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be carried out in accordance with para. 2 after termination of registration of the vehicle and return of plates with registration number to the relevant road vehicle registration service. (4) The Ministry of Interior and the Notary Chamber shall exchange electronic information on vehicles registered in the country and contracts concluded. (5) In the case of a transaction with a road vehicle, the acquirer may request prior preparation of the registration certificate if no replacement of registration plates is carried out and the information shall be submitted to the Ministry of Interior together with the information on the contract concluded.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u89	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals to create a new § 6 with its corresponding content in accordance with the Commission's report. Vote 89 MPs: 85, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u90	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 145 the following 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. In para. 2 the words in a two-week period to provide the registration service with a copy of the property acquired with the data of the right-holder shall be replaced by within one month to register the acquired vehicle in the vehicle registration service at the permanent address or registered address of the owner, except where the road vehicle has been acquired by a trader for sale. 3. Alinea 3 is canceled. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The provisions of para. 2 shall also apply to the acquisition of ownership of a road vehicle outside the Republic of Bulgaria or the acquisition of ownership through public sale.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u91	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 7 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote on § 7 on the Commission report. They voted 105 MPs: for 105, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u92	Proposal by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: § 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In the case of aid granted under A driving licence shall be issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to a person who has completed the X class and in the presence of the conditions under para. 1 which is physically fit to drive motor vehicles for the relevant category, has passed training for the driver of a motor vehicle and for first-aid and which has successfully passed a driving test.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u93	Statements? I won't. [[National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor of speech.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We will not support the proposed text for two reasons. The first reason is that we believe that there are purely discriminatory motives in the introduction of this text, and the second is that it does not solve any problem, but it creates more of them. What do I mean? Problems with fake books are actually a huge problem, and a driver who has a fake license, he first has not passed the conditions that para says. 1.. to have passed the appropriate course, to have completed training, to meet the requirements, and when we lift this threshold now, we are practically sending several tens of thousands more people who cannot meet these requirements and these conditions. They cannot acquire the right and drive these courses at all, acquire the competence, and they are looking for other ways to obtain a driving licence. One way is to obtain a fake one that happens, from countries of the European Union, not to list them, but according to agreements that Bulgaria has as part of the European Union. When they bring this driving licence from abroad, it was France, Spain, the Czech Republic, Greece, it didn't matter, it happened. The Bulgarian authorities are obliged to issue the equivalent in Bulgarian version. Then we get this situation: he gets a driving licence, but he hasn't passed the courses he has to pass by law. In fact, with this decision, we will now send several tens of thousands of unauthorized road guides who will be kamikazes. In the next few years, after the amendments to the Law on School and Preschool Education, I believe that the text should be postponed by at least a few years to respond to what it has as a policy. At the moment it is a contradiction and creates more problems than to solve such problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, this is actually an active text. A valid text, the amendment of which was made by the Preschool and School Education Act: the entry into force was postponed for 2024 and, as you know, here all MPs were then reproached by the whole society for accepting something good, but we have postponed it for so long in time. In fact, delaying means exactly what you are saying that we will have incompetent drivers. Because of these people from now on, who, under the new Law, will receive primary education in the 7th grade, we shorten the period of schooling and will actually have the opportunity to obtain a driving licence with an education that is one year shorter than this until now. I will make one clarification so that all citizens who have received primary education under the old Law do not have any confusion. The new rules apply only to those young people who will receive primary education under the new Law. Our goal is for them to stay up to the X class in school, to be longer in the educational system, because besides better driving skills, will guarantee them and then more opportunities for realization in the labour market.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Are there any other lines? Mr. Letifov, will you do the doppelganger? No. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 8 with its respective content on its report. They voted 130 MPs: 113 against 14, abstention 3. Paragraph 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u98	Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 165, para. The following amendments 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words from 0,5 to 1000 shall be replaced by more than 0,5 per thousand. 2. point 9 is amended as follows: Nine. do not allow the driving of a motor vehicle by a driver who refuses to be tested with a technical device for the detection of alcohol and/or a test for the detection of the use of drugs or their analogues, or does not comply with the prescription for testing by a evidence analyst showing the concentration of alcohol in the blood by measuring it in the breathed air and taking into account the alcohol content in the upper respiratory tract, or for medical examination and biological sampling to determine the concentration of alcohol in its blood and/or for the use of narcotics or their analogues; if, in carrying out technical or test, a concentration of alcohol above 1,2 per thousand and/or the use of narcotics or their analogues is established, the official of the control service accompanying the person to the place of medical examination and biological sampling for chemical testing;
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u99	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 9 with its respective content on its report. They voted 133 MPs: 128 against 1, abstention 4. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u100	Proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: screated § 4b: 4b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 167, para. 2, p. 2 at the end of the sentence, a comma shall be placed and added if it is not possible to be paid on the spot at the time of service of the ticket or the act for the identification of the offence. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u101	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! What is involved in the proposal of our group of MPs? When you are jacked up by the car, due to an unpaid fee or parking time, you may have the opportunity to have two options available to you by the employee of the control service, if you have money on the spot, and to have the car released immediately, or to have an act or a ticket drawn up for you, or the relevant document that you need, if you do not have money on the ground, you do not have that option and the car released. Currently the hypothesis is as follows: park in a blue zone, pay two hours, miss 10 minutes, comes the control service, puts you in a clamp, then you go to the car, you don't have 39 leva, or as much as the price for the municipality, you don't have that kind of money to pay the fine on the spot, the car stays until 19.00. At 19.00 arrives the spider that repatriates the car, drives it to a criminal parking lot. You already owe 100 leva there. 30 leva. clamp plus sixty-something leva to repatriate. But you don't have 100 leva again. in you and start raining two levs an hour until you get a salary, a pension, a scholarship or whatever. That is, we have a racketeering attitude of a state, a municipality or an office for control over Bulgarian citizens. Therefore, the proposal we are making is that I think that this was at least unspokenly supported by the Ministry of Interior, and I would like Deputy Minister Tzipov, if he may, to say their reasons for this amendment to be adopted. We, as legislators and as people who represent the Bulgarian society, have no right to turn our constituents into hostages. Worse than that, we don't make them hostages for a municipality or government officials, and in most cases they're private companies or commercial companies. That is to say, we're placing racketeering behavior on some commercial companies that are fulfilling some kind of commitment to the municipalities. The other argument I would also like to introduce you to is that there is no other infringement in the country to confiscate property for. There isn't one! Karate drunk, speeding, hitting a man, killing a man on the road, your car is not confiscated. You stop by half an hour more. You have not paid, your car is held back and is confiscated until the time you take out and pay the fine. There's no such thing as a violation! There are many lawyers here, correct me if I'm wrong. I have set an example under the VAT Act and the Customs Act. The goods are confiscated there if the customs duty is not paid. My appeal to you is really to give a sign. And the arguments that it would be difficult to collect the fine, you understand that it is not the problem of the intruder, is not the problem of the legislator? This is the business company's problem, which has to do its job. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'll ask very briefly. Yes, Stanislav will now ask me if I am a road traffic specialist. I'm not, but I have a question because people are asking me in the reception room who are coming. For example, if I'm the breach of the rules, I'm being sanctioned, and I want to pay with a debit or credit card. What do we do in this case? In Bulgaria, payment with debit or credit card is equivalent to payment in cash. If those who sanction are not equipped with POS terminals, what do we do? When are we gonna fix this thing? I'm not kidding. People come to the reception room and ask that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u105	It's a personal matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u106	There's a word for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, with regard to POS terminals, wherever they are, this is a question for banks, not the Centre for Urban Mobility. If the bank decides and benefits, it can. If there is no benefit, no one can oblige the bank to provide its own device to be installed anywhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u108	Second line supposed by the public representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u109	Who will oblige people to carry money in their pockets?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Gokov, I remember that there was a debate to reduce the cash payment and to do so through POS terminals. Your parliamentary group was very opposed to the argument that this would increase people's spending, that there was no possibility that they wanted to pay cash. Otherwise it will be the same as if you want to buy bread in a rural store and want to pay with a debit or credit card. Remember your arguments a few months ago. Now all of a sudden you're making reverse arguments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u111	Third line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, you may not have been able to properly ask the question, or your colleagues did not understand it. We're shifting the discussion. It's not about what you're paying for right now. We talk when you don't have that 100 leva. in your pocket, because you get 280 leva. minimum pension. And whether they're in a debit or credit card, it doesn't really matter. Mr. Ivanov says someone had to invite the banks. No, the company that does the service has to invite the bank. And there's no bank that refuses to put up a POS terminal when it collects money and fees. But that's not the point right now. The theme is whether cars will be released when you pay at the moment, or you will have the opportunity to draw up an act, and then the fine can be two or three times higher. That is, if you pay on the spot, the fine is 30 BGN, and if you pay with a ticket. This is adopted by a decision of the relevant municipal councils. That is the subject we are questioning.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u113	A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I understand very well the subject of the discussion. I put the question from the point of view that if you have money in a debit or credit card, but you don't carry cash, you end up in the same position if you take 280 levs. You don't have the money to pay the fine. From this point of view, I'm asking the question. Mr. Lazarov, what you're saying is absolutely in my favor. You want to reduce payments in cash, and there are schizophrenic behaviors in some places we are talking about one thing, and in other bills we are talking about absolutely different. One is to go to a rural store and buy bread voluntarily, the other is that they force you to pay a fine, but they don't give you the opportunity to pay a fine. Mr. Ivanov, you can't oblige someone to put POS terminals in taxis. And how can you oblige people to carry cash money in their pocket if they're worried about it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u115	I'm not messing with you. I'm just saying what the practice is.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u116	It's not about nagging, but I'd like to say what the practice is in this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u117	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here's your speech, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here opposed those who commit violations and should bear a penalty, and people who voluntarily go to buy something and have to pay for it. Let's not put things on this plane. Whoever committed a violation and proves that someone forced him to do it is a different matter. Violations are done consciously, I wouldn't say voluntary. From there on, it's the question of payment. The examples of how to pay are inappropriate. It's normal for anyone who commits a violation to do the math on how they're going to pay. If there's no cash, there's a debit card to go and download from the ATM. This is about small and not large amounts, which is subject to regulation in another law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u119	The line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u120	Mr. Lazarov, we're not talking about paying a fine here. If it were a matter of paying a fine to the state - okay, fine to the municipal budget - well. Here we are talking about a fee service that goes to a trading company. This has nothing to do with the municipal and state budget, nor with any public interest, goes to a trading company. In larger cases these are private companies entrusted with the parking control activity. And all of us here, representatives of Bulgarian citizens, stand behind these racketeers and say to them, "Hold the people's cars until they pay. Tell me, if a citizen comes to your reception room and asks you the question, how will you answer it? Personally, I can't answer him. I don't know with what eyes you protect these people and this way of interacting with Bulgarian citizens?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u121	Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u122	Mr. Chairman, my speech was in a different direction. The subject was raised in another plane. When you repair your car at an auto shop and refuse to pay because you don't have the funds, do they let you drive it?! You won't get it until you pay for it! There are thousands of such hypotheses. If you give yourself a repair and refuse to pay, or want to pay in a week, you will receive it in a week. We're talking about private companies. It's a different subject here. I don't know why it's being transferred to another plane. The theme was about violations and payments because you committed a violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u123	It's about pay, not a violation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u124	Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Markov, it has been a pleasure listening to your statement on the previous Law. On the continuation of the debate on constitutional rights, I would like to ask: is there in the Bulgarian legal peace another act of administrative punishment to restrict constitutional and property rights?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u126	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u127	Mr. Kirilov, for the property rights Mr. Markov may answer if he is here, but let us also answer the question, if you can also: is there another service for which, if you do not pay, they hold you, your means or your property on the basis of law?! Not on the basis of commercial relations, but on the basis of law?! For example, it should be written in the law that if you travel without a ticket in the city transport, they keep you until the fine is paid. It's the same thing! Because the same company also controls the regularity of passengers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u128	Any other lines to Mr. Kirilov? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, you must answer Mr. Svilensky. Or can't you? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u129	The right to use is restricted.. I will answer you from the stand, the car for administrative infringement. For another administrative violation there is only in the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. The punishment, I think, is much more serious, it's not proportionate for wrong parking to keep my car.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I've been fined several times abroad for incorrect parking in Italy, in Greece. I've always paid my fines before, even though I've never had a clamp or a repatriated car or anything like that. I don't have any such repression! What's the problem with drawing up an act of the intruder? Why do we really have to force him to pay extra money to some private company that, under some kind of contract, got the right to haul out the cars of citizens who couldn't pay the fine in time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Donchev. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Andon Donchev? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, the property of Bulgarian citizens, private property is inviolable. Certain exceptions shall be allowed if extremely necessary. The person who can reach out to private property in certain cases where the child or the object with which a particular criminal act has been committed is the State through its authorities. The companies that are employed do not represent, they are not state bodies, honourable Members. They do not have this competence under a law that you now want them to touch on private property, especially when it comes to very disproportionateness, because a parking fine can vary to 50, to 100 BGN. The cost of this private property, of the movable property, of the car is many times more, and in practice they deprive you of the opportunity to use this car for the needs for which it is intended, from which you suffer damage and loss. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. [[Heckling]] Mr. Tzipov, would you like to take an attitude? No. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 51 against 34, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u135	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. the introductory phrase is amended as follows: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 2. create b. , (a) in b. In the third sentence, a new comma shall be placed after the words of these costs and added if it is not possible to pay up to the time of service of the ticket or the act establishing the offence. 3. the current text of t. 2 becomes her b. ? The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u136	The abbreviation is meant by the letter "b".
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u137	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 point (b) is amended as follows: (b) which manages a motor vehicle with a concentration of alcohol in the blood of more than 0,5 per thousand, established by a medical and chemical laboratory test, or with a evidence-based test, or with another technical means determining the content of alcohol in the blood by measuring it in the exhaled air, or after use of narcotics or their analogues, established by a medical and chemical-toxic laboratory test or by a test, and which refuses to be tested by technical means or by means of a test tested by a evidence analyst or to give biological samples for chemical and/or chemical-toxic research until the issue of its responsibility is resolved, but for no more than 18 months; in the case of a blood sample or test by a evidence-based analyst pursuant to art. 174, para. 4 the established values are indicative; 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 letter..................................)........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. Point 2a is amended as follows: It's 2a. suspension of the registration of a road vehicle of an owner who drives a motor vehicle without holding the relevant driving licence and/or having a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand and/or has used narcotics or their analogues, as well as refusal to have a technical and/or chemical-toxic laboratory test to establish the concentration of alcohol and/or the use of narcotics or their analogues, or has failed to comply with the prescription for testing with evidence or for medical examination and biological testing for the performance of chemical and/or chemical-toxic laboratory tests to establish the concentration of alcohol in his blood and/or for the use of drugs or their analogues, and of an owner whose motor vehicle is managed by a person not holding the relevant driving licence for a period of 6 months to one year and/or for the use of narcotic substances or their analogues; 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The following point shall be (d) parked and not paid the due price under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 3 and in the cases referred to in art. 167, para. 2, p. 2 after the authorised parking time, indicated on a stationary road sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u138	You have the floor to speak. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, firstly, I will present to you our proposal, which was again not supported by the Commission and then I will make a speech on Mr. Ivanov's proposal. This change concerns almost the same case as the parentheses, only already in the case when the car is repatriated, that is, when you do not need these 39 levs, but you need 60 and more levs. The proposal we are making, again, when your car is repatriated, no matter what reason, whether you have stopped in a forbidden place or hindered the movement, or any other reason when you go to the penalty parking lot, may either be able to pay on the spot if you have the opportunity, or to be drawn up with the relevant act of violation of the ticket, and the car will be released so that it can be used if it is company by the other partners in the company, if it is family owned by the other family members, if there are other co-owners who want to use the car the next day. That's our offer. Once again, it's not a fine, it's a fee, it's a service, it's a service written in Law, we're going to repeat to countless, racketeering functions of these companies and we're putting them in legal provisions for their implementation. On Mr. Ivanov's proposal, since what I've been telling you so far is racketeering and that it's incorrect, perhaps you are saying: "Svilenski there is speaking them, we will not accept them." However, the Supreme Administrative Court has abolished all municipal regulations, where they apply the repatriation of cars after the blue zone expires and for this reason Mr. Ivanov is now trying with this proposal to legitimize the illegal activities of these companies, these companies, lifting the cars by spider after 19:00, when the parking area is free.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u140	Svilenski, it's not just me, there's another group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u141	Well, a group of MPs, excuse me, colleagues, if I'm missing some. Since the amendment represents it with Mr. Ivanov, so I turn to him, but I'm giving him the opportunity to give me a line or a personal explanation. If we are not, perhaps, the best in what the Law should look like, I think that the Supreme Administrative Court employs lawyers who understand both the rights of the people and the laws, and they correctly cancel all the regulations of the municipalities where this thing is assigned. Let us not now sabotage such a decision of the Supreme Court with a quirk of Mr. Ivanov and perhaps his colleagues who want this thing legalized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u142	Please, no quirk qualifications. Each Member of the National Assembly shall have the right to make proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u143	It's not an insulting word.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u144	- What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I put to the vote the proposal made by MP Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 42, against 39, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I propose a procedure for a split vote on this point. 4 out of the whole other text, because by the other text our group has no problem and we want to support it, and so on. There's no way we can back him up. My request is for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u146	I understand, Mr. Svilensky. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a split vote. 4 to be voted separately. Vote 120 MPs: 113 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I'm voting on it. 4 of Paragraph 10 of the Commission report. They voted 127 MPs: 84, against 36, abstention 7. Point 4 has been accepted. I shall put to the vote the entire text on the Commission's report, together with the item adopted. 4. Vote 131 MPs: for 123, against 7, abstention 1. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u147	There is a proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 172a: Art. 172a. (1) The costs of carrying out a medical examination, biological sampling and chemical testing to establish blood alcohol concentrations and/or a chemo-toxic study to determine the use of drugs or their analogues shall be borne by the person for whom a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand and/or by test has been established or who has refused a technical or test examination. (2) The costs under para. 1 shall be at the expense of the office whose authority has appointed the study where the sample carried out with a technical means or test is poor or invalid or the physical condition of the person does not allow a technical or test inspection and no concentration of alcohol in the blood exceeds 0,5 per thousand and/or the use of drugs or their analogues has been established during the chemical or chemo-toxic examination. (3) Until the payment of the costs under para. 1 driving licence of a motor vehicle withdrawn on the basis of art. 171, p. 1 point (b) shall not be returned to the owner.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u148	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 11 with its respective content, in accordance with its report. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u149	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 11: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 172a: Art. 172a. (1) The costs of carrying out a medical examination, biological sampling and chemical testing to establish blood alcohol concentrations and/or a chemo-toxic study to determine the use of drugs or their analogues shall be borne by the person for whom a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand and/or by test has been established or who has refused a technical or test examination. (2) The costs under para. 1 shall be at the expense of the office whose authority has appointed the study where the sample carried out with a technical means or test is poor or invalid or the physical condition of the person does not allow a technical or test inspection and no concentration of alcohol in the blood exceeds 0,5 per thousand and/or the use of drugs or their analogues has been established during the chemical or chemo-toxic examination. (3) Until the payment of the costs under para. 1 driving licence of a motor vehicle withdrawn on the basis of art. 171, p. 1 point (b) shall not be returned to the owner.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u150	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 11 with its respective content, in accordance with its report. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u151	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 174 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 in the text before t. 1 after the word "Medician" the word "Medical" is added and the word "Content" is replaced by "Medical" is replaced by "Medical." 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: A driver of a motor vehicle, tram or self-propelled machine who refuses to be tested with a technical means for establishing the use of alcohol in the blood and/or with a test for the detection of the use of narcotics or their analogues, or fails to comply with the prescription for testing with a evidence analyst or for medical examination and sampling of biological samples for chemical laboratory testing for the determination of the concentration of alcohol in his blood and/or chemo-toxic laboratory test for the detection of the use of narcotics or their analogues, shall be punished by deprivation of the right to drive a vehicle, tram or a self-propelled machine for a period of two years and a fine 2000 BGN. 3. In para. 4 after the word "analogues" shall be added by the drivers of the motor vehicle, tram or self-propelled machinery, as well as by the participants in the "reporters."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u152	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 12 with its content on the report on the same. Please vote on § 12 on the Commission report. Vote 127 MPs: 119, against 7, abstention 1. Paragraph 12 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u153	Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Toma Bikov and Petya Avramova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 177 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 3 the words "used alcohol' shall be replaced by "or found to drive a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand', and after the words "s'/or "after use' shall be added. 2. The creation of para. 5. A person who fails to fulfil an obligation under art. 144, para. 3 or under art. 145, para. 2, is imposed with a fine or a penalty of 200 BGN
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u154	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 13 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u155	Proposal by Georgi Svilenski and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 14. ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced 1 after the word "Reverse" shall be added to the lane for forced stopping on the motorway, without the exceptions under art. 58, t. 3 or............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u156	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u157	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! About an hour ago, I said from the stands that I would thank you for a correction. Now I come out to thank the MPs, all of you, for joining together and supporting an extremely important amendment to the Law, which I am sure many people will be satisfied with. It's about limiting, or rather banning, all those punks who use their cars and drive when there's traffic jams in the emergency lane. Just about a month ago, a child almost died in the ambulance, because it was the same geeks driving in the emergency lane that prevented him from reaching Sofia. About two months ago, there was even a death of a man who was run over around his car, changing his tire. We really need to tell these thugs once, and that's why this measure is extremely important, because this summer, traveling to the sea, it's normal, there are traffic jams, repairs are being done, these thugs are using this tape to save time. I was extremely angry, so here, with colleagues from the parliamentary group on the left, we have proposed this amendment. I am glad that you supported her, and that is why it is good to show that when we are united, when we really think about people, good things happen. Because of these people, and I hope that the media will spread what I say in order to understand it, I will now take the license directly and the fine will be 1000 BGN. This emergency tape is not an emergency, it's not meant for driving a car, but when there is an accident, or when ambulances and fire trucks have to move, they have to go to a road accident to save lives, but because of some insolence, I'd say insolences, they really can't do their job. That's why I'm glad we really joined together behind this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 14 with its respective content on its report. Please vote on § 14 on the Commission report. They voted 134 MPs: 133 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 14 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u159	Under Paragraph 6, the Commission shall support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the importer's proposals and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 189 b. 1 is amended as "1." driving a road vehicle with a blood alcohol concentration of more than 0,5 per thousand and/or following the use of narcotics or their analogues;
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u160	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 15 on the Commission report. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u161	Proposal by Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Rosen Ivanov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name of "Transitional and Final Provisions' with § 16 and § 17: "Transitional and final provisions' § 16. The persons who have completed primary education or graduated from X class under the repealed Law on Education until the entry into force of this Law receive a driving licence in the current order. § 17. The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 and § 13, p. 2 which enter into force three months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal. 2. paragraph 11, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u162	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish a division called the "Transitional and Final Provisions', as well as the establishment of § 16 and § 17 with their content in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 127 MPs: for 127, there is no abstention. The term "Transitional and Final Provisions" and paragraphs 16 and 17 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted and the Second Voting Bill has also been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u163	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u164	And thank you, Mr. Letifov. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODECTION CODEX, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. The President of the Commission Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce you to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u165	Thank you. Madam President, I ask that we vote on a procedure in this Chamber to be admitted to Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Elka Shongova, State Expert at the Department of Finance and Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, and Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u166	Please vote for admission. They voted 115 MPs: 109, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u167	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017. At a meeting held on 7 September 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The Commission's supervisory practice for financial supervision identified a number of problems and legislative gaps regarding pension funds. They relate to a lack of adequate requirements for corporate management of pension insurance companies. Also, due to the reviews of pension fund assets conducted in 2016 and the beginning of 2017, discrepancies with international and European practices and recommendations have been identified. The resolution of these discrepancies is also a commitment made by Bulgaria in the National Reform Programme to respond to the recommendations of the Council of the EU from 2015 and 2016. The amendments proposed by the Project aim to protect the interests and increase the trust of insured persons and pensioners in the Pension Funds for supplementary pension insurance. The legislative proposals include higher requirements for the corporate management of pension insurance companies, the qualification and subsequent training of insurance intermediaries, the regulation of pension-related insurance companies with a view to preventing conflicts of interest and limiting their ability to deal with such persons, detailing the functions of pension-supporting banks and defining their liability, introducing reliefs when changing participation and transferring funds from one pension fund to another, extending investment restrictions on the types of instruments in which pension funds can invest, in order to enable them to achieve higher profitability and fine-tuning and supplementing the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission as a collective body, as well as the Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission. Other important changes provided for in the Bill are raising the requirements for insurance intermediaries, easing the regime for changing the participation and transferring the funds of the insured persons from one fund to another respectively for supplementary pension insurance, increasing the transparency of supplementary pension insurance and awareness of insured persons, clarifying the requirements for financial statements, changes in the rules of administrative-criminal liability and forced administrative measures, regulating the storage of supplementary pension insurance documents. The discussion was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the CNSB, pension insurance companies and MPs from the parliamentary groups represented. The opinions united around the fact that the Bill provides for protection of the interests of insured persons and pensioners. According to the latest data from the C.F.R. as of 31 December 2016, 4 472 676 accounts were provided in the four types of pension funds. The proposed changes strengthen confidence in the activities of supplementary pension insurance. The Bulgarian Industrial Association and the CST supported the submitted bill as a whole, but shared specific concerns. The representatives of the Pod expressed their concerns that even now in the proposed bill there was no place regulation for the payout phase. They asked for the revision and adoption of the Bill to be postponed until the drafting and coordination of this phase. People's representative Menda Stoyanova stressed that it is not wise to postpone once again within the last three years solving the security issue of the reported persons, as well as the one related to the accumulation and investment of a large cash resource. The proposed legislative solutions are widely discussed in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, employers' organisations, trade unions. The decisions made are rational and working. The Committee on Budget and Finance expressed its readiness between first and second readings, within a working group of representatives of stakeholders, to adopt constructive proposals. In conclusion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for such a proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: The Committee on Budgets and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support a bill of amendment and supplement to the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. For the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, please come in, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 13 September 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Ms. Sultanka Petrova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ms. Karina Karaivanova, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, experts from ministries and institutions, representatives of the Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies, representatives of trade union and employers' organizations, representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators, etc. The bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy supports the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code and its motives. According to the reasons of the Bill, the proposed changes are related to changes in the regulation of supplementary pension insurance by further developing and improving it in several basic guidelines: The first group of changes are related to improving the requirements for members of the management and control bodies. The most important are the changes that will require appropriate professional qualifications, experience and good reputation, thus, according to the importers of the Bill, ensuring the availability of the necessary knowledge and skills in the members of the management and control bodies of the companies. The aim of this is to prevent maladministration of companies and funds, and hence the mismanagement of the funds of insured persons and pensioners. With regard to executive directors and prosecutors, a ban shall be introduced on taking up another position under a contract of employment, except as professors in higher schools or assistants in scientific institutes. Another measure provided for in the Bill in order to improve corporate governance is the development of the regime for granting prior authorisation to acquire shareholder participation, which will be 10 and more than 10 per cent of the capital of the pension insurance company. Changes to the framework shall be based on the uniform rules introduced by European Union legislation for the ex ante assessment of acquisitions and the increase of participations in the financial sector. The requirements of Directive 2007/44/EC and Directive 2009/138/EU are used as the basis for the proposed changes. The second group of changes concern improving requirements for pension management systems. As part of the measures to strengthen supervision and legislation in the field of the non-banking financial sector, it is necessary for the pension insurance company to have an effective management system to ensure reliable and prudent management of the supplementary pension activities. The management body's obligations in relation to its establishment and operation are detailed. The Bill develops and details the existing liabilities of the trustee bank to verify the orders of the pension insurance company to dispose of the pension funds. It shall also be arranged for its obligation to alert the supervisory authority in the event of irregularities. Another new moment is the improvement of the arrangements for investing the funds of the supplementary pension funds. A number of problems have been identified in the practice of direct investment of pension funds in investment property. Real estate markets differ substantially from capital markets both in terms of their regulation and in terms of transparency and liquidity. This circumstance reflects the fair valuation of investment property and consequently the value of the accounts of pension fund entities. For this reason, the Bill provides for them to be dropped as an opportunity to invest the funds of the insured persons. At the same time, the limit for indirect investment in property by acquiring shares of special investment purpose companies is increased. Special texts introduce requirements for the use of an identification code of the legal entity which is an international 20-digit alphanumeric code that allows unique identification of the legal entities involved in the global financial markets. The use of such a code will significantly improve the automation of data processing for financial institutions and will facilitate supervisory activities and coordination between national supervisory authorities and the competent authorities of the European Union. The Bill introduces a requirement that funds for additional voluntary pension insurance under occupational schemes and pension insurance companies that manage them obtain the new code. The bill provides for changes which will introduce requirements of European Union legislation. A norm is proposed to prohibit gender use as an actuarial factor in determining the amount of lifelong retirement pension granted by universal pension funds. This change will meet the requirements of Council Directive 79/EEC on the gradual introduction of the principle of equal treatment between men and women in social security. New in the Draft Law are the changed definitions for the management position........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ A partial preliminary impact assessment form prepared by the Ministry of Finance has been attached to the Bill. A reference shall also be attached which reflects the views received in accordance with Article 15 of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 and Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova informed the MPs that the Ministry formed a working group involving experts from the Financial Supervision Commission, the National Insurance Institute, employers' and trade unions, pension insurance companies and representatives of the scientific community. The main task of the working group is to prepare proposals for amendments to the Social Security Code to address the payment phase of pensions from additional compulsory pension insurance. In this connection, issues related to the types of pension payments that will provide universal and professional pension funds, the conditions for access to them, the choice of individual products, etc. will be discussed. The Commission received the opinions of the Bulgarian Chamber of Owners, the Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies, the Economic Initiative Union, the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators, the National Insurance Institute and Protocol No 12 of the meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, held on 6 July 2017. The extended opinions of the social partners were added to the Protocol. All partner organisations support the Bill in principle and disagree on: the lack of regulation of the rights of insured persons in the pay-out phase; the lack of the possibility of pension insurance companies to develop different pension products in competitive conditions, in the interests of their customers. There is no regulation on the existence of the multifunds (s) as part of the free choice of insured persons. The administrative burden has been increased and there are no objective criteria for this. The amount of fines and penalties is significantly higher than the amount of similar insurance, credit and other financial institutions. Extremely high and unclear are the criteria for members of the management and control bodies of pension insurance companies, such as the requirements do not exist for the management bodies of other financial institutions. Some of the opinions have made concrete proposals for amendments to texts in the proposed Draft. The participants in the discussion took part the MPs Irena Dimova, Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov, as well as representatives of the pension companies, the trade union organizations of KT "Supporta" and the CST, and the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators. It became clear from the comments made that the changes made will strengthen the supervision and regulations of pension insurance companies. New requirements for management of companies will be introduced, requirements for insurance intermediaries will be increased and investment policies carried out by insurance companies and funds will be improved, the functions of custody banks will be developed. These changes, as well as the provisions implementing the requirements of European legislation, namely Council Directive 79/7/EEC on the gradual application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in the field of social security, could be supported. According to some Members of the National Assembly, it is inexplicable and completely unargued to introduce successive amendments which cause certain instability in insurance relations and the insurance system, as well as in terms of the way of retirement and the amount of pensions, as well as in the financial sector. Moreover, the submitted bill does not address the most important moment, namely the method of payment of pensions. It was also noted in the opinions made by the Members of the National Assembly that the draft Law did not find any place for the changes relating to fundamental rights of the insured persons. There are more sanctioning elements in the Bill than control mechanisms; provisions that do not benefit companies' property investments and change their portfolios. There are many delegations to the Financial Supervision Commission, which is a weakness of the Bill. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 12 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Asks the National Assembly to support the bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u171	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! All who work in the field of social security are of the opinion that Title 2 of the Social Security Code, which regulates supplementary and compulsory pension insurance, needs to be improved and refined the standards that it contains or generally needs serious improvement. There are problems and legislative gaps regarding pension funds, there are also discrepancies with international European practices and recommendations. I will not dwell in detail on the problems, but it is a fact that these exist and it is necessary to remove them. The Council of Ministers, with the proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code on Social Security, is trying to make this work and fix the problems......................................................................... I say this because as early as the forty-first National Assembly has been prepared and tabled for such a bill, but for one reason or another it has not been adopted. Then, in the time of the Forty- Third National Assembly, a similar bill was drawn up again. It was even posted on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy website for public discussion, but for one reason or another it was not accepted. And we come to the current Draft Law, which has already been submitted to the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Whether the current Draft Law of the Council of Ministers differs from that introduced at the Forty-first National Assembly, I do not know because I am slightly familiar with that project, but I can argue that there are few differences and differences from the previous Law. All this has been done by the same government in the face of GERB. In practice, this bill proposes important changes relating to the management of pension insurance companies and the investments of pension funds, as well as to the elimination of existing contradictions in the legal framework of additional compulsory pension insurance, while amendments and additions do not affect provisions of Part One This bill should be useful for the insured persons when implementing its provisions in the insurance system, but the question is whether it is so and whether it has happened. Before I start criticising the Bill, I would like to highlight its positive aspects. At the first reading I decided that the bill was very good and should be supported. I was under the impression that the Bill was making, above all, changes aimed at protecting the interests of insured persons and pensioners in private pension funds, arguing that the requirements for improving the activities of supplementary pension insurance are being improved. I decided that it should be supported because there are serious intentions for control and transparency in management, such as the main part of the proposed changes, such as: higher requirements for the management of pension insurance companies, by introducing requirements for persons holding qualified participation in the company's capital and members of the management and control bodies. There is also the introduction of higher requirements for qualification and subsequent training of insurance intermediaries. There is a regulation of pension-related insurance companies in order to prevent conflicts of interest and limit trade opportunities with such persons. There is a definition of the liability of banks trustees of pension insurance companies. Reliefs are introduced when changing participation and transferring funds from each other to a pension fund. There is also a fine-tuning and supplementing of the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission as a collective body, as well as of the Vice-President of this Commission, all good and necessary things that will more effectively regulate and supervise the activities of supplementary pension insurance, more regulation and supervision by the state, which I welcome. Regardless of my first impression of the Bill, a more careful reading shows that importers have not once again exceeded themselves. The good words I said about the Bill remain, and I do not deny them, but they are for solving some of the problems. With the introduction of this Bill, the Council of Ministers continues its traditional practice to propose important and serious changes in terms of content and volume, without binding them with any overall vision or concept of another reform of the entire insurance system, which is imperative to be carried out in order to address existing problems and future ones. They existed before, but mainly appeared after legislative adoption of the so-called'selectability' of persons in universal and occupational pension funds and financing of the additional costs of state social security by the realization of that right. The right to an informed choice is very good, but whether such an informed choice is in practice possible in the current state of the regulatory framework is a question. There is undoubtedly an attempt to remedy problems and to a large extent positive amendments and additions to the current Code of Social Security, but if specialists, social security experts make a comprehensive analysis, review, evaluation and evaluation of the bill, they will present to those who are users of the social security system a not-so-satisfactory picture. In short: the ambitions of importers to deal with the problems of additional compulsory pension insurance are great, but the submitted bill does not solve these problems in full. In light of the circumstances, I attended the discussion of this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and despite the serious pressure of the President of the Council, Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov, to reach unanimity, the parties to the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation did not reach consensus on the proposal. There were no happy countries after the debate was over. Rather, the opinion of trade unions and employers' organizations was that what was offered is good, but does not solve the problems in general and there is a working group that is still working. It is therefore necessary to wait for the end of the work and to remove the gaps, to complete the bill and then to submit it to the National Assembly. As I see it, the Council of Ministers has not complied with these recommendations, which is a pity, because it is likely that we will have to make changes to the Social Security Code for a hundred and twenty times in the text that has just been adopted. [[Reply.]] Yes, so far are one hundred and eighteen, one hundred and nineteen and the next one hundred and twenty changes in the Code. It wouldn't be the first time, so there are no surprises here. It is inexplicable to me that this haste and as if the Bill were stubborn to enter the Chamber, almost even being seen in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. I believe, and so my fellow Members think, that the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee should be the leading Commission in examining this bill, because it can concern finance and management of companies, but it is all the more relevant and must decide important for the protection of the rights and interests of the insured persons. And it is here that the weakest place of the project is: the lack of a clear, detailed regulation for the protection of the rights of the people, of the insured, of the outcome of the supplementary pension insurance and is the so-called phase of payment of the pension. You are aware that although pensions are still being paid from additional compulsory pension insurance from professional funds, the boom will come when the first pensions of universal pension funds are being paid, which are created and managed by private pension companies. Here, the link between the organisation and the management of the activity and the actions of the companies in the payment of additional pensions is part of the amendments and additions contained in this Bill, which may be unsuccessful. I'm sure for myself that they'll end up unlucky. What do I report as serious omissions? My findings do not differ much from those mentioned in the opinions of trade unions, employers' organisations and other stakeholders. First of all, I will mention again the most serious omission: there is no clear, detailed regulation on the protection of people's rights at the outcome of supplementary pension insurance, the pension payment phase. Secondly, I would point out as a weakness the lack of regulation to develop and offer a variety of pension products. Some of the changes violate established principles and rules in the implementation of pension insurance rights and create problems in the functioning of the solidarity first pillar and its relationship with the second pillar. Thirdly, or already in fourth place, some of the provisions do not benefit the insured persons or the activities of the funds. The opportunities for multi-funds and a number of other gaps and shortcomings, which I will not dwell on, are also not settled. The proposed bill is large-scale and covers a serious part of the functioning of the pension insurance system. You shouldn't rush it in any way. I think the Council of Ministers hastened to submit this Bill to the National Assembly, at least because the work on the development of the pension payment phase is not ready. A working group has been formed and after completion of the work it is necessary to include this part in the Bill. I would ask the importers to withdraw the bill in its current form, supplement it and enrich it, taking into account the views of all interested parties and then bring it back. It would be better so that a full consensus can be obtained in adopting such important amendments to the Social Security Code. Since I have experience in such calls for the withdrawal of various bills, I'm sure you won't. I will therefore vote abstention and campaign my parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to do the same. We will not support the bill in this form. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u172	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you go, Mrs. Yordanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote a procedure to extend the time to vote on this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Yordanova. Please, a voting regime to extend the time until the vote on this item on the agenda. Vote 98 MPs: 81 against 8, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u175	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Colleagues, our attention has been put to the discussion and voting bill of the Council of Ministers, which is related to Title II of the Social Security Code. This is a huge share that concerns, just now Mrs. Menda Stoyanova mentioned 4 million. 472,000. 676 individual accounts concern practically all Bulgarian citizens because the additional pension insurance share II is practically related to the state social security, which means that it concerns all Bulgarian citizens on the one hand. On the other hand, nearly 12 billion were accumulated in private pension companies. BGN, which means that the changes that are being proposed now are extremely important and deserve the attention of the National Assembly. I want to tell you a few words on the history of this Project because it has a history, it has its own track. Five years ago, the National Assembly was introduced and reviewed at first reading a draft for amendments to the Social Security Code, prepared by the Financial Supervision Commission and by the Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies. This Project, unfortunately, at the end of the Forty-first National Assembly, was adopted only at first reading and could not get into action anyway. My personal opinion is that this Project was much better than the current Project. I can argue if I have enough time. Next, in April 2016, a project appeared on the website of the Ministry of Finance, which caused a very strong public reaction and the Minister of Finance was forced and wished to withdraw the project from the public consultation phase. Its next action was to divide this project into two parts, a part which concerns the financial parameters or those parameters to which the Ministry of Finance is committed, and another part which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy had to draw up. This part isn't ready yet. This project went only at first reading in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Now comes a further attempt to finally adopt this project to the National Assembly. Why am I saying all these things? " Because at this stage, a complete solution to the problems related to supplementary pension provision is not available. Only a change of piece is proposed and it was not a coincidence before Mr. Gokov tried to argue why he would refrain from it because there is an undisputed part. This is the part of this project that relates to higher, higher requirements for education, qualification, if you will to the professional experience of members of the management and supervisory bodies of pension companies. But there's another part that I'm going to talk about a little bit further. At the time, there was such a discussion in the Committees. There was a constitutional case No 9/2016 related to this problem. There was another question.... then, at the end of last year and the beginning of this year, to complete the so-called stress tests............................. I would also like to mention another fact: a temporary committee of inquiry was created for a reason, on which Mrs Cornelia Ninova was chairman, which a temporary committee of inquiry had to decide on the problems of supplementary pension insurance. This committee has spoken and, thank God, the proposals have found a place under other procedural rules in the Social Security Code. And now that all these things are over, there are no objective reasons not to offer the government an overall vision for the development of this sector, and not to offer what I now call only one part of the Social Security Code, and in particular Title II, and only one part of Title II. I want to start with the things that deserve support. First of all, the participation of independent members in the Board of Directors and the Supervisory Board of Pension Insurance Companies. This has already been done with the insurance companies and there should be a side view, if you would call it, to the supervisory board. There is an approval regime for members of the management bodies. There is a prior authorisation to acquire shareholder participation and so on. So far, I'm done, I don't want to list all the good things in the Project, and I say there are some good things, because there isn't enough time, but I want to focus on some things that I personally don't like and that might have another solution in the Project at second reading. Dear colleagues, in this project there are definitions and requirements for supervised sites which are defined as follows: good reputation; be honest; present other documents. If anyone can give me a definition of these things, because the Law does not define this, let them come and say. My proposal is that the type of definitions that allow for subjective assessment, of which penalties are followed, including withdrawal of a licence, be sufficiently clearly formulated to allow clarity when sanctions are imposed. My word is on sanctions, because now they are intended to be significantly, in times elevated. It is true that in the current Law they start from sufficiently low levels, but, honourable Members, when we talk about professional qualifications, we all agree that in terms of professional qualifications, professional experience, experience in the system of the non-banking financial sector, it is mandatory to have it. In other words, we have extremely increased requirements for the management and supervisory bodies of pension insurance companies. However, those who will draw up regulations that people with higher qualifications by law may not, in fact, have to comply with, to them, with the Commission's management bodies for financial supervision does not have the same requirements. This is a problem and it is not a problem perhaps only of this Law. I would also like to say a few more things to finish the discussion, why we are not accepting the proposed project. In the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, there is currently a working group that deals with the development of all the other things that colleagues have just spoken about, and so on, which are not settled, because this year women born in 1960 are entitled five years earlier to receive a universal pension, an additional life pension, but when the payout phase is not settled, then under current legislation can they receive? Yeah, they can get it, but they don't have a choice. Another law will tell you, which goes along with this discussion, with this project. This project is going on a fast track, and those two somewhere in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the Ministry of Finance still haven't found their place in this joint project that we think should have. What do I mean? I am referring to the Financial Instruments Markets Act. This Law provides for the same things that exist or similar to them. High sanctions are envisaged for pension insurance companies that violate European directives. My opinion is that all these things could, if the government had a comprehensive, long-term vision for the development of this sector, find a place in this project. Why am I saying all these things? Because in 2015, we adopted changes to the Social Security Code and there the main leitmotive was the insured person to have a choice. Yes, he has a choice, but where is the choice? The choice is between state social security in the face of the National Insurance Institute and private pension funds. On the other hand, you have the right to choose such a choice, but you have no right to choose a risk profile, that is, we are going back to the discussion about the so-called "multifunds." And this discussion has not yet been finalized. It started five years ago or more. Next, you have the right to choose the input of the system, but you do not have the right to choose the output of the system when the time for payment comes. Because private pension companies are currently offering what? What is written in the Law is no different pension products, that is, once at the entrance of the system you have a choice, at the exit of your system offer only one product. Thanks for such a bill! Therefore, our parliamentary group will abstain because we support the first part and all the other things that I have said cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u176	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov! - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova, maybe longer, no problem. [[Reply from a place by the National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u177	No, Mr. Ademov. I have a very short line to support what you said. I absolutely agree with you, but I would like to complete two things. First, let the MPs hear that every year by law, every Bulgarian citizen born after 1960 makes a contribution to a voluntary pension fund he has chosen, or someone has chosen him [[Replication by National Representative Hasan Ademov]] I'm sorry, it's a mandatory pension fund. This contribution shall be administered and collected by the NRA and then made available to the management funds in question. Since this concerns about a billion a year, not accidentally twelve billion, you said, and so have gathered in these funds, exclusive responsibility of both the national representation and the government, and the Financial Supervision Commission, which is BNB for these funds, to control this money how it is invested, are they profitable, are they there or are they not there when the time comes to pay? In this respect, I agree that this Law should have been more comprehensive, including both the payment phase and the multifunds, and so on. Unfortunately, there have been working groups on this for a long time and they do not reach consensus. Yeah, you said five years. Does this mean that we have to wait for someone to work to consensus to bring in these rules, which will guarantee both the work of the Commission and people's money in one way or another. I mean, you mentioned the temporary fund committee Mrs. Ninova was in charge of. At the time, there were hearings of the C.F.R.S. and the Committee on Budget and Finance, and I must tell you that the main recommendations were that there were risk investments in related persons and there had to be a very wide and precise definition of what a person is and of the Commission's instruments in order to reach them. That is what we will postpone if we wait for the task force to reach consensus. And that shouldn't be delayed. Moreover, I would even say that too soft and too general is the definition of..................... and I think that between first and second readings we can work in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. [[Applause from GERB.]] Second line? I don't see a second line. Dr. Ademov for the doppelganger. The line was short.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u179	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, what you have said gives me absolutely no argument to accept that there is no coordination between the various institutions in the country. If you could give me an argument to disprove me, I would agree with you. Because everything you said wasn't entirely true. Why? I'll tell you why. Because your assessment of the fact that control of private pension companies is not sufficient is excluded from the independent assessment of the assets of the stress tests. How is that not true? How is that not true? I've read that grade myself. You're not the only one who's read it, and I've read it. I know what this is about, and you know I do. Next, it is very important to understand that it is leading not to give the Commission the superpowers for financial supervision. The important thing is to protect the interests of the insured persons. If we focus only on the sanctioning mechanisms that are being proposed at the moment and not on the control mechanisms, then we will get to the situation of making temporary committees of inquiry. Because the most important thing is control before it comes to sanctions. Control must be preventive in order not to bring about those sanctions that we are talking about. And here you're giving me an opportunity to open another topic, because within the time I had, there's no way I can say all these things. Honourable Members, the National Assembly, the government must decide once and for all a cardinal question whether the controlling, supervisory authorities in Bulgaria should be financed by the state, whether they should be financed by the state and by their own revenues or should be financed by their own revenues only. Then things will be completely different and will be clear. In this case, there is the impression that, on the basis of vague wordings, vague concepts which are not sufficiently well justified impose undeserved penalties. That's the big question. No one's against following rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u180	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Any other speeches? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u181	It's a strong statement, but I want to answer you, Mr. Ademov, that you're absolutely right. You're right about everything you said.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u182	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u183	But I would like to say that what you have quoted in the independent valuers' report, which says they have not found any violation of current legislation, which is too liberal. And their recommendations say that legislation should be deepened in the direction of related persons and other control mechanisms.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u184	Can I respond to a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u185	No, we'll have him between first and second, it'll be a good conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u186	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova, for the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u187	How can the Commission rule on next legislation? How's this gonna work?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u188	Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u189	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Bulgarian Socialist Party disagrees with the proposals made in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. It's just another change in our retirement insurance system. We do not share what was expressed by the importer, namely that these changes that are present in this Project are so urgent that we cannot wait a few months to make clear the most urgent, the most necessary things that are missing in Title 2 of the Social Security Code, namely: the method of payment of pensions. In their current form, proposals for changes in the pension insurance system are erosion of the pension model as a whole. The declared right of choice of insured persons shall also be questioned by the proposed changes. There is concern in people about the fate of the funds accumulated in their accounts. It is known that in principle the Bulgarian society is very reserved and the possible adoption of changes in this kind will certainly push a large number of insured on higher incomes towards the grey economy and will become a psychological motive for concealing and saving insurance contributions. We believe that no one in the Chamber and in the country supports such a motive, nor does it have such a desire. In the Bulgarian Socialist Party, we firmly believe that the proposed changes affect state social security, especially after the so-called "choice of individuals" has been introduced to prefer a lifelong pension from additional social security. Any problems in additional compulsory pension insurance that we support from the point of view of improving management, requirements for persons managing companies, transactions and risk managements in investment and so on ultimately results and on this right of individuals to prefer either the first or the second pillar or vice versa. We, as representatives of a particular group of society, would really like to do everything possible on the part of the people's representation to keep this project, so that it can be included in it and the important phase of payment, because the excessive references to regulations of essential material norms which should be in this Bill, but are still missing for some reason and if this philosophy of the Bill is adopted, companies will be forced to make a series of changes to their own rules. Once it is ready and the other part of the Bill, it is not clear whether these regulations and these changes will have to be reviewed again. So I would like to draw attention to whether these changes should not be delayed until the changes in the payment phase are ready. They will cause changes, including those texts that we are currently adopting. In this regard, I would like to point out that the more difficult task than this defect of the insurance legislation, namely the payout phase, is this contradiction that exists only with us, that the pension is both life-saving and inherited. In addition to the above-mentioned general considerations, we have other issues that may be addressed, namely those are criticisms related to excessive administrative interference in the business processes of economic entities, as well as the controversial intertwining of insurance and insurance principles. At this point, I think it would be best for this Bill to be withdrawn and further worked, and only then to be proposed again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-14.u190	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Please, colleagues, take your seats. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 702-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2017. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 100, against 10, abstention 34. The motion is accepted. Communications of parliamentary control on 19 September 2017, Tuesday: I. Debates on asking: Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in the land relations. II. Questions and Questions Answered: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer one question from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Elena Yoncheva. 2. The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer eight questions from the MPs: Violeta Zhelev; Hristo Grudev; Miglena Alexandrova; Stanislav Vladimirov and Lubomir Bonev; Jaihan Ibryamov; Slavcho Velkov, Kolyo Milev, Elena Yoncheva and Spas Panchev; and Teodora Halacheva. 3. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer ten questions from the MPs Dora Yankova; Georgi Gokov "three questions; Krasimir Yankov; Elhan Kulkov; Petar Kanev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Kristina Sidorova; and Stefan Burgev, and one question from the MPs Filip Popov, Tsvetan Topchiev, Ivan Genov and Nikolay Ivanov. 4. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer three questions from the MPs Valentina Naydenova; Kristina Sidorova; and Elena Yoncheva. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov. 6. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski. 7. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Adlen Shevked. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Mihail Hristov and two questions with written answer from the MPs Irena Anastasova; and Stoyan Mirchev and Irena Anastasova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov of a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Anton Kutev. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov are postponed. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. The next plenary session shall be on 19 September 2017 at 1300. I'm adjourning today's parliamentary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
