ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! We have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 11 to 13 October 2017 including. He's under review at the Chairman's Council. 1. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Resigned by MP Anton Todorov on 9 October This Decision shall 2. Election of a Vice-President in charge of the management of the investment activity and Vice-President in charge of the management of the Financial Supervision Commission. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 20 September 2017. 3. Draft decision to complete the composition of a permanent delegation. Importer is the national representative Gergana Stefanova on 5 October 2017. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. The people's representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 28 June 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 20 July 2017. 5. First vote on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. Importer is the national representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 21 September 2017. 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 28 September 2017. 8. Second vote on the State Aid Bill. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. Adopted at first vote on 26 July 2017. 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. 10. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. People's representatives Ivelina Vassileva, Menda Stoyanova and Diana Yordanova were introduced on 8 September 2017. He was adopted on the first vote on 21 September 2017. 11. First voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation (EC) No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 September 2017. 12. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary. People's representatives Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Simeon Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Anna Alexandrova are importing on 5 October 2017. We propose this to be a first point for Friday, 13 October 2017. 13. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 September 2017. We propose this to be point two for Friday, 13 October 2017. The Conference of Presidents shall propose: 14. Parliamentary control. Please vote. They voted 194 MPs: 167, against 2, abstention 25. Our work program has been accepted. We have a proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly by the National Representative Vesela Lecheva: I propose as a item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 11 You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u2	Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman! When the resignations came down, it was like a whole session! And last week the Youth Act remained the last point and there was no time. There is no time left for the young people of Bulgaria and therefore, Mr. President, we ask you, on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria, to include as a item on the agenda the bill for amendment and supplement to the Youth Act. In this Bill, we can generally say that we allow dozens of young people and youth organizations to participate when they are discussed when policies and programmes related to the development of young people in Bulgaria are adopted. We give them the opportunity to have a voice at regional, regional and municipal level. Moreover, just a few months ago in the city of Varna was held the Eighth National Youth Meeting, together with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, together with the Minister of Youth and Sports of the Republic of Bulgaria, together with the EU Commissioner for Education, where dozens of young people and close representatives of 100 youth organizations came out with a joint declaration on what the Youth Act should include. In this Bill we have reflected precisely the desire of young people, their wishes to participate in politics, in the formation of the policy for their successful realization and development in the territory of Bulgaria. That is why we ask you to set aside some plenary time in this week and for the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. We vote on the proposal. They voted 196 MPs: 102, against 18, abstention 76. The motion is accepted. Messages of bills and draft decisions received for the period from 4 October to 10 October 2017: On 4 October 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act was adopted. Importer is the national representative Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 4 October 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Construction and Construction of Sofia Municipality was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. On 4 October 2017 a draft decision on the report of the Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria was received........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The representatives of the National Assembly are Georgi Kolev, Yordan Apostolov, Manol Genov, Polina Tsankova-Hristova, Andon Donchev and Georgi Stankov. On 4 October 2017, a draft decision was received to complete the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe with an importer the national representative Gergana Stefanova. On 5 October 2017, a Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on the Judicial Authority with importers Hamid Hamid, Danail Kirilov, Simeon Naydenov, Emil Dimitrov, Christian Mitev, Dimitar Lazarov and Anna Alexandrova was adopted. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 5 October 2017, a Law on Physical Education and Sports was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, as well as to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health. A Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process was received on 5 October 2017. The Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control was the importer in the period 1 January 2017. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 6 October, a Law on Countering Corruption and the Detainment of Illegally Acquired Property was adopted. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as to the Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 6 October, a Law on the Code of Social Security was introduced. An importer is the national representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 6 October, a Anti-Corruption Law was adopted with the importing national representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as to the Committee on the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 9 October 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Public Libraries Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Culture and Media. On 10 October 2017, the Additional Act for the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business was adopted. Importer of the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I inform the Members of the National Assembly that on 9 October 2017 a Decree No 198 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria was received under art. 101 of the Constitution, by which the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted by the National Assembly on 27 September 2017. It is entrusted to the leading Defence Commission to report to the MPs the President's statement and the reasons for it. The National Statistical Institute received information about: key indicators for the development of the economy in the Republic of Bulgaria as of 6 October 2017; indexes of turnover in the section.. Retail trade without the trade in cars and motorbikes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, we suggest that you call the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to inform the parliament on an extremely important topic about the national security and foreign policy of Bulgaria. Yesterday, international authority agencies quoted by Bulgarian media announced that NATO is creating new multinational forces in the Black Sea, that these Black Sea forces of the Alliance will initially be built by 4,000 Romanian soldiers supported by forces of nine other countries. Additional ships and aircraft will be deployed in the region. More war vessels will be sent to the Bulgarian ports. A year and a half ago, Prime Minister Borisov categorically rejected the idea of forming a Black Sea fleet of NATO. I remind you of the position of the Bulgarian government then, rather his. Quote: I want to see sailboats, yachts, tourists, peace and love in the Black Sea. I do not want military frigates to walk in my resorts back and forth. " - What forced the change in the position of the Bulgarian government if it was in any way involved in this decision? What will be the consequences for Bulgaria? I think it is most appropriate for the Bulgarian government to officially inform the Bulgarian Parliament on this topic, which is extremely important for Bulgaria and its national security, not to learn it from international media. I propose that the Prime Minister be called by the Rules of Procedure to inform us what is happening in the Black Sea. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u5	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. I'll be in touch with the Prime Minister. They have a meeting of the Council of Ministers at the moment, so I will inform you of the possibility of what you asked for. For a declaration by the parliamentary group of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Representative Krastina Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since these days you are exchanging dirt from GERB and BSP for family, family trees rooted in Bulgarian municipalities, I want to tell you my point of view. I am sure that it will recognise a large part of the Bulgarian citizens who are constantly being suggested through obedient media that Bulgaria is booming and that we are almost a leading country in the European Union. The reality, honourable Members, is quite different. So I'm going to tell you about my family and thousands of other similar families. My seventy-five-year-old grandmother has already spent her pension on essentials, and by the next seventh of the month, she's gonna have her teeth squeezed if someone in the family doesn't help her. [[Noise and lines.]] She's still waiting for the policeman to protect her from the thieves who are waiting to take her last dimes. My uncle, colleagues, is struggling to buy all the textbooks of his children. My aunt slaved for pennies of elderly people in Greece. My sister is in front of the dilemma every day: milk or diapers to buy for her child with the generous motherhood that you voted her. [[Noise and lines.]] My friends... [[Noise and lines.]] I understand that my family is not as interesting as yours, because you never cared about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u7	You're in a statement, Ms. Taskova. Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u8	Please! My friends are collecting donations because the health care system can't spend money on a 26-year-old friend of ours, and we want him to live. I can keep enumerating. If you're dating ordinary people, you can't help but know about all this. Is this a thriving country?! Is that what we've earned, all of us, who have stayed here and worked honorably and dignifiedly?! Is that what our parents, grandparents, who have 30 years of work experience and now live in misery and humiliation?! I heard opinions from the government: how many luxury cars were on the roads and this was a sign of prosperity?! Yes, but most prosperers in our country are either crooks, or friendly circles of a state-guarded cousins and classmates appointed as our people to distribute the money to other people of ours. This is state and European money. Very few are those who, despite the system, succeed, and it cost them a lot. When I said classmates, let me mention mine. Even if I have your authority and the right to appoint, I have no one to offer, colleagues, because almost all of them have long since moved out of Bulgaria. Escape from the homeland due to lack of perspective is the strongest assessment of governance. I have repeatedly repeated this: the pocket of the common man is the measure of your work in the mandates you have had. Open your eyes and see reality in Bulgaria! Get down from Olympus and realize the situation you've brought your own people to! Because from everything we see, it turns out that, in order to survive in our country, you must surely have uncle the bishop. When a party is based on financial mechanisms to hold its people, what is it called, colleagues? Clientilism and corruption! I understand that you're very afraid, because if you stop the taps to your kinship circles, you'll fall apart, but be sure we can handle that, too. None of the people will suffer particularly if the wicked system collapses. Bulgaria obviously needs a new November 10th and it is coming! [[Noise and lines.]] All signs are present. I hope you will finally realise your responsibility in this House not only to debate, but also to do something good for ordinary people with the same passion that you defended your family circles with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Mrs. Lecheva, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Please vote as item one of the agenda in tomorrow's programme on our proposal under para. Art. 3 of art. 53, namely, consider our proposal to amend and supplement the Youth Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u11	Dear Mrs. Lecheva, such a procedure is not permitted under the Rules of Procedure. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: DECISION TO TERMINATE THE FULL POWER OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Anton Dinev Todorov as MP from the 25th election district I'm opening the debate, colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u12	There's a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u13	I don't see any speeches. We're on point one right now, Mr. Stoinev. I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What procedure? [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] Let us conclude on the first item of the agenda and I will give you the floor of procedure. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give you a procedure after we vote on this point, fellow Members. [[The President Dimitar Glavchev and a group of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are having a conversation with him.]] I have read the decision I have proposed to you to suspend the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Colleagues, I've closed the debate. Please vote regime. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) The MPs Dragomir Stoynev and Ivan Chenchev spoke at the stand with President Dimitar Glavchev and Vice-President Tsveta Karayancheva.)]] I closed the debate. I waited five minutes. [[Replys of Ivan Chenchev with microphones off, details with President Dimitar Glauchev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u14	If the proposal is made by the parliamentary platform, let us vote on it. [[Radio, applause and lines "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] We vote on the proposal that has been presented to you by the National Representative Vesela Lecheva. Vote 208 MPs: for 103, against 70, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u15	Colleagues, some of our MPs have not been able to vote, please revote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. It's a re-vote. They voted 207 MPs: for 101, against 77, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. Point one: Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. The draft decision has been presented to you. From what I understand, there are closed debates. [[Shouting, raging.]] You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since 1996, I have been working as a journalist in a number of printed media and television stations, including abroad. What is happening today under the windows of the Council of Ministers at the moment is indicative that after the Gates, Schemes and Models the government is already building a system to exert such unprecedented pressure, especially to media, who, everyone knows are called the fourth power. It is no accident that we all know and no one surprises the fact that we are at 109th place in the rankings of Reporters without a border....................... that we are last in the European Union on freedom of speech. It is also no coincidence that in recent years little over 100 media have ceased their activities and, believe me, it is not just because of a lack of good financial performance. Today we are not discussing the person who resigned. Today we are discussing citizens for the European development of Bulgaria, which lead Bulgaria and its journalism to the bottom. We're closer to Djibouti, which is 172nd place than to Jamaica, which is eighth place! And that must be known by the Bulgarian people! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A hundred media, colleagues, in recent years, sounds startling. We can't help but react to this thing. Of course we're joining our colleagues who are protesting. There is no one to silence the Bulgarian media, and do not try to do so! I'll finish with a quote from Voltaire: I may disagree with what you mean, but I will defend to the death the right to say it. They say silence is a sign of consent. Thank you for your silence, fellow Members! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In just a week Anton Todorov has become, I quote: from an exceptional personality with perfect analyticalness and punctuality, as Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov defined it to an unwanted colleague who weighs on the party GERB. Ten days from the nomination for the head of the Committee on Records, now resigned. Why, guys? Doesn't he often call the opposition colorful killers? Didn't you grope communists in parliament well enough? Hasn't the president and the presidential institution been slandered enough from the stands and on TV? Doesn't he wave pictures of his colleagues and exterminate every single meaningful debate?! Tsvetan Tsvetanov also said that Mr. Anton Todorov apologized and that is a worthy act. I also talked to him, he didn't put in the interview what came out in the media space. Mr. Anton Todorov is not a hero, nor is he so brave. He demonstrated strength and self-esteem in the media because such is his food environment in GERB party because he feels GERB's back behind him. Such were the first reactions of his defenders from GERB. They showed that they are guarding the people who bark the most, that is, Anton Todorov's words in the TV studio can be considered as raised and fed by the political party GERB. We do not want to deal with the personality of Mr. Todorov, but with the phenomenon Anton Todorov, a phenomenon that reveals the kitchen of the political party GERB. We should thank him because because of his imperceptibility he just pulled the mask and everyone saw what GERB was. A GERB is an internal force that undermines democracy, statehood, national unity and the authority of the institutions. Anton Todorov is a symbol of how politics, people who turn it into dirty work, into a spitting tool, for pressure, for blackmail. Imagine what would happen if this man was chairman of the Commission for the Files. Anton Todorov is also a symbol of the simplification in politics, and it is a simplification, entered through the front entrance, through the lists of GERB, through the democratic door of parliament. Why are you surprised that Parliament has such low trust? Anton Todorov is also a symbol of total, pointless abuse of the past and revival of hate language. It is a deliberate, deliberate propitiation of hatred in Bulgarian society. Hate blocks Bulgarian energy, divides the Bulgarians to manage easily. This behavior, honourable colleagues, is the modern " Bread and a spectacle." However, the bread is getting smaller and attempts to hide this unsuccessful. It is also the theater played loudly to silence an important issue, namely the fight against corruption. The great guilty to become the place where laws should be made, the political party GERB is a pointless theatre. Of course, you are already paying the price for this, but the scariest thing is, colleagues, that the institutions in this country are paying it. Parliament is devalued and Bulgaria is still a parliamentary republic. On Monday, you attempted to bring total disrespect to institutions and statehood and to the presidency. In the municipalities is feudalism and corruption. No one believes in democratic procedures and transparent competitions. State is rotting. That's what's scary! You will leave, but you want to drag with you both the state and the people. It is sad that in the last parliamentary elections, albeit with little, defeated the power that destroys the foundation of national unity, of dignity, of institutions. BSP always insists and will continue to insist on statehood. We ask GERB to stop overeating and eat institutions inside and focus on real work. Yes, today we are going to vote on a resignation, and you are assessing how to vote. BSP as a party that insists on statehood, of course, will vote for......................................................................................... But in the end, let's ask ourselves, why is there no such universal love as to stand behind Mr. Todorov? The question is also important for Valeri Simeonov, because there are currently protesters in front of the Council of Ministers. [[GERB lines.]] This is also a phenomenon, perhaps the time will come, and again here we will debate about another resignation from the government or from the political party GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u20	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would love to read absolutely everything Mr. Stoinev said. In this sense, we are solidarity with the position for both simplification and with all the other bad things that have been mentioned. However, we will use our right to express our different position. We will strongly vote against Mr. Anton Todorov's resignation, not as an expression of personal attitude towards Mr. Todorov, but as a principled position. We believe that in no case is Mr. Todorov worse than Mr. Delyan Dobrev or Mr. Valeri Simeonov and we should consider in general all negative and vicious practices that exist both in the National Assembly and in the government. The confession by submitting the High Level Corruption Act, on the one hand, shows that we are certain that in the high levels of power, in a sense, the government as the highest floor of the executive, there is corruption. We cannot afford with the sweeping, with the eviction and the quieting of these problems, with the expulsion of Mr. Todorov from parliament, somehow these problems to be swept away and again the highest levels of power to remain clean and holy, and some smaller people, without support in the highest levels, to drive them out of parliament. Until the problem is resolved with the others who have the same profile, we will not allow one by one, as was the case in Dobrich and he has already been forgotten in Dobrich there is no furrowing, now we will expel Anton Todorov, there will be no simplification. On the contrary, we will ensure that all these processes are cleared of the Bulgarian political life. Until then, these examples must sit in parliament so that we do not forget them. Thank you and good luck!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms will, of course, support this resignation because we believe that it is absolutely timely and accurate from the point of view of what happened during this session and from the beginning of this Parliament not only in the media but also in the stands of this House. If now BSP in the face of Dragomir Stoinev speaks about the language of hatred that was revived, we have been talking for two years. We've been talking about this language from DPS for two years. Today we harvest the fruits of this language. The language of hatred, regardless of who it is addressed to, whether from nationalists to minorities, or from communists, anti-communists to communists, former, present, mimicrified or so on. This language has no place in this room! From this high tribune it becomes an official language and from there it is transferred to the media, from there it is transferred to the public, so the DPS alert this hate language. All the people have suffered. He suffers from it all public life. When a colleague Stoinev mentioned the name of the Deputy Prime Minister from this platform, there were calls and discontents from the corner of the nationalists. Why, esteemed fellow nationalists? I look into your eyes and ask you, what language does Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov have?! Is he one of those who pioneers in this language in Bulgaria? Why isn't his resignation at the table here today? Wasn't he in the same studio?! Didn't he refer to the hosts in the same way? [[GERB lines.]] You can shout whatever you want. And his resignation is even easier than that of my colleague Todorov, because my colleague Todorov is a MP! His resignation is only the act of the Prime Minister. It was enough the Prime Minister as a man who is concerned about freedom of speech and has always said so, and we are convinced that he has asked Mr. Todorov to resign in light of what happened... Given that it really does harm GERB. But not just GERB, but all of us and the National Assembly. It is very easy for this consistent policy to be made towards the Deputy Prime Minister. So if you scream, and you scream, we're gonna want that resignation. Not only because of this case, but because of all the cases in which Valeri Simeonov allowed himself not only to use hate language but also to be a symbol of that hatred. And I recall that the DPS also wants the resignation of the President of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. We were arguing. Colleagues, consistency in politics is important. We're consistent. We had arguments and we said them. And we do not accept apologies on behalf of our electorate, neither to the parliamentary group nor to the DPS, because this language is not addressed to us. As I have already told you, this language does not work for the good of Bulgaria! For this reason, we have nothing personal against Mr. Velchev, or any other colleague. But when such mistakes are made, when such language is used, when this tribune sets an example, we will always act in this way. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u24	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u25	Madam President, honourable Members! I agree largely with what Mr. Tsonev said about hate speech. I do not agree with just one thing, and since we of the Political Party....we are also consistent and especially in this thing, I will say the following: yes, when we encounter signs of education, of professionalism, of solving problems in society, believe us, we will treat with great love, brotherly feelings for each of these MPs, or representatives of the government, of the court, of the prosecution, of whoever is doing his job in the interests of the society and of the citizens of Bulgaria. But you can't expect us to have love for all kinds of corruption schemes in Bulgaria, all those who plant corruption in Bulgaria, the nepotism. Believe us, this disgusts not only us, this disgusts the entire Bulgarian people and these types of events, not Anton Todorov, but Antontodorov's antontodorovity or Valerisimeonism, we cannot treat anything other than disgust, resentment and indignation. So let everyone be corrected, make sure that they also deserve the love and approval not only of our parliamentary group, but of the entire Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Second line? I don't see a second line. A hole, Mr. Tsonev? You won't use it. Any other speeches? Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! And this week we begin with a resigning point, with speeches: you closed the freedom of speech. But never in the history of the Bulgarian Parliament has the MP resigned because of his interview. This is proof that freedom of speech has the power of the media. No one can force Mr. Todorov to resign, according to the Constitution. He can stay in parliament and he can continue to do what he wants. He's resigning. Hate language I agree that it exists. But it's not in the form: the government speaks the language of hate, and the opposition speaks the language of love. Right? In the last two weeks, we have witnessed a mixed attack that has escalated into a mixed war, and it has one single objective to bring down the current democratically elected government. And you're not hiding it. To bring down the government at a time when Bulgaria will take over the Presidency of the European Union and this is the smallest problem, at a time when Bulgaria was declared fourth in economic growth across Europe for 2016, at a time when we increased pensions, at a time when society calmed down and people started spending their money. You want to bring down the government right now. Why? Because you failed to win the previous parliamentary elections. My colleagues at the DPS are very keen to rule with us. That's what I know from their language of love that flows from this tribune. [[Applause from GERB.]] However, colleagues, the Bulgarian people do not want this. The Bulgarian people don't want it! That's what the election results show. The only possibility of stable governance and a clear political majority, not a dynamic majority, not a majority of the half-shadows, was a coalition between GERB and the United Patriarchs. This government has so far implemented the programme and commitments it has made to the Bulgarian voters. We also discussed the question of Mr. Valeri Simeonov in our parliamentary group yesterday. Each of us may have aesthetic problems with one speech or another, but I would like to stress that we do not accept that Mr. Anton Todorov and Mr. Valeri Simeonov threatened on the air journalists. There are journalists in this room. I was a journalist, too. Journalists, colleagues, don't threaten on the air, don't threaten themselves during interviews, don't threaten themselves through public lines. They threaten hidden from society. And since there is a protest before the Council of Ministers, I will tell the protesters that a major link in limiting freedom of speech is the owners of the media. [[Applause from GERB.]] Media owners! They are the ones on whom pressure can be put, but they can reject pressure and give publicity to this pressure. I didn't hear a media owner say his media was under political pressure. In Bulgaria there are two public media "BNR and BNT." Does anyone there see censorship, restriction of freedom of speech? They are the most powerful of politicians. Are politicians capable of limiting freedom of speech? Yes, they may be capable, however, if they are allowed by journalists and media owners. And when we talk that Bulgaria is at the bottom of the freedom of speech rankings, some rankings in which, frankly, I do not believe because I know what the methodology is. They are made by some organizations that you otherwise criticize. These are the so-called "sorosoid organisations." But you're quoting them very hard. But assuming that we are at the bottom of freedom of speech, this is an assessment of Bulgarian journalism as well. I say that as a journalist, not as an MP, as a journalist. Because freedom of speech, colleagues, is guarded every day. It is not guarded on Wednesday as the first item on the agenda and it is guarded by Bulgarian journalists and not by Bulgarian politicians! Bulgarian politicians should be restricted, they are restricted. Because today we have the resignation of a Bulgarian MP because of a TV interview. Again, unprecedented. With this, however, we want to put an end to what has been happening over the past two weeks. We will not go into your tone, we will not explain ourselves, we will continue to follow our program. [[Applause from GERB.]] We will continue to rule the country, we will continue to win elections as we did three days ago. [[Applause from GERB.]] We beat you in the first round in five places! BSP you do not have and this is the assessment of your behavior! [[Applause from GERB.]] This is the hardest assessment of your behavior. DPS has them in two municipalities, I see Mr. Tsonev replicating me. In five settlements, two of which municipalities, we beat you. Not that this shows what the whole of Bulgaria thinks, but six months ago we beat you across Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]] And a year ago, you won the presidential election, which contradicts your thesis that our manipulations and forgeries are all-powerful. So we can lose choices, we can lose them, and we don't bounce after we lose them. Therefore, I call on you: calm down, it will also be useful for you! Let's argue about ideas, let's argue about politics. Let's argue about programs. Let us not reduce the debate to the lowest levels of personality and even on a family-personal basis! We're lowering the level. Let us, after this point, by voting on it, begin a little bit, and you and I, take care of the authority of this National Assembly. This is important. We're gonna disgust people and we're gonna lose everyone, and people are gonna lose. Thank you for your attention and I really hope that this will be over. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. The line said Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Mareshki has a line and one picked from BSP. Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Mr. Bikov, I'll give you a line, you got it right. Every time you say the wrong thing about DPS from this tribune, you'll get a line, be sure of it. A few very inaccurate things you said to use a soft tongue. DPS does not want to rule with GERB. The DPS wants nationalists not to bring them into power because this is a principle in Europe and the name of your party is Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. There is no such practice in Europe. The practice in Europe is different. Last reference.. the elections in Germany and the position of Mrs Merkel, with which you are from the same group of parties. Even during the elections, he said that whatever the result, the nationalists will not rule with them. And he keeps it. Second inaccuracies, that was the only option. Of course it wasn't your only option. Yes, the people pointed out GERB to take responsibility for the country's governance. But with whom people do not point, you chose with whom. And from this responsibility you will not run away to Europe, not to the Bulgarian citizens, not to the Bulgarian Parliament! And as for the language of hatred that you are talking about that the opposition did not use the language of love, one word I will only say from your speech and you will see that the terminology is again military: we have beaten you, we have beaten you in these elections. No, you won these choices is the right terminology if you want to stick to the normal language. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u30	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Mareshki, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Bikov, at the beginning of our meeting the colleague from our parliamentary group Krastina Taskova urged you to come down to the ground among the normal, ordinary Bulgarian citizens to come down from Olympus. You obviously didn't hear any of this. I'll remind you of some of these things. An elderly woman to date, and she is not one, but a collective image of the elderly in Bulgaria, has already spent her pension and is waiting for benefits from friends and acquaintances so that she can reach the date of the next pension. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] A Bulgarian citizen goes to neighbouring countries to slave for other richer European citizens so she can earn money and help her children in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u32	Is that a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u33	It's a line, yeah!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u34	What does this have to do with resigning?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u35	Please, please, don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u36	The resignation system shows, Mr. Bikov said that you have won the elections again and enjoy the admiration of Bulgarian citizens for raising pensions, raising incomes. I'm replicating this, if you don't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u37	And we'll keep winning them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u38	And I'm gonna have to ask you for some discipline, so don't waste my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u39	You're wasting time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u40	I will not say the other things, because if you really get down on the ground and get close to the ordinary Bulgarian citizen, you will feel these things: the lack of security in small towns because of the lack of police officers you promised to appoint. I will not go into your tone and fall to your level [[GERB noise and lines]] I would like to repeat how well Bulgarians live in Bulgaria, to repeat the statement that we are winning another election, but I will not stop telling you that profit in elections with the confidence of 17%, around 17% of Bulgarian citizens, you well think this is not support! This is disgust for the other 83% of this policy! I would be delighted if you so proudly go out and say, but if you win 50, 60, 70% support from Bulgarian citizens, but when with different methods you reach 17%, this is not a reason for pride.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u41	Mr. Mareshki...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u42	We have seen such occasions in Varna, we have seen them four mandates now - shame and disgrace!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u43	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u44	So take your correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u45	Thank you. Third line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, I would like to replicate you three moments from your speech, and I will try to comply with your call to keep the level that we have all lost in recent months. You're saying that we from the opposition want to overthrow the government. It is one of the roles of the opposition to want to push a government that it considers harmful and to present an alternative policy. But we're not the ones who manage to shake the government. It only and the majority that supports it, that is, you shake it every day, the brand new government of only four months is in a constant spiral of crises! We're not the ones who do it. We don't make this guy or that guy say anything. We don't make people from all over the country protest. We don't make cops protest. We don't make the military industrial complex protest. You do it with what you say, and with what is not happening, namely, you do not follow what you promised people. This is our finding, the first element on which I disagree with you. The second element on which I disagree with you is the cynical statement that journalists themselves are responsible for the situation of the press and the freedom of the press in Bulgaria. They had to defend their rights. That is exactly what they are doing to the Council of Ministers How else to do so, apart from making it clear that they themselves feel pressured. However, you say to them: "No, your owners are guilty! " [[Noise and lines.]] And finally, Mr. Tsonev, I was impressed by the word "beat" because you're talking about elections. I would not be proud in your place of these elections, because the way they were conducted makes their results not a political indicator. The results are an indicator of the reproduction of a system. Elections in Bulgaria no longer give political future because they are subject to absolute technology.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u47	Majority vote, why?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u48	We here have the references to who, where, how and why he voted. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And that's why you say we're fighting, that's why you're saying, "We're beating." Understand, in a democracy those who beat have no right to win! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u49	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Bikov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, I apologize for saying the word. Yes, I agree with Mr. Tsonev. We won this election. I hope I don't resign next Wednesday for that. [[Noise, excitement and lines from GERB.]] To Mr. Tsonev, why do we rule with nationalists? First of all, sticking labels to us is unacceptable. If we speak on a European scale, the United patriots have one European MEP who is in the group of Conservatives and Reformists. In this sense Bulgaria has a right-wing conservative governance. Why did Mrs Merkel make a coalition in Germany? Of course, it's her choice. Time will show what is better if we stick a label to a group of Bulgarian citizens, because it is not a group of 26-27 MPs, it is about several hundred thousand people who voted for the United Patriarchs, as it is about several hundred thousand people who voted for the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. These voices and these people must be respected. We can't take out either one or the other. If you want us to remove groups of people from society, we will not do so in respect of your constituents, nor with regard to the voters of the United Patriarchs. However, we have had two options -- or we are forming a right-wing conservative government that has a left-wing liberal opposition, as it happened, or we are going to go to new elections, where we will once again win and see what changes will be one month later. They would have lost the country and the people first of all. To Mr. Mareshki: perhaps Mr. Todorov resigned because of his pension. That's how I heard from his statement. Mr. Zarkov, the role of the opposition is to be corrective. You can, as opposition, do many useful things and point out real problems in society. You have decided to play on a compromised basis to attack one person or another personally, to have a strategy to oversize which you can travel by thinking that this is how you will win. That's your right. Finally, we'll see who was right and who was wrong. So far, the interim result shows that we win in 5 municipalities. You say you wouldn't be proud of this result. I wouldn't be proud of your score because you don't have a man on the run. [[Applause from GERB.]] Don't blame people in these settlements for being cowardly and crushed, because that's not the case. One million and 100,000. people in the last elections were neither crushed nor cowardly by voting for GERB! Look at the beam in your own eye! Maybe you've got it all wrong. First, look inside yourself for the mistakes, then for the others. [[Noise and lines.]] Journalists defend their rights. That's where I end up. No, by that I wanted to say that journalists can protest, but it is more important that every day and every minute they defend their rights, and this happens in the dialogue between them and the dialogue with the owners. It doesn't happen in the square. Censorship and restriction of freedom of speech happens very gradually, not felt, not abruptly. I turn very well to journalists: to defend this freedom, because they are there every day and work there.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u51	Thank you, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u52	Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u53	Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We're closing the debate. Once again, let me present to your attention a professional: "Project" DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts the authority of Anton Dinev Todorov as MP from the 25th election district Please vote. Vote 178 MPs: 153 against 14, abstention 11. The draft decision has been adopted. We move on to the next item on our agenda: CROSS OF A DEPUTY-PRESENTATIVE, THE REPRESENTATIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE INVESTICIATION. AND THE REPRESENTATIVE-ADOR, THE REPRESENTATIVE MANAGEMENT OF THE FINANCIALS COMMISSION. Allow me to remind you of the rules governing the election of a Vice-President in the Committee on Financial Supervision by the National Assembly: "1." The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by a decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in a summary a report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the importer two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. It will be introduced to you by the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u54	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure to allow Mrs. Karina Karaivanova and the candidate for one of the Vice-Presidents, namely Mr. Boyko Atanasov, the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u55	We are voting on the proposal made. They voted 106 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 2. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u56	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on the hearing of the proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission: Diana Ivanova Yordanova for Vice-President, Head of the Management Board and Boyko Atanasov Atanasov for Vice-President, Head of the Investment Activity At an open meeting held on 6 October 2017 and aired in real time on the website of the National Assembly, the Budget and Finance Committee held a hearing of the proposed candidates for Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission under Section IV of the rules of procedure adopted for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Investment Activity Board and of a candidate for a Vice-President in charge of management, Security supervision of presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee, noted that, evidently from the documents presented, candidates meet the requirements of the Financial Supervision Commission Act for Members and should be allowed to be heard. According to Section III of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission's opinion on the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is that at present there are no open documents establishing belonging to Diana Ivanova Yordanova and Boyko Atanasov Atanasov to the authorities under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The applications were presented by the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission Ms. Karina Karaivanova. Mr. Boyko Atanasov, who has more than 20 years of professional destiny is related entirely to the Income Agency. He started as a tax inspector in the NRA's main management then consistently held various leadership positions. He's now Deputy Minister of Finance. Mr. Atanasov is well-known in the circles that monitor the themes of Public Finance. The Genesis of his professional growth is eloquent enough to testify not only to his indisputable management experience but also to his excellent knowledge of tax problems. Ms. Karaivanova said that with her qualities Mr. Atanasov will be of great benefit to the Financial Supervision Commission, and the business and users of financial services will be pleased that the Financial Supervision Commission will enter an extremely responsible person who has serious achievements in simplifying the procedures, has a sense of constructive dialogue and has serious international authority. Mrs. Diana Yordanova has been proposed as Vice-President and Managing Officer. Mrs. Diana Yordanova has experience in the private sector as managing partner in accounting. In addition to managing private finances, she has serious experience in managing public finances as Chairman of the Budget Committee of the Municipal Council in Burgas, subsequently and as Chairman of the Sub-Committee on Control and Accountability of the Public Sector in the National Assembly. Mrs. Yordanova is a good communicator and manages to find a solution in difficult and complex cases, and these qualities are extremely important in the dialogue with supervised entities. Following the submission of the applications, personal presentation and concepts of their activities in the Financial Supervision Commission have been developed. First, Mrs. Diana Yordanova presented her concept as a candidate for Vice-President of the Board of Directors. By thanking Mrs. Yordanova for her nomination, she presented her concept of her future activities in the Financial Supervision Commission. The common vision is that the Financial Supervision Commission will be associated with professionalism, dialogue, work transparency and, last but not least, equal treatment of all supervised entities. An exceptional challenge would also be to increase the confidence of the supervised entities themselves in terms of management. Mrs. Yordanova said she will actively work on introducing risk-based supervision, namely identifying risk factors, risk assessment, supervision and follow-up monitoring, review and follow-up, and this will be a continuous and cyclic process, as is the recommendation given to us in the World Bank Report. She believes it is necessary to focus, in addition to combating market manipulation and prevention, which stimulates good business practices. Ms. Yordanova said that in her work she will be guided by one of the basic principles laid down in the Financial Supervision Commission Act, which is art. 11, which says that the Commission should work to protect investors' interests, but especially the insured persons. Another important task is a series of meetings, events with the investment community, business, so as to gather information about the feedback on the relations and work of the Commission itself. One of the tasks that Mrs. Yordanova has set herself is to increase the financial culture of the insured persons, together with the business operating on the insurance market, both through the media and through social platforms. Another important topic is institutional governance and possible reforms that must be implemented within the Financial Supervision Commission (financial supervision) to improve automation, data processing and facilitate supervisory activities and coordination between national supervisory authorities and competent authorities of the European Union. Mrs. Yordanova concluded that the most important thing is that the people's money, the insured persons should be reasonably and securely managed and invested, to bring profitability and, above all, to be available in pension insurance companies in 20, 30 years or more. The next person to present his concept was Mr. Boyko Atanasov, a candidate for Vice-President, head of management. By thanking Mr. Atanasov for his nomination and confidence, he presented his concept of his future activities in the Financial Supervision Commission, stating that his concept is based entirely on his vision for the realization of the Strategy for the Development of the Capital Market in Bulgaria and could be implemented by taking concrete action on the implementation of the measures that are laid down in it and by changing the way of work in the management and supervision of the investment activity. Mr. Atanasov briefly presented the current situation in the Financial Supervision Commission, which is a mandatory basis for presenting the objectives to the Commission. The candidate said that the holder of the position of Vice-President in charge of the management and supervision of the investment activity is obliged to protect the interests of investors. It must also ensure stability, transparency and confidence in the financial markets, as well as ensure their adequate and stable infrastructure. The objectives can be achieved through an initiative in three main directions. The first direction is with regard to legislation. In addition to a supervisory function, the Financial Supervision Commission also needs to have a role in the development of the country's financial markets. The Vice-President and his team must prepare and propose changes to the sub-regulation arrangements in order to facilitate administrative services in the direction of modernisation and updating. An extremely important part of the legislative initiative is harmonisation with European legislation. The harmonisation of Directive MF-2 is currently under way with the proposal for a change in the Financial Instruments Markets Act. In short, the main direction of legislative activity is optimization and change of the legal framework in order to harmonise with European legislation and in the direction of electronization and modernisation of the administrative service. The second type of initiatives are in relation to supervisory activities. In the field of supervisory activity, the objective will be to refocus the main functions of the supervisory authority from criminal to preventive. A long-term goal is stimulating good business practices. Priority will be the introduction of risk-based control, which will be a next step in the development of the Commission's supervisory activities. From the point of view of the internal organisation, joint target teams will be established. It will also be important to have a common database in the Commission to provide synchronised information from third governments. The implementation of this system will be accompanied by teamwork for analysis and various aspects of the activities of supervised entities and their more effective control. The instruments of action under this objective can be presented through regular seminars and trainings to be invited representatives of the different institutions, including the Financial Supervision Commission, the Bulgarian Stock Exchange, the Central Depository, the Bulgarian National Bank. Thirdly, these are the administrative initiatives for issuing approvals, authorisations provided for in the special law. An important part is the imposition of clear principles of working on these proceedings by management employees and clear principles of communication with supervised entities. Mr. Atanasov said that an important part of his concept is the idea of building a Single Internet portal for providing services to supervised entities through the Project "Single Entry Point" and that is the future in the development of the capital market. Another example of good cooperation in this area is the introduction into operation and the active use of the electronic reference system for the Financial Supervision Commission by the Central Depository. Changing the Commission's work model to dialogue, taking responsibility, seeking the best practices and setting a personal example will contribute to making the right decisions in its financial activity and financial discipline. Finally, Mr. Atanasov noted that an important part for the prosperity of the capital market is active communication with the business through regular meetings, seminars and discussions. All of this will allow a direct view of the business carried out by supervised entities, as well as of the problems they face, respectively, on their expectations that they have by the Commission. Following the presentation of the concepts, Members of the Committee on Budget and Finance were given the opportunity to ask questions and to give opinions. People's representative Yordan Tsonev expressed his satisfaction with the presentation of the two candidates and their comprehensive concepts. He congratulated Ms. Karaivanova for the good selection of the two candidates and said that working in a complex environment, it is necessary to have good communication not only with the European supervisory authorities but also with supervised entities. Commission President Menda Stoyanova said the GERB parliamentary group will support the proposed candidates and that the two candidates are of excellent reputation. They have a perfect professional biography and everyone with experience in their field will contribute to the development of the Commission's administrative capacity. She said she hopes to work together successfully and that she will receive support from all MPs. On the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to examine and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure the proposed nominations of Diana Ivanova Yordanova as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board, and of Boyko Atanasov Atanasov as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board. Mr. Chairman, for the record, I would like to say that I have read a summary of the report as provided in the rules. Its full version is available to the Members of the National Assembly if they wish to get acquainted with it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The applicant shall have the floor to present the candidates. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Karaivanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to you the nominations of the two vacant positions as Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. I propose Mr. Boyko Atanasov. It is known in the circles that monitor the theme of public finances. It contributes significantly to the development of the electronic management of the National Revenue Agency, introduces a number of optimizations of the working processes, shows innovation in the motivation of employees. There is no doubt that with these qualities Boyko Atanasov will be of significant benefit to the development of the Bulgarian capital market. As regards Vice-President and Managing Officer, I propose Mrs. Diana Yordanova. She's a colleague of yours in Parliament. Its serious practice, both in the private and in the public sector, is a serious prerequisite to successfully cope with the organization and the activities in the management of the insurance supervision. As MP and Vice-President of the Budget and Finance Committee Diana Yordanova actively participates in the process of adopting a number of laws in the financial and budgetary sphere and good knowledge of the legal basis on which pension insurance functions, which will make it a full addition to the management of the Financial Supervision Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karaivanova. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Members of the House to vote. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I present to your attention Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED Choose: 1. Diana Ivanova Yordanova as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of Management, Security Supervision and 2. Boyko Atanasov Atanasov for Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission, Head of the Management Board. Please vote. They voted 146 MPs: 117 against 6, abstention 23. The draft decision has been adopted. Boyko Atanasov and Diana Yordanova were elected Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. Congratulations and wish them good luck! [[Applause.]] In view of the procedures that await one of the candidates, the oath will take place in another meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u60	Moving on to the next point in our program: CHANGES IN THE COMPOSITION OF A STANDING DELEGATION. We have another vote coming up. "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. I request that the draft decision be submitted for consideration and voting in accordance with the established order. Importer is the national representative Gergana Stefanova Chairman of the political party parliamentary group Volja. The draft decision is as follows: Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Andon Dimov Donchev as the replacement representative of the permanent delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the draft decision. 115 MPs vote: 102, Against 9, abstention 4. The draft decision has been adopted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT AND ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The President of the Commission will introduce you to Mr. Halil Letifov. It's a second vote. I am making it clear that there will be many votes ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u61	If I may, first procedure, Mr. Chairman, for clearance. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules for Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Alexander Yovovski, Vice-President of the State Agency...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u62	Please vote on the proposal made. They voted 107 MPs: for 106, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u63	Thank you. The Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature is amended and supplemented by the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 1, with the word "the title" being replaced by the name "the title."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u64	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's supported text by proposing the Commission's version of the title to replace it with the title. Please vote § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u66	Paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 in the same way.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u67	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u68	We are voting from paragraphs 2 to 5, including on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs. For 102, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 2 to 5 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u69	Proposal by the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku under § 6. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 6 and shall propose the following wording: ........................................................... Article 13 is amended as E-Signature Art. 13. (1) Electronic signature shall be an electronic signature within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (2) An advanced electronic signature shall be an electronic signature within the meaning of art. 3, p. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) A qualified electronic signature shall be an electronic signature within the meaning of art. 3, p. 12 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: (4) The legal power of the electronic signature and of the advanced electronic signature shall be equivalent to that of the handwritten signature when agreed between the parties.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u70	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 6 by importer, generally supported by the Commission, edited by the same. I shall put to the vote § 6 on the Commission report. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u71	§ 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u72	We are voting on paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u73	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 10 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... Article 17 is amended as follows: "Developments for the creation of qualified electronic signature and devices for the creation of qualified electronic printing. Art. 17. (1) Compliance of devices for the creation of a qualified electronic signature and of devices for the creation of a qualified electronic seal with the requirements of Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 30 (1) of that Regulation. (2) The Executive Agency shall keep a public register of its accredited persons and publish on its official website a list of their certified devices for the creation of a qualified electronic signature and of devices for the creation of a qualified electronic seal. (3) The Executive Agency shall inform the European Commission of the circumstances under art. Article 30 (2) and Article 30 (2) 31 (1) of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: (4) The accreditation of the persons under para. 1 shall be carried out by the Executive Agency "Bulgarian accreditation service" in accordance with the requirements of the delegated acts adopted by the European Committee on Art. 30 (4) of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: (5) The certification of the devices shall be carried out under the conditions laid down in art. Article 30 (3) and Article 30 (3) 39 (2) of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u74	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 10 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u75	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ishan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 11 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... In Chapter 3, Section I is created a new Article. Art. 18 and art. 18a: secret of the data in the certification services Art. 18. A person other than the owner, the creator respectively, shall not have access to: 1. the data for the creation of the electronic signature, the electronic seal and the electronic time stamp; 2. the authenticity data of a website, and 3. the data relating to e-mail. In the present case, the Art. 18a. (1) The person designated as the holder of an electronic signature, the creator of an electronic seal and the sender of data in the case of an e-mail may not challenge the authorship, ownership, creation and dispatch to the addressee (s) where the electronic document created by the person is: 1. driven by an information system designed to operate in automatic mode, or 2. created by a person to whom access is granted to the manner of identification. (2) Alinea 1, t. 2 shall not apply from the day on which the addressee receives a notification that the electronic document does not come from the author, respectively, from the holder. (3) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the addressee of the statement has not taken due care.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u76	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 11 on the Commission report. 110 MPs vote: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 11 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u77	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 13 and shall propose the following wording: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 21 is amended as follows: "Requirements to the activities of certification-service-providers Art. 21. (1) The certification-service-providers shall comply with the security requirements under art. 19 of Regulation (EU) No but not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union. (2) The providers of qualified certification services shall also comply with the requirements of art. 24 of Regulation (EU) No but not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union. (3) The providers of qualified certification services shall keep the information under art. 24, Paragraph 2, point (h) of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: (4) The certification-service-providers shall not use the information collected and stored for purposes other than those relating to their activities. (5) The amount of the funds supported by the providers of qualified certification services and/or the insurance to cover the damage from default of their obligations in accordance with art. 24, § 2 (c) of Regulation (EU) No are defined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Communications Regulation Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u78	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 12 and 13 on the Commission report. Please vote. There are 104 MPs voting: 104, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 12 and 13 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u79	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u80	We are voting on paragraphs 14 to 18, including the Commission report. Please vote. There are 101 MPs voting: for 101, there are none against and abstentions. Paragraphs 14 to 18 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u81	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 19 and shall propose the following wording: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: A qualified certification-service-provider shall issue a qualified certificate at the request of the holder, as required by art. 24, § 1 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: 2. Allinei 2 and 3 are canceled. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The holder of the certificate issued within three days of its publication in the register may object to its content if there are errors or incompletes. 4. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: In the event that an objection has been made under para. 6, errors or incompleteness shall be immediately removed from the supplier by issuing a new certificate, without remuneration, except where errors and incompleteness are due to the provision of incorrect data. (8) The contents of the certificate shall be deemed accepted if no objection under para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 19 on the Commission report. Please vote. There are 106 MPs voting: 106, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 19 of the Commission report has been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u83	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u84	I shall put to the vote paragraphs 20 and 21 on the Commission report. There are 99 MPs voting: 99 against and abstentions. Paragraphs 20 and 21 of the Commission Report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u85	Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ishan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 22 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 is created t. 4, 5 and 6: "4." in the event of the death or imprisonment of the holder; 5. upon termination of the legal person of the holder; 6. when notified under art. 32, para. Art. 4, Art. 49, para. Art. 5 and art. 59, para. 8 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. 2. In para. 2 words or words are deleted, the pronoun is replaced by the author's, and the words in the author's representative authority are deleted. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The provider shall terminate the operation of the certificate when it finds that it has been issued on the basis of incorrect data. 4. Allinea 4 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u86	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 22 in the version of the Commission. Please vote. 105 MPs vote: 105 against and abstention. Paragraph 22 of the Commission report was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u87	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23. According to § 24, there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version for § 24: .................................................................................. Article 29 is amended as follows: "Accomplishment" Art. 29. The certification-service-provider shall be responsible under art. 13 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: Proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakke. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u88	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 23 and 24 on the Commission report, as well as the proposal of the same to create a new § 25, in accordance with its report. We are voting on paragraphs 23, 24 and 25 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 23, 24 and 25 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u89	In § The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u90	We are voting on paragraphs 26 and 27 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 26 and 27 of the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u91	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28 and shall propose the following wording: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Communications Regulation Commission is a national supervisory authority implementing the powers under Regulation No EU) 910/2014 and this law. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The Communications Regulation Commission shall grant qualified status to certification-service-providers under the conditions laid down in art. Art. 20, Art. 21 of Regulation (EU) 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it: (a) c. 4 a dash shall be placed after the word 33, after the words the suppliers of.............................................................................................................. Art. 17 and art. 21, para. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 21, para. 1 and 2 (b) To be created t. 5. It's five o'clock. obtain from certification-service-providers the information necessary for the performance of its powers. 4.The Previous Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and is amended as follows: The Communications Regulation Commission shall establish, maintain and publish trusted lists of persons providing certification services and qualified certification services according to art. 22 of Regulation (EU) 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and is amended as follows: The Communications Regulation Commission may participate in joint investigations under art. 18, § 3 of Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u92	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 28 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 28 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u93	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29 and shall propose the following wording: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In the title, the words 2. In para. 1 the words for a qualified electronic signature and the words for the regulatory acts in question shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u94	We are voting § 29 on the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 29 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u95	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u96	We are voting § 30 on the Commission report. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 30 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u97	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31 and shall propose the following wording: ........................ 31...................................................... A new article shall be created. 33: The conformity assessment bodies shall carry out the conformity assessment activities referred to in point (a) Art. 33. The assessment of the conformity of the activities of the providers of qualified electronic certification services with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No are carried out by accredited conformity assessment bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u98	We are voting § 31 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 31 of the Commission report is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32, as in para. 1 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 to amend this Regulation by means of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u100	We are voting on paragraphs 32 to 35, including the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. Paragraphs 32 to 35, including the Commission report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u101	By § 35 there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 35, which becomes § 36, and proposes the following wording: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 para. 1 is amended as It is punished with a fine from 1000 to 50 000 BGN if the act does not constitute a crime: 1. who commits or allows infringement under art. 21, para. Art. 3 and 4, Art. 26, para. 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, Art. 27, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 28, para. Art. 1 and 2 and art. 29; 2. who commits or allows infringement under art. Art. 15, art. Art. 19 (1) and (2) Art. 20, § 1, art. Article 21 (1) and (3) Article 23 (1) and (2) Article 24 (1) to (4) Art. 33, § 1, Art. Art. 34, § 1, art. Art. 40, Art. 44, § 1 of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the following: 3. a certification-service-provider providing a certification service which does not meet the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 4. who has committed a breach of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u102	Statements? I won't. We are voting § 36 on the Commission report. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. Paragraph 36 of the Commission report is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u103	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u104	We are voting on paragraphs 37 and 38 on the Commission report. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 37 and 38 of the Commission report are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u105	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u106	We are voting on the text of the importer for the name of the compartment, as well as § 39 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. The term "Additional provision', as well as § 39 of the Commission report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u107	"Transitional and final provisions." Mr. President, due to the technical error made, please reflect the name of the division correctly, only "Concluding provisions', before § 39.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u108	We are voting for the removal of the word "Transitional" and "Transitional" from the name of the division. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. We are voting on the name of the division. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The name of the division shall be: "Concluding provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u109	Under § 39, there is a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ihsan Hakku. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 40, and shall propose the following wording: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... The Council of Ministers shall, within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, adopt the regulation under Article 1. 21, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u110	We are voting § 40 on the Commission report. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 40 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u111	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u112	We are voting on paragraphs 41, 42 and 43 on the Commission report. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 41, 42 and 43 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u113	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 44 and shall propose the following wording: ..................................................... In the Penal Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 319 is the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u114	We are voting § 44 on the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: for 113, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 44 has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u115	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 45 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 332, para. 1, t. 1 Finally, the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Services is added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 344, para. 2 the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u116	We are voting § 45 on the Commission report. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 45 of the Commission report is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u117	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 46 and shall propose the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on Mescenity (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. The second sentence is amended as follows: "In cases where the application is submitted electronically, the requirements of Regulation (EU) No), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 912/2014', and of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certificates, and the third sentence is created: "The application is signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, and the documents under para. 3 shall be applied in the form of scanned copies. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 2 the words "the Call for Electronic Document and Electronic Signage" shall be replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 910/2014, the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services and the requirements for the provision of the relevant electronic administrative service laid down in the Law" and a sentence shall be created second: "The Report and the Report shall be signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u118	We are voting § 46 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: for 114, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 46 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u119	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 47 and shall propose the following wording: ss ss s s s s s In the Law on the publicity of the property of persons holding senior state and other positions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 4, para. The second sentence is amended as follows: "Declaration filed only on an electronic medium shall be deemed not to be submitted unless it is signed by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature in accordance with Regulation (EU) No and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u120	We are voting § 47 on the Commission report. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 47 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u121	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 48 and shall propose the following wording: ............... 48............................................................... In the Law on the Integration of People with Disabilities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29, para. 5 the words "the order of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage" shall be replaced by "the power road signed with an advanced electronic signature," an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No are replaced by "the European Parliament and the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014).), hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, para. 6 the words "the order of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage" shall be replaced by "the power road" signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u122	We are voting § 48 on the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 48 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u123	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 49 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Private Security Activities (prom., SG No. In § 1a of the Additional Provisions, the words... under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... and of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services and a sentence second is created: The written request under art. 15, para. 1, the declaration referred to in Article 1. 18, para. 2, the notifications referred to in Article 2. 20, para. Art. 1, art. 24, para. Art. 3 and Art. 27, para. 6 shall be signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u124	We are voting § 49 on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 49 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u125	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 50 and shall propose the following wording: .................................................................................. In the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 the words "the electronic document and electronic signature' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 60, para. 1 the words "the Call for Electronic Document and Electronic Signage' shall be replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certificate Services'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u126	We are voting § 50 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 50 of the Commission's report has been unanimously adopted. We're gonna make a 30-minute break. At 12:00, we proceed with the bill. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u127	We are continuing the meeting, honourable Members. Please invite the Quaestors to the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u128	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 51 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Stock Exchanges and Trades (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 para. 2 is amended as follows: The request shall be filed either in writing or electronically signed with an advanced electronic signature, with an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21c is replaced by the The request shall be filed in writing or electronically signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Art. 42, para. 2 is amended as The request shall be filed in writing or electronically signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate or a qualified electronic signature, subject to the requirements of Regulation (EU) No Under § 51, there is a proposal from MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importers for § 51, which shall become § 52 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Commercial Register Act shall make the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 the words under the terms and conditions of the Electronic Document Act and the Electronic Signature Act shall be replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No are replaced by a European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC, hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 2. Paragraph 5a, para. 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words "e-mail signature" under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature " shall be replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 52 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u129	Are there any speeches? I won't. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski under § 51 by importer. Please call off the vote. Give me the list of names checkers. There's no jurisdiction. Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov is absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev is absent Alexander Koychev Ivanov is absent Alexander Mairov Siddy is absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov is absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov is absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov is absent Altimir Emilov Adamov is absent Angel Iliev is absent Andon Dimov Donchev is absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov is absent Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova is absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova here Anton Konstantinov Kutev is absent Asya Atanasova Peeva here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov is absent Atanas Petrov Kostadinov here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov is absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov is absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev is absent Boris Vangelov Borisov is absent Boris Petkov Kirchev here Boris Yankov Yachev is absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva here Burhan Ilyazov Abase here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov here Valentin Georgiev Lambev here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov is absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova is absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov is absent Vasil Milanov Antonov here Vasil Tsvetkov here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva is absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki is absent Veska Marinova Nencheva is absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva here Vladimir Slavchev Valev here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev is absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov here Volen Nikolov Siderov is absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov is absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev here Georgi Evdokiev Markov is absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov is absent Georgi Kolev Kolev here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski here Georgi Tenev Stankov here Georgi Chenkov Turnovalyski is absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov is absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova is absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev is absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski is absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov here Desislava Angelova Todorova here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova here Desislava Jekova Taneva absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova is absent Diana Dimova Sawateva here Diana Ivanova Yordanova here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov here Dimitar Boychev Petrov here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev is absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov is absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov here Donka Dimova Simeonova here Dora Ilieva Yankova is absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev is absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva is absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova is absent Elena Nikolova Yoncheva here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov here Emil Marinov Hristov is absent Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent Errol Osman Mehmet here. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev is absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov is absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov is absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov is absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev here Ivan Kirov Genov is absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski is absent Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov is absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva here Ivo Angelov Hristov here Iglika Ivanova-She's here Ilian Angelov Timchev is absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova here Irena Metodieva Dimova here Irena Todorova Anastasova is absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov here Ihsan Halil Hakke here Yordan Apostolicov here Yordan Iliev Yordanov here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov is absent Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev here Kalin Nikolov Popovski is absent Cyril Boyanov Kalfin here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva here Kolyo Yordanov Milev here Konstantin Veselinov Popov here Cornelia Petrova Nino is absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev here Krasimir Mitkov Subev here Krasimir Hristov Iankov is absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin here Kristina Maximova Sidorova is absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov is absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov is absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev here Manoil Minchev Manev here Manol Trifonov Genov here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva absent Martin Vladimirov Tinchev here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova is absent Milen Vassilev Mihov here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova is absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov is absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov is absent Mustafa Sally Karadaye is absent. Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova here Nelly Ruskova Petrova here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov here Nikolay Asenov Tishev is absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov is absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov is absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov here Nona Krasteva Yotova is absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov is absent Pencho Plamenov Milkov here Petar Boykov Vitanov here Petar Georgiev Kanev here Peter Hristov Petrov here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova here Plamen Dulchev Nunev here Plamen Ivanov Manushev here Plamen Tachev Petrov here Plamen Trifonov Hristov is absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev is absent Radostin Radoslavov Tanev here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov here Rumen Vassilev Gechev is absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev here Rumen Petrov Genov here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev is absent Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova is absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova here Sevim Ismail Ali is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov here Simeon Christov Simeonov here Slavi Dichev Netzov here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov here Slavcho Stoev Atanasov here Snezana Georgieva Dukova here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski is absent Spas Yanev Panchev is absent Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov is absent Stanislav Todorov Stanilov here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova here Stefan Apostolicov here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev is absent Stefan Lambov Danailov here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev here Tanner Mehmed Ali is absent. Tanya Todorova Petrova is absent Tasko Mihaylov Ermenkov here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva is absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva absent Todor Bajchev Bajchev here Toma Lubomirov Bikov here Toma Nikolov Tomov here Philip Stefanov Popov here Hayri Recepov Sadakov here Halil Recepov Letifov here Hamid Barry Hamid is absent. Hassan Ahmed Ademov here Hristian Radev Mitev is absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev here Hristo Grudev Grudev here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev is absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov is absent Chavdar Yordanov Velinov is absent Julian Krastev Angelov is absent Yulian Mihailov Papasimov here Yavor Bozhilov Notev is absent Yavor Rumenov Bojankov is absent We only have a copy to read: Alexander Siddi, Angel Isaev, Andrian Raykov, Alexander Matsurev, Boris Yachev, Adlen Shevked, Atanas Tashkov, Vessela Lecheva, Ahmed Ahmed, Veska Nencheva, Bogdan Botsev, Alexander Ivanov, Andon Donchev, Atanas Stoyanov, Daniela Dimitrova, Alexander Simov, Velislava Krasteva, Boris Vangelov, Jordan Mladenov, Alexander Sabanov, Maria Ilieva, Vecdi Rashidov, Alexander Nenkov, Krum Zarkov, Ramadan Atali, Stanislav Ivanov, Tanya Petrova, Emil Hristov, Ivaylo Konstantinov. We have a quorum. We are voting on a proposal made by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 128 MPs: 50, against 48, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposals for § 51 and § 52 and for the removal of the text of the importer of § 52 by importer. They voted 122 MPs: for 121, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 51 and 52 of the Commission report have been adopted and § 52 of the importer has been rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u130	Paragraph 53 "A proposal from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 53 and propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on the Stocks of Oil and Oils (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 36 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. The second sentence shall be replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 2. In para. 6 the words under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage shall be replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No are replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature, based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u131	We are voting § 53 on the Commission report. They voted 113 MPs: 112 against 1, no abstentions. Paragraph 53 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u132	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 54 and propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Access to Public Information (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 24, para. 2 the words "the electronic document and electronic signature' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014) and of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u133	We are voting § 54 on the Commission report. They voted 114 MPs: 111, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 54 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u134	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u135	Report the next one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u136	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 56 and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36, para. A sentence 1 second sentence shall be replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No are replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature, based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No are replaced by the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 6 the words under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage shall be replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No are replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature, based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 4 is amended as follows: The results referred to in paragraph 4 of this Article shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1, t. 3 and the notifications under para. 2 may be submitted electronically, signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108, para. 4 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112a the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 171a words under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signage shall be replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature, as required by Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u137	We are voting § 55 and § 56 on the Commission report. They voted 124 MPs: 124, none against, no abstentions. Paragraphs 55 and 56 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u138	According to § 57, there is a proposal from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 57 and proposes the following wording: ...... 57............................................................... In the Law on Electronic Communications (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. Art. 21, para. 5 is amended as follows: The Commission shall register and monitor the electronic certification services activity as defined in Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014.), hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 the words "the Call for Electronic Document and Electronic Signage' shall be replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services'. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 5 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51, para. 1, t. 4 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 251e, para. 6 the words are sent electronically in compliance with the requirements of the Law on Electronic Governance and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Sign-up are replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature as required by Regulation (EU) No are replaced by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u139	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 41, against 40, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 57 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 57 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u140	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 58 and proposes the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Act on Accounting (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 4, para. 5 the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u141	Give her the next two paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u142	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u143	I shall put to the vote paragraphs 58, 59 and 60 on the Commission report. They voted 118 MPs: 118, none against, no abstentions. Paragraphs 58, 59 and 60 of the Commission report are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u144	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 61 and proposes the following wording: ......... 61..................................................................... In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) in § 1a, para. 1 of the additional provisions, the words "the electronic document' and the electronic signature' shall be replaced by "the electronic document and electronic services' and a sentence shall be created second: "the applications shall be signed by an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate, or a qualified electronic signature as required by Regulation (EU) No and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u145	We are voting § 61 on the Commission report. There are 124 MPs voting: 124, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 61 of the Commission report is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u146	The Commission shall, in principle, support the wording of the importer for § 62 and propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Civil Registration (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 105, para. 4 the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u147	Present to § 66 including, if you please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u148	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 63. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 64. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 65. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u149	We are voting on paragraphs 62 to 66, including the Commission report. The vote is 126 MPs: 125, against no, abstention 1. Paragraphs 62 to 66, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u150	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 67 and proposes the following wording: ................. In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...), Art. 75, para. 1 the words "the Call for Electronic Document and Electronic Signage' shall be replaced by "the Call for Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u151	We are voting § 67 on the Commission report. 118 MPs voted: 116, no objection, abstention 2. Paragraph 67 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u152	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 68 and proposes the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. ...) in § 22 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words........................................................................................................................... is replaced by........................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 69.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u153	We are voting § 68 and 69 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. Paragraphs 68 and 69 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u154	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 70 and proposes the following wording: ...... 70......................................................................... In the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (prom., SG No. ...) in § 5a, para. 1 of the additional provisions, the words.............................................................................................................................. is replaced by........................................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 71. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 72.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u155	We are voting § 70, 71 and 72 on the Commission report. 125 MPs vote: 124, none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 70, 71 and 72 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u156	The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 73 and proposes the following wording: .............................................................................. In the Act on Veterinary Practice (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 229b, para. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u157	We are voting § 73 on the Commission report. There are 119 MPs voting: 119, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 73 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u158	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 74 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u159	We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 74 by importer. 118 MPs vote: 105 against 4 abstentions. On a proposal from the Commission, § 74 by importer is rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u160	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 75, which shall become § 74 and shall propose the following wording: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Act for recognition of professional qualifications (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 97, para. 4 the words by the Electronic Document Act and the Electronic Sign-up Act shall be replaced by the words "by Regulation (EU) No 910/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services in the case of electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC (OB, L 257/73 of 28 August 2014). and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u161	We are voting § 74 on the Commission report. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 74 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u162	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 76 and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u163	We are voting on the Commission's proposal. There are 126 MPs voting: 124 against 2, no abstentions. The Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer under § 76 has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u164	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 77, which shall become § 75.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u165	We are voting § 75 on the Commission report. There are 126 MPs voting: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 75 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u166	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 78, which shall become § 76, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Child Protection (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 43c, para. 5 the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u167	We are voting § 76 on the Commission report. 113 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 5. Paragraph 76 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u168	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 79, which shall become § 77, and shall propose the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Social Assistance (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 18b, para. 5 the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u169	Let us vote § 77 on the Commission report. 120 MPs voted: 120, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 77 of the Commission report was adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u170	Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski. The Commission does not support the proposal: screated § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Electronic Identification (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments and additions are made: a) Previous text becomes para. 1. (b) the creation of para. 2: A certificate of qualified electronic signature may be used as an electronic identification certificate and the public key in it shall be used as an electronic identifier within the meaning of the preceding subparagraph. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the Union shall be replaced by a comma in the title and, at the end of the text, after the word (b) in para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." an electronic register of qualified certificates under Chapter 3, Section III of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services and the public keys contained therein declared for use for electronic identification. 3. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 20a: "Declaration of a certificate of qualified electronic signature as an electronic identification tool Art. 20a. (1) The declaration of a certificate of qualified electronic signature as a means of electronic identification under para. 2 of art. 3 shall be made by submitting a written application to the Minister of Interior by the author or holder of the certificate. (2) The applicant shall appear personally at the Electronic Identification Centre and shall provide the declared certificate of qualified electronic signature and valid identification document. (3) An application by a minor or a person who has been incarcerated shall be satisfied if the requirements of para. 2 and: 1. the application is also signed by a parent, an appropriate guardian or guardian of the person; 2. the parent, respectively the guardian or guardian has appeared personally and has submitted a valid identification document. (4) The Minister of Interior shall provide an opportunity to verify the validity of the presented identity document under para. Two and three. (5) The electronic identification centre shall be obliged to carry out a verification of the validity of a certified electronic signature certificate. (6) In the case of checks carried out successfully under the preceding paragraphs, the certificate of qualified electronic signature declared as an electronic identification means shall be entered in the register of electronic identification certificates. (7) One person may declare more than one certificate of qualified electronic signature as a means of electronic identification. (8) Where the application to declare a certificate of qualified electronic signature as an electronic identification means is made by the issuer of the certificate, the relations between him and the person under para. 2 shall be governed by a contract. 4. In the title of art. 21, at the end of the text after the word "the service" is added for electronic identity. 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 21a: "Stop, resume and continue the use of a qualified electronic signature certificate as a means of electronic identification Art. 21a. (1) The Minister of Interior or an official authorised by him shall have the right to suspend the operation of an electronic identification certificate of qualified electronic signature, if there is a reason for damage to the interests of the holder of the certificate or of third parties. (2) The Minister of Interior or an official authorised by him shall be obliged to suspend the operation of an electronic identification certificate declared as a qualified electronic signature at the request of his owner, after having verified his identity, requesting the indication of additional data included in the request for the issuance of the certificate. (3) The Minister of Interior or an official authorised by him shall be obliged to suspend the operation of a certificate declared as an electronic identification certificate of qualified electronic signature at the request of a person with an identified identity which, according to the circumstances, shows that he knows of security breaches relating to the unlawful use of the certificate declared, without delay informing the holder of the suspension of the certificate. (4) The suspension of a certificate of qualified electronic signature declared as an electronic identification means shall be made by entering in the register of certificates of qualified electronic signature used as a means of electronic identification. (5) The effect of the certificate shall be resumed by the Minister of Interior or by an official authorised by him at the request of the holder of the certificate of qualified electronic signature by entering in the register of certificates of qualified electronic signature used as a means of electronic identification. (6) The request for suspension and renewal may be made through a person under art. 8. (7) The request for suspension may also be made electronically and the person is identified by the order of this law. (8) The continuation of the period of use of qualified electronic signature certificates as a means of electronic identification may be declared by electronic means prior to its expiry and the person shall be identified in accordance with this law. 6. In the title of art. 22, at the end of the text after the word 7. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 22a: supplied use of a qualified electronic signature certificate as a means of electronic identification Art. 22a. (1) The use of a certificate of qualified electronic signature as an electronic identification means shall cease: 1. with the expiry of the period of validity of the certificate of qualified electronic signature; 2. upon the death of the holder of the certificate. (2) The Minister of Interior shall immediately cease the operation of the certificate: 1. at the request of the holder of the certificate after having verified his identity; 2. when establishing that the certificate has been issued on the basis of incorrect data; 3. when changing the data on the basis of which the certificate of qualified electronic signature has been declared as a means of electronic identification; 4. in the case of incidents related to compromising the security of electronic identification; 5. in the cases referred to in art. 32, para. Art. 3, Art. 49, para. Art. 4 and art. 59, para. 7 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. (3) The termination shall be entered immediately in the register referred to in Article. 19th para. 1, t. 3. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 in its second use is added after the word "identicity" "or" declared as an electronic identification certificate for a qualified electronic signature."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u171	You have the floor to speak. Give her the other offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u172	Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski: screated § 81: ........ 81...................................................................... In the Law on Electronic Governance in art. 22 is created. 6: (6) The identification of the natural persons under their digital signature shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Electronic Identification. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u173	You have the floor to speak. Mr. Danchev, you will both defend, won't you? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u174	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In the recently presented management program, the government of Prime Minister Borisov shows the development of e-government as the basis for modernization of the state administration and optimization of the administrative services processes of citizens and businesses as a top priority. In fact, to be more specific, I would like to draw attention to Measure 879 of the Government Management Programme. It reads: "Introduction of a national electronic identification scheme. Great, but in the current and planned activities of the government of electronic identification there are few basic things missing such as ensuring the identification of a natural person by electronic signature and identification of an institution by electronic seal. That is why, led precisely by the belief that successful administrative reform nowadays cannot be done without the use of e-government funds, we have proposed texts that have been proposed to discuss your attention. The main idea of our proposal is to provide the possibility of identifying a natural person by electronic signature. The most important step towards the introduction of electronic identification is the E-Identification Resource Building Project, the most important of which is the Electronic Identification Register supported by the Centre for Electronic Identification. It should be noted here that people will receive an electronic identifier only after the replacement of the personal documents on which there will be a chip with this identifier is carried out, i.e. the Electronic Identification Centre will probably be ready, but there will be no carrier of the electronic identifier and the identification under the current Electronic Identification Act cannot be used. Or to put it another way, when ready, it is possible to start immediately identification by a digital signature, because currently the certification services companies issue and have multiple digital signatures issued. If we rely only on the identification under the current Law on Electronic Identification, it is not clear when everything will be ready, when there will be enough I.D. to start applying this type of identification, and this postpones all deadlines for the construction of electronic management, that is, the introduction of digital signature identification not only fills an important technological gap, but also enables the construction of electronic management to be accelerated. I will only mention that without the additions proposed by us, when submitting applications for an electronic service, two PINs will have to be introduced: one for signing the application to be submitted and another for identification when submitting it. When submitting an application for an electronic service, an identification of the applicant under the existing order of the Law on Electronic Identification shall be carried out, which requires the introduction of a PIN. In addition, in order to ensure the integrity of the application submitted, it is necessary to sign it with an electronic signature requiring the submission of a second PIN. Thus claiming an electronic service artificially and unnecessary is difficult by submitting two pins, which is extremely embarrassing, and is primarily a sign of poor legal regulation. This is not only not supported from a technological point of view, but it creates a number of problems. For example, what happens if the signatory and the applicant are different individuals? Even if they are the same, how is it certified that the author of the application for a service is precisely the identified natural person at the time of submission? The need to verify the identity of a natural person by electronic signature is unconditional. In addition, it shall be possible to perform online in the course of automatic processing of electronic documents after their delivery to the host party's information system has been completed. An example of the irrefutable need for such verification is the processing of an electronic document signed by more than one person. For example, the identity of one of them is certified in the computer session for the delivery of the electronic document to the host party, using the identification by means regulated by the current Law on Electronic Identification. But the question is how will the identification of the other persons who signed the document be carried out? In this sense, I believe that the current amendments to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature are grounds for amendments to the Law on Electronic Identification and the Law on Electronic Governance. Changes only extend the scope of both laws without changing the existing provisions in them. The changes in both laws are appropriate to be introduced through this Draft Law, because they are a consequence of the amendments to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature and thus ensure a quick and timely filling of the emptiness in the legal regulation for working with electronically signed documents. However, as you have heard from the report of the President of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, all these explanations that I have also submitted to you have not been accepted by the majority of the Commission, which for me is without logic. Allow me, honourable Members, to draw your attention to a small part of the opinion given by the President of the Communications Regulation Commission Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, regarding the proposed additions, which, I think, brings some clarity. I quote: The proposed amendments are essential. They extend the scope of the Law on Electronic Identification and change the National Scheme for Electronic Identification laid down in the Law. The Communications Regulation Commission (CRC) considers that the current proposal for amendment of the Law on Electronic Identification was delayed in view of the actions already taken to implement the Law by the Ministry of Interior. At present, the procedure for conducting a public procurement with the subject of implementation of the National Electronic Identification Scheme is under way. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the My fellow Members, from what I have been saying about me, and I also think about you, it becomes very clear that the proposal is rejected not because it is bad, but because at some point someone has not thought something right, but was in a hurry to launch a pilot procurement for another, pre-programmed and programmed failed national project on which the Ministry of Interior will spend nearly 14 million, and at a time when employees are being told that there is no money for an increase in their salaries. [[Noise and lines.]] Isn't this an absolute recognition that once again BSP's proposals are rejected...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u175	Mr. Danchev, just a moment. Dear colleagues, Mr. Danchev justifies two proposals, which is why he is entitled to double time. Here you go. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u176	Isn't this an absolute recognition that once again BSP's proposals are rejected without having adequate arguments? The only argument I see is the desire of the government to award projects related to e-government, which ultimately do not work, but which give prerequisites for future spending on the same issue. In order not to be naked, I would like to point out to you that the documentation of the said public procurement indicates that in 2013 a pilot project for the construction of the Register for Electronic Identification was implemented. In the absence of an adopted and operational legal framework, the project has not been implemented in constant test operation. There is also no adequate technical infrastructure to ensure the operation of all systems and subsystems. The pilot decision on electronic identification is not working at the moment. It is obvious that the state in this project has lost 1 million. Eight hundred and eighty-five thousand. lv. without VAT. Now another 14 million will be spent, and we will probably soon come to the conclusion that what we need to do is not done again because of a failure in the legal provision, and, of course, there will be a new spending of millions. The general conclusion that can be drawn is that the ongoing and planned activities of a government do not solve the main problems of identification in the work of any resources for electronic management. It makes no sense to create such resources and, unfortunately, condemns another failure to build electronic governance. But unfortunately, the possibility of spending money on another mega system is not cancelled. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. On the offer, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, why should this proposal not be supported? I'll be brief, I don't need to waste any of the National Assembly's time in the long line. The main thing that BSP colleagues are trying to pin on us is that electronic qualified signature and electronic identification are the same thing. There's no such thing! The electronic qualified signature, honourable gentlemen on the left, and the electronic seal are in an offline environment, demek: when a person signs an electronic signature or a stamp, the other side may see this message in half an hour, in an hour, in a year or two, it may never see it. Is that right? That's right! While the electronic identifier requires online registration. Is that right? That's right! So let's not mix the concepts, let's not fool the room, that we're talking about the same thing on the one hand. On the second hand, the systematic location of the possibility of using a qualified signature for the needs of electronic management is not in the Law on Electronic Identification, which governs the state electronic identification scheme. The electronic qualified signature is supported by private companies. Is that right? That's right! The electronic identifier shall be maintained by the State. So let's not mix the notions again, ladies and gentlemen on the left. There is no obligation of the state authority to check and ensure the performance and infrastructure of the electronic qualified signature. The mechanism for the use of a qualified electronic signature for electronic identification is admissible, this is a fact, but in order to become a national scheme, it must be done in accordance with Regulation 910, that is to say it cannot be revised by national law because it is a regulation, ladies and gentlemen! The Provider of these signatures must prove to the State that it fulfils certain requirements so that the State can notify the European Commission that the scheme is secure and allows online identification. In short, your proposal does not correspond to the Law in question, that is what I am trying to explain because, I repeat, it is a state body and it is in an online environment. You're talking about private bodies that are offline. So it is better to withdraw your proposal, to make changes in accordance with Regulation 910 and then things can happen to you, and not to mislead the House that they are talking about the same thing. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u180	Dear Mr. Ivanov, we make a good distinction between electronic signature and electronic identification. We do not mix the two concepts, nor do we cancel the basic four functions of the electronic signature. A new interpretation of the data in an electronic signature is introduced on the basis of their declaration to the Electronic Identification Centre (EIA)................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. [[Relations of MP Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u181	Please, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u182	The identification by electronic signature introduces the missing offline identification of a natural person by electronic signature. The introduction of an offline identification fills a gap not only present in the national identification scheme required by Regulation 910/2014 but is essential for the practice of electronic management. Moreover, Regulation 910 of 2014 does not at all bind certification services to a technology of the type laid down in our Law on Electronic Identification but extends its effect to other certification technologies, one of which is precisely the technology of the electronic signature. In this sense, the authentication technology, under our Law on Electronic Identification, is a positive contribution extending the scope of the European Union's efforts to create and implement secure electronic transactions, but the obligation to establish rules and means of direct application of Regulation 910 can only be fulfilled if electronic signature identification is ensured by means of certification services provided by the Electronic Identification Centre. The electronic signature scheme proposed by us as a means of electronic identification engages in online verification only the Center for Electronic Identification, not the certification services companies that issued the electronic signature. [[The President signals that time has expired. Replies from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] This technological verification is almost identical to the identity verification currently laid down in the Law on Electronic Identity. In other words, the amendments to the Law on Electronic Identity do not introduce in principle a new verification. The certification of a qualified electronic signature shall be verified by the Electronic Identification Centre once upon declaration of that certificate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u183	Thank you, it's all clear. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Danchev, you read something you read four minutes ago. Why did we have to waste the room's time with your false claims again? I'm saying again, right now. [[crowd cheering, noise and speech]] We're talking about two different things. Why are you pretending you don't understand me? That's what I don't understand. Why are you pretending you don't understand me? Firstly, it is not a matter of national law that this thing, but must be passed through the regulation, according to the regulation, the relevant notification procedure to go to the European Union. Do you understand this thing? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u185	No! [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u186	Secondly, the official registrations and the online registrations are two very different things. I hope you understand that, too. So I say again: I don't understand why we have to waste time at the gym?! Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u187	A statement? [[Heckling]] To speak, the public representative Georgi Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will try to explain it quite simply so that Mr. Ivanov can understand me. [[sighs, laughs and excitement]] And he, if he can give you a signal to back him up, support him. If not, I'm sure in a few months you will. What's this about, guys? Electronic identification and electronic signature two chips. One you identify with, the other you sign. What we want is for this thing to be in a chip. When you want to sign something, put it where it's supposed to be, recognize the system, identify you and sign it. What Mr. Ivanov wants is for you to wear two of these things. If they have to sign three people, you have to wear six of these things. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking the following question. [[Noise and lines.]] If you need three people to sign one document, the first person is identified by your system and the system stops accepting more people to identify, the other three have only to sign. I mean, this one guy, taking the three flash drives of the other three, can sign whatever he wants. That is what this is about, we explained it in the Commission. There were representatives of CRC, representatives of the State Agency for Electronic Governance, experts, specialists, or advisors, I do not know what else were involved in this matter, and they said the following words. Just quote, listen carefully: The offer is very good. Your offer is late. The proposal does not contradict either a European directive or a European regulation, the problem is that there is a announced contract of 13 million. lv. and we have to stop her. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u189	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u190	Dear colleagues, I am sure that this proposal in two, three, five months you will propose it with importer Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. We will support you then, because it is the right decision. Now I know you'll reject it. Deny it, it's your right, but we don't solve the matter. There's a 13 million-million-dollar pilot project. lv. We're going to do it and you're going to see that this thing isn't happening and you're going to go back to this proposal that we're now proposing. Because until this identification happens, there are currently issued I don't know how many tens, hundreds of thousands of electronic signatures... Don't you want the electronic controls to go fast, to work next year?! When will this system start? The pilot project is to issue several dozen maps and for all Bulgarians, for the whole population? So think again, Mr. Ivanov, you understand me very well, I also understand what you mean. It belongs in this Law. It was said by colleagues and experts, and if you raise the red pen to support colleagues, I would be grateful. Otherwise...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u191	The green one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u192	The green one! Thank you, Mr. Glauchev. So, the green pen! Ask them, pick up the green pen. [[speaking indistinctly]] So let's move forward. As you can see, the whole parliamentary group unanimously supported the Law because it is a good Law because there must be such a Law because e-government is a priority for us and for you as well. In detail, though, we're getting away with something. Let's support him and move on. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u193	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u194	Dear Mr. Svilensky, as a matter of fact, I couldn't understand... [[Laughter]] Yes, electronic signature is not mandatory. Private companies do this activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u195	Louder, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u196	The electronic signature is not mandatory, Mr. Svilenski who wishes goes, pays, has an electronic signature. The identification will become mandatory, it will be at the expense of the state. You want to become the mandatory electronic signature and every Bulgarian citizen from the age of age, even minors have a known competence, to a person of 90, to be alive and well as they lived, to oblige them to have an electronic signature. That's what I heard from your statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Maybe you want to do something like you pulled a S.E.A.T. out of the Ministry of Interior and gave it to some private companies. The electronic signature has existed for many years: he who wants to go and make an electronic signature. And there's one more thing I'd like to tell my colleagues. Yes, the electronic signature applies only to the institutions in Bulgaria. Electronic signature Bulgarians abroad generally do not have because they do not need abroad. You want to oblige every Bulgarian citizen to go and pay to have an electronic signature?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u197	Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Glauchev! I'm sorry you misunderstand me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u199	Me?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u200	No, Mr. Glauchev. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u201	More Mr. Danchev understood as I told you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u202	I'm sorry. I explained elementaryly how one proposal will work, how the other proposal works. We don't want to impose anything on anyone. I understand you're trying to pin some kind of protection on private companies that had issued electronic signatures. That's what you mean. [[Heckling]] I tell you what will practically happen to every Bulgarian citizen who wants to use the electronic government that you want to introduce. You want to give him a plus electronic signature and electronic identification. We want this thing to be in one place. And whether it's private, whether it's a state firm, let's solve it: we're going to ban them, we're going to make this institution state, and it's going to issue electronic signatures. Will you support him? [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Will you support him? You won't support him. So don't pretend to be such great fighters for the state, because a larger parliamentary group to protect state property from the left [[shows with a hand to the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.]] , not yet in this parliament. God willing, God willing... [[Noise. Replies from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u203	Please, please! Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u204	Let's talk about this. About the Ministry of Interior and the S.E.L.D. to talk to each other from the other committee, the guillotines to talk. We're talking about electronic control. Once again, we don't oblige anyone, we don't blackmail anyone, we don't lobby for any firm, if that's what it takes. [[Heckling]] So once again, my request is to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u205	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. [[Relations from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Are there any other statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski to create a new § 80. [[Noise and lines.]] This is one proposal which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: 53, against 62, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski to create § 81 with its respective content, as presented to you by Mr. Letifov. Please vote on the proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: 53, against 65, abstentioned 19. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u206	The Commission proposes to establish paragraphs 78 and 79: ...... 78............................................................................ The Bulgarian Personal Documents Act makes the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18in all over the words "sacrifice for a qualifying' shall be replaced by "qualified certificate' and the words "sacrifice for the electronic document and the electronic signature' shall be replaced by the "Sacrifice for the electronic document and the electronic services'. 2. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 is amended as follows: ..21. A qualified electronic signature certificate is the concept within the meaning of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. 3. In the other texts of the Law, the words "sustainability of a qualifying' and "sacrifices of a qualifying' shall be replaced by "sacrifice of a claim for' and "sacrifice of a claim for' respectively. § 79. In the Law amending and supplementing the Election Code in § 145, para. 14, p. 31 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words........................................................................................................ is replaced by................................................................................................................................................ Proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Ishan Hakke. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 80: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 22, t. 1 concerning Art. 27, para. 1, t. 6 shall enter into force from 1 January 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u207	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for 78, 79 and 80, which are set up on a proposal from the Commission, with their respective content on its report. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. Paragraphs 78, 79 and 80 of the Commission report have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in our weekly work programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: We have resigned from the National Representative Diana Yordanova from today. I also propose that the item be examined immediately after its possible inclusion on the agenda, i.e. now, so that appropriate action can be taken to elect it as Vice-President of the Financial Supervision Commission. Please vote. They voted 126 MPs: 121, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Moving on to: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. There is an application from Diana Ivanova Yordanova, MP from the Second Election Region. "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I wish to terminate my credentials as a Member of the National Assembly with a decision of the National Assembly. Signature.......................................................................................................... In connection with which I propose the following official Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Aborts Diana Ivanova Yordanova's authority as MP from the Second Election Region of Burgas. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. We are now going to vote on the draft decision. Mrs. Lecheva didn't see her, but she was right: when the resignations were raining all Sunday, that's what you said today. [[Radio.]] 125 MPs voted: 122, none, abstention 3. The draft decision has been adopted. We should thank Mrs. Yordanova for her work in the National Assembly and wish her good luck at the new field! [[Applause from GERB.]] The next item in our program: FIRST VOICE OF LAWPROLECTION FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE No 754-01-50. Importers: People's Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. With the report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the President of the Commission will introduce us to the people representative Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u208	If I may, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I am making a proposal for the eligibility of Dimitar Genovski Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, acting director of the Department of Communications, and Jeanette Rogova Head of Department of the Department of Legal Affairs of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u209	Please vote on the procedure so made for admission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u210	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 20 September 2017, a Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50 was discussed, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Acting Director of the Department of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission, Mrs. Andreana Atanasova and Mrs. Irina Romanska, members of the Communications Regulation Commission, representatives of industry organizations, mobile operators and operators of electricity transmission and distribution networks. The bill was presented by the MP Atanas Stoyanov. The proposed bill is drawn up in connection with the introduction into national law of the provisions of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the cost of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and the update of regulations setting out the requirements for the deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjacent infrastructure. Mr. Atanasov pointed out that on 24 March 2016, the European Commission (EC) sent an official notification letter concerning non-compliance with the obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria to notify the national measures transposing Directive 2014/61/EU. On 29 September 2016, the Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion, which was imposed by continuing failure to comply with the obligations for the full transposition of the Directive. On 28 September 2016, the 40th National Assembly adopted a first vote on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure, despite which the failure to fully transpose the Directive continues and there is a real danger that the Commission will refer to the Court of Justice and request the imposition of significant financial sanctions for Bulgaria as of 15 August 2015. Mr. Stoyanov explained that the bill regulates the provision of rights and waitouts related to the construction of physical infrastructure and the deployment of networks. These norms are established on the basis of Chapter 17 of the Law on Electronic Communications, removing obsolete provisions, imperfections in the implementation process, while others are adapted and adapted to technological development and the reliefs that create the new special law. It is also envisaged that network operators will provide access to and shared use of existing infrastructures under previously announced conditions, including a price, by concluding a written contract with the electronic communications network operator. Next, the creation of a Single Information Point, whose functions will be performed by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, is regulated. The single information point is essential for achieving the objectives of the law because it is entrusted with functions to maintain a single database of up-to-date information to facilitate the coordination of joint construction and use of physical infrastructure, as well as the deployment of electronic communications networks. The bill provides for the Communications Regulation Commission to play the role of a body to resolve disputes related to providing access to existing infrastructure, including setting access prices, coordinating constructions, providing information on planned constructions, providing access to physical infrastructure in buildings and deploying electronic communications networks. After the presentation of the bill, a discussion was held. Mr. Genovski and Mr. Bozhkov presented the opinions in support of the Draft, respectively, of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and of the Communications Regulation Commission. Mr. Bozhkov pointed out specific texts to be refined. The representatives of branch organizations in the field of electronic communications expressed their satisfaction with the draft bill, which will ease and speed up the process of building high-speed electronic communications networks. The National Representative Dimitar Danchev noted that the bill does not solve serious problems related to cable electronic communications networks. People's representative Pavel Hristov expressed his support for the Bill, stressing that the deficiencies found can be removed in his second vote. On the basis of the debates held and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u212	♪ I can't believe on a bill on electronic communications networks and physical infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 14 September 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 14 July 2017. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Transport Information Technology and Communications Mr. Dimitar Genovski Deputy Minister, and Ms. Janeta Rogova Head of Department at the Department of Legal and Communications, Mrs. Stoyanka Ilova Department at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, representatives of the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators and other branch organizations. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Honest Veselinov. The proposed Bill introduces the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the costs of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and regulate the relations related to the deployment of electronic communications networks. The importer states that on 24 March 2016 the European Commission (EC) sent an official notification letter No C (2016) 2005/3 concerning infringement procedure 2016/0167 concerning non-compliance with the obligation of the Republic of Bulgaria to notify national measures transposing Directive 2014/61/EU. On 29 September 2016, the European Commission decided to send a reasoned opinion, which was imposed by the continuing failure to comply with the obligations for the full transposition of the Directive. Despite the adoption of the Draft Law at the first vote on 28 September 2016 by the Forty-third National Assembly, the failure to fully transpose the Directive continues and there is a real danger that the European Commission will refer to the EU Court of Justice and request the imposition of significant financial sanctions for Bulgaria as of 15 August 2015. It is envisaged to remove the requirements for detailed planning when the physical infrastructure route for these networks falls within the scope of an existing route and in the waitouts of pipelines, power lines, sewerage networks and railways or other existing networks. Electronic communications networks in buildings are also subject to the bill. In new buildings in which major repairs are to be carried out, the construction of physical infrastructure prepared for the deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks will be mandatory. An important moment for achieving the objectives of the Law has the introduction of a Single Information Point, whose functions will be performed by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. This item will maintain a single database of up-to-date information on existing and planned infrastructure, as well as related construction activities, projects, regulations, document templates, deadlines, etc. In this way, coordination of joint construction and use of physical infrastructure and the deployment of electronic communications networks should be facilitated. In the course of the discussion, a question was asked about the differences between this Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure and that adopted at the first vote in the Forty-third National Assembly. Mr. Veselinov assured the members of the Commission that the amendments form part of the then proposals between first and second readings and that its adoption is important for both business and consumer requirements. Branch organisations also voiced support for the Bill and proposed several substantial editorials of the texts. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u213	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u214	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. At its meeting held on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Dimitar Genovski Deputy Minister; by the Association for Electronic Communications On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev, who pointed out that the proposed bill introduced the requirements of Directive 2014/61/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the costs of deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks and to clarify the provisions relating to their deployment. The draft law regulates the deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of their adjacent infrastructure, providing for the possibility of providing access to them and their joint use. It comprehensively regulates relations relating to the construction of physical infrastructure, the deployment of networks, wait-to-rights and their compensation. In order to make more optimal use of existing infrastructure, network operators shall be obliged to provide access and to ensure the use of existing infrastructures under previously announced conditions governed by a written contract with the electronic communications network operator. The bill provides for the implementation of complex administrative services through the construction of a Single Information Point at the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and in the event of disputes relating to the provision of access to and joint use of existing physical infrastructure, it is arranged for them to refer to the Communications Regulation Commission, which has the authority's powers to resolve them. Mr. Genovski expressed his support for the Bill and added that the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications supports it fully. The draft was delivered an opinion by the Institute for Energy Management, expressing notes and considerations to specific texts. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Christian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Daniel Kirilov. In response to Mr. Philip Popov's question, Mr. Hristian Mitev pointed out that the provisions for providing access and sharing are summarised in two sections and aims to provide network operators with access to existing structures under pre-defined conditions. Mr. Christian Mitev and Mr. Kirilov added that the proposal is aimed at creating and providing a competitive environment especially in small settlements. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Issues with 12 votes for the Council, with no opposition to the Council and 6 votes, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Nikolov Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u215	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Here you are, Mrs. Avramova, to present the Energy Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u216	♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. At its regular meeting on 14 September 2017, the Energy Commission together with the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed and voted on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister, Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Acting Director of the Department of Communications and Mrs. Janeta Rogova. The reasons of the bill were presented by the MP Iskren Veselinov. The bill is required by Directive 2014/61 to reduce the costs of rapid deployment of electronic communications networks and accordingly interprets the requirements of the Directive in Bulgarian legislation. The main objective of the bill is to facilitate the construction of electronic communications networks, to share physical infrastructure where possible and to make the product offered by these companies cheaper. On behalf of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, supported the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. Its adoption is necessary to fulfil the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria to introduce the requirements of Directive 2014/61 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on measures to reduce the costs of deploying high-speed electronic communications networks. The bill constitutes a balanced decision taking into account the interests of stakeholders, network operators, state and municipal authorities and consumers. Its adoption is an important step towards increasing the efficiency of the use of existing infrastructure by sharing the efforts and costs of operators from different sectors. The use of already available infrastructure will reduce costs and obstacles to the successful implementation of new investment intentions, to ensure the rapid and broad deployment of high-speed electronic communications networks. After the presentation of the bill were presented the opinions on the draft by Mr. Slavcho Neykov, Chairman of the Board of the Institute of Energy Management, Mrs. Galya Marinova, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Association of Cable and Communication Operators, Mr. Nikolay Stefanov from EVN Bulgaria, and Mrs. Aneta Ivanova Executive Director of the Association for Electronic Communications. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of a vote, the Energy Committee with 12 votes for the Energy Committee, without the opposite, and 8 votes for the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure No 754-01-50, submitted by Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-11.u217	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Colleagues, the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will be put on hold tomorrow, because it is now 2:00 p.m. and there is a round table in the House of East, for which colleagues will be in a hurry. Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9:00 p.m. I'm adjourned today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
