ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly, the following additional item:? Projects of decisions on changes to permanent and temporary committees of the National Assembly. Importers are the People's Representative Volen Siderov, on 22 June 2017; People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, on 22 June 2017. We propose this to be the first point for today, 23 June 2017. Please vote. Vote 167 MPs: 161, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Message: The Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for the period from 22 June to 26 June 2017 in the area of Plovdiv airport a joint Bulgarian-American training will be held The notification was received on 21 June 2017, inc. No 7030917, and provided by the Defence Committee. Moving on to: PROJECTS FOR CHANGES IN CONFIGURATIONS OF STANDING AND TEMPORARY COMMITMENTS The first Project for a Decision is with the importer of the people representative Volen Siderov. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Economic Committee policy and tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Releases Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Are there any speeches? I won't. Please vote. Vote 163 MPs: 153 against 2, abstention 8. The draft decision has been adopted. The next Project for a Decision is also an importer of the people representative Volen Siderov.. Chairman of the parliamentary group of.... United Patriarchs....................................................................................... Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the The Committee on Agriculture and Food The National Assembly, on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov as a member of the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Are there any speeches? We are voting on your proposed draft decision. Vote 159 MPs: 153, none, abstention 6. The draft decision has been adopted. The last Project for a decision with importer People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov Chairman of the political party GERB parliamentary group. Project! DECISION to complete the composition of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens The National Assembly of art. 79, para. 1 and para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Georgi Tenev Stankov as a member of the Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We are voting on the draft decision presented to you. Vote 169 MPs: 164, none, abstention 5. The draft decision has been adopted. New questions for the period from 16 to 22 June 2017 including none. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov "to two questions from the MPs Plamen Manushev, Hristo Gajev, Emil Hristov and Konstantin Popov; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov of two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Turnovalyski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Regional Development, Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov, two questions from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. For the procedure please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure in view of yesterday's first reading bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, and I also suggest that my fellow Members support an extension of the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the maximum of the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made. Vote 154 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The first question of today's parliamentary control is to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov and he is asked by the MP Vasil Antonov on the restoration of the Higher Air School in Lower Metropolitan. Here you are, Mr. Antonov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u4	Dear Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence! The main priority in the program of the new government in the part of the Bulgarian Army is to be a reliable guarantee for the security of the country with the accelerated development of the armed forces, as well as through modernization, re-arming and training of the Bulgarian Army. As an MP from Pleven, you have always stated your concern for the future of the Faculty of Aviation and the academic aviation group Georghi Benkovski. Today again I would like to draw your attention to the question that I have repeatedly put to your predecessors in recent years. In view of the growing needs and requirements of the modern environment for the preparation of aviation personnel, a new more effective training model is needed. The fact is that in Lower Metropolitan there are all the necessary conditions for a higher education institution: base, desire for training and habilitated teachers. In this regard, it is my question to you: what concrete action will you take to restore the Higher Military School in Lower Metropolitan? Thank you, I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Antonov, you're right! This issue has been discussed for a long time and it is an issue that excites the whole public in the Pleven region and also in the Bulgarian aviators. This is a question which all MPs from the Pleven region have repeatedly put at various forums, including by asking in the National Assembly. From this point of view, I'm going to report to you how things are at the moment. Major General Tsanko Stojkov, Commander of the Air Force, has sent to the Ministry of Defence a report note with registration No 22-24-20 from 21 March 2017, with a Project for the opening of the Higher Air School in the town of Dolna Metropolitan to the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency and prepared by the Command of the Air Force. According to the positive resolution of the Deputy Prime Minister of Home Affairs and Minister of Defence The Project for the opening of the Higher Air School was sent on the basis of art. 26, t. 15 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 15, para. 1, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 10, para. 2 et c. 1 of the Higher Education Act to the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, and to the Minister of Education and Science with a request for an opinion to the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency for the launch of an evaluation procedure for the Project. The National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency received a reply that the submitted documentation does not meet the requirements of the provisions of art. Article 15 81, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on Higher Education, and Art. 26, t. 15 of the Defense and Armed Forces Act. Mr. Antonov, I inform you that the Ministry of Defence is sticking to the implementation of the Defence Capacity Development Programme of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria 2020. According to the same military education system, it is developing in accordance with national and European legislation and NATO directives to organise and conduct individual training of the personnel of the armed forces. The military-education system is oriented towards the construction of modern professional skills and to leadership qualities and abilities for taking responsible and independent decisions. It is necessary to review the structure of the military education system by looking for mechanisms to assess educational capabilities and projects for their development, as well as the possibility of acquiring complex aviation education in the field of air force, civil aviation and other civil specialities. That is, the question remains open and not only the desire of the Air Force military, but also the desire of the Ministry of Defence's leadership is to find a positive answer in the direction of the question that you are asking. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go, Mr. Antonov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u8	Mr. President of the National Assembly, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Karakachanov, unfortunately, your answer is disappointing. There is no difference from the answer to your predecessor's question, and that is what you brought us into procedures today, which I understand that patriotism is a concept that has soil in Bulgaria, but until we enter the government. When we get into the station, and then... [[Noise, lines, laughter from GERB.]] Thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u9	Please. Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u10	... We can't lock this matter up and hide it and sweep it away like this in the procedures. Today we also have and voted on the first point of teaching, we have 80 planes in the country that are exercising. How many of these planes are Bulgarian? And now that we're starting a procedure, we've bought helicopters, military equipment, and at the same time we're not solving the pilot issue, the pilot training and the maintenance footage. When are we gonna buy them? Are they in these plans accounts that you're putting them in in the future, or are you underestimating the training of our army at this time? Once again, I suggest that you reconsider this issue and not enter into the procedure, but work on a procedure that we should bring to a successful conclusion. There are still habilitated professors, there's still technique. Now we buy airplanes that can also buy trenchers to allow us to develop the subject to the fullest extent possible. Let's have a decent army and a decent education and prepare our staff! I'm really counting on your patriotism, on your options. I consider and continue to believe that you are one of the people who can bring this matter to an end.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u11	Thank you, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u12	Let us not forget that the first aircraft used for military bombings are from the Bulgarian Air Force. Now we put the cross, and that's exactly what we're doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u13	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u14	Who writes this shit?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u15	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Antonov! Unfortunately, we're not the first to use the plane as a means of battle. The Italians did it half a year before us in 1911 in the Italo-Turkish War, and we used it in the Balkan War. In terms of patriotism. Please, patriotism is not a matter of declarations when you are in opposition or when you are in power! Patriotism is a matter of character and belief. Everyone shows it, and everyone should show it. I've said this many times in this room: we should all be patriots, not just play on these topics! You're the one who's putting the issue of air-deleting. There's no such thing! Not only does no one intend to cancel aviation, but as you can see, the programme of the ruling majority has very ambitiously put the issues of modernization and re-arming of our armed forces. Yesterday I submitted to the Council of Ministers a proposal to include a third project, which will go along with the first two again through the plenary room of the National Assembly. There are very clearly described things: aviation, the Navy, buying or building a new armored machine for our armed forces. I am fully aware of what you are putting in place and have spoken to you and many other people repeatedly. Do you think that with colleagues from GERB, half of which are former officers of operation precisely from aviation, we are not talking about this issue?! The truth is that in this state of the armed forces I am talking specifically about the aviation department fulfilling its duties. However, it is precisely in view of the modernisation of the Bulgarian armed forces that needs to be done. However, there are legal requirements that you refer to as the procedure. In a rule of law, things move according to the laws in force. My appeal to you is: let us look for some consolidation on this issue, not, how can I say, cheap political dividends. Believe me, this is not about ruling or opposition. This issue has been repeatedly posed by colleagues from GERB and by the Patriotic Front and other parliamentary groups. One of the first tasks that I have taken up is precisely the consideration of this issue. It is yet to be resolved, but it has objective conditions and opportunities. With ten people in combat, leaving class at the moment, excuse me, what university are we talking about right now? We need to think about what to change and how to change, because ten people is not a university! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u17	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The second question is from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov on planning and conducting training and preparation of reserves from the Ministry of Defence. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! My question is provoked from the point of view of the exported data in the press and social networks with information about the military training of Bulgarian citizens, as well as the proposed amendments to the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. In recent years, the Bulgarian army has been worrying about the lack of personnel, as well as the serious ageing of the resources of reserves needed to complete the wartime formations. This issue worries us all and we know that the Ministry of Defense is working to improve the state of completion. I am aware that on the basis of art. Art. 57, Art. Art. 58, Art. 59 of the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria The Ministry of Defence plans and conducts courses with Bulgarian citizens willing to receive military training. I'm just going to quote some of the texts of the three articles. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 it is said that: To civil universities, military academies and higher military schools for the students in them are revealed courses of initial and/or special military training by the Minister of Defence, agreed with the relevant. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58 The content of the preparation shall be regulated as well as the organisation of the training preparation of these personnel, including the provision of preparation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u19	Ten seconds to go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u20	My questions in this regard are: on what basis is the training planned? How many people have been trained so far? Where and what is the military training they received? What are the funds they have spent? Do you believe that the military training carried out in the Single Training Centre of the Bulgarian Army contributes to improving the assembly of the peaceful composition of the Bulgarian army and the reserve of the armed forces? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Tsonkov! According to the amendments to the Law on the Reserve of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria of 27 December 2016 on the grounds of Articles 57, 58 and 59, which you listed, the categories of Bulgarian citizens who can undergo military training are: "1." students in higher military schools and civil universities for training in initial and special military training; 2. students in the higher military schools for training acquiring a qualified officer from the reserve; 3. graduates of higher schools and completed military training to acquire a qualified officer from the reserve wishing to receive initial and/or special military training. Bulgarian citizens are assigned a military title to the military training and are included in the military report. These citizens are reserved and can be given a mobilization assignment for wartime formations. The Bulgarian citizens who completed the initial military training, the special military training in the period 2014 - 2016 were 649 people, prepared at the National Military University of Vasil Levski and at the Higher Naval School of Nikola Ionkov Vaptsarov and the Single Centre for Initial Military Training. The funds spent for this purpose, since the written question you asked was one, amount to BGN 219 727. Military service and service competitions in the voluntary reserve are held in military formations. Of the students who have completed courses in initial and/or special military training, seven have received mobilization assignment in the wartime formations. That's 1%. From Bulgarian citizens who have completed initial military training under art. 59, four have received mobilization assignment in wartime formations. Bulgarian citizens admitted to service in the armed forces undergo initial military training at the training centers of the types of armed forces. Special military training shall be carried out after appointment of first position in the specialized training centres of the types of armed forces. The establishment of a Single National Training Centre is envisaged to conduct the preparation of Articles 57, 58 and 59 of the Bulgarian Armed Forces Reserve Act. Military training graduates have the advantage of applying to serve in the voluntary army. I believe that the preparation carried out so far is insufficient mainly due to the lack of funding. Of the 10 million each year required, the total amount of EUR 12 million. lv. are set aside, as I pointed out, these BGN 219 727. The preparation of Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the homeland on a voluntary basis and, in my opinion, the return of the military service are the only possible ways to improve the assembly with reserves under the current regulations. To improve the preparation of Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the Homeland and the assembly of military and wartime formations with reserves and reserve Ministry of Defence has taken the following steps: First, a draft decree of the Council of Ministers was drawn up to amend and supplement the Rules for Implementation of the Reserve Act. A working group was established for the preparation of a draft regulation for the preparation of Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the Fatherland. There is a working group to develop a vision for military training and preparation of Bulgarian citizens for the protection of the country. The training of Bulgarian citizens to protect the country is a matter of national importance. It can be resolved.. you ask the question: how.. with adequate payment, of course, and providing incentives to the people who voluntarily took the commitment to the defence of the country. In conclusion, Mr. Tsonkov, a consensus must be reached here, in the Chamber of the National Assembly, between all responsible Bulgarian political formations. As I have already pointed out several times, the problem of security and protection of Bulgaria is a problem which concerns all of us, as Bulgarian citizens and as people responsible to solve the problems, in the particular case before the security and armed forces of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Tsonkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'm glad you're working towards solving these problems. I agree with you that there should be consensus on security and defence issues because they concern the state, the Bulgarian society and guarantee the sovereignty, independence, the integrity of the Bulgarian state, the functioning of the state. However, I would like to mark three issues that I think you should consider. The first course by passing the start and after one year of specialized military training of citizens I think it is not effective because they will not appear or appear all the second year for training under the special training programme. That leaves them without an acquired military-accounting specialty. Planning training in military specialties is also not in line with the needs of the Bulgarian Army. For example, the military training of topographers in Shumen "in the reserve now has a large surplus of them, and the preparation continues. Or we could give an example of the NSA climbers, and the only ones that are needed are in Smolyan. And thirdly, I think it is important to note that the graduates of military training are being assigned to the reserve, but their preparation is not being taken into account and is therefore not in line with the mobilisation needs of the Bulgarian Army. And one more thing about...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u25	You're running out of time for ten seconds.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u26	...the effectiveness of planning and training of reservers. At the moment, as far as I know, 480 have been assigned to the voluntary reserve. They get an annual salary, but they don't really call themselves even once a year to earn it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u28	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. All such issues, which concern the state of the army and security themes, are a useful debate in our society. Thank you for your question. The notes you have made specifically regarding the acquisition of certain specialties have their reasons and will be taken into account. Thank you. Have a good job!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u29	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev regarding the restoration of the military service. Mr. Kutev, you're welcome to develop the question. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I'm going to start by asking myself that I'm not the most avid supporter of military service. I'd even say the opposite I have concerns whenever 19-year-olds fall into the hands of machine guns with bullets. I have personally seen in my ministry that this could lead to tragic consequences. So this isn't my favorite way of defending myself. I will start by asking that in the Programme of the United Patriarchs it was very clearly written: The restoration of military service and labour forces as a place for acquisition of a profession, responsibility and empathy to the Bulgarian society. This is part of your Programme. Instant restoration of missile bases in southern Bulgaria and removal of all Bulgarian troops from foreign countries. The last sentence will be subject to other questions probably, but from the first one for recovery, there is no escape. I agree that then already in the program which you do.. The Patriots and GERB together, does not mention anything about the recruitment service. In Section VII, point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 of it is written only that there will be work to introduce military training in school and increase opportunities for voluntary military service. It does not indicate the development of projects related to the military service. It is clear to me that, in fact, from your Programme to the GERB Programme, there is obviously a discrepancy with regard to the recruitment of military service. It's probably explainable in some way. After all, when you join a coalition, you compromise. For some time now, I have been very keen to highlight these compromises, because they are obviously being made on both sides. Until now, we have dealt with the compromises that GERB has made by putting some people on your lists - we are now dealing with the compromises that you make in order to be in power. Despite these compromises and the fact that you have stepped down from your election platform with which your people have chosen you, you are still saying that you are a supporter of the military service and do not intend to change your conviction. It is necessary for the Bulgarian youth to be prepared and brought up in a spirit of patriotism and willingness to defend the Fatherland. I mean, obviously you didn't give up the military service, all the more so, we all know that you, in the last term, submitted a draft bill on the military service, which has a pretty solid motive. Among them are: increasing the defence capacity of the country; social integration of young people from different property, ethnic, religious and cultural groups of society; improving the interaction between institutions for sharing responsibility; participation of citizens in the implementation of democratic control of the armed forces and so on. The motives are quite extensive. They're signed by you, first of all, along with a dozen other colleagues of yours. For this is my question: what will be the policy of the government in relation to the recruitment of military service? Is there actually going to be a set military service? As Patriot and as a person who submitted this Bill less than a year ago, last July the Bill was submitted: what will happen to the military service and what are your intentions as Deputy Prime Minister on this issue?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Kutev, I know that you are not a supporter of the military service as well as your entire parliamentary group. Now let's not talk about compromises. I understand you talking about compromises that have been achieved between the Patriots and GERB, but you understand that compromises are necessary. You and your wife must compromise more often than we do politically, and that's normal when you have to work with someone, you take their views into account, and they respect yours. I understand to talk about the compromises that we have made if you, twice ruling with the DPS, did not make any compromises and did not. So let's not speculate on the topics and let's talk essentially and specifically. By the way, you're absolutely right about me and my colleagues from the Patriotic Front, we're importers of the Military Service Act. And now maybe you wouldn't have to ask this question and ask me if we have given up on our ideas, no, we have not, if in the past the BSP colleagues in the Commission and in the plenary had supported it. But you didn't support him. The motives I set out then are motives that I can repeat to you now. A moment ago, your colleague asked me the question about the non-completion, more precisely, there is such a question of it further. Yes, it is. I continue to believe that we made a terrible mistake 2007, when, by changing the Constitution, and not forgetting to mention, it was during the three coalition, when BSP was a leading political force together with the DPS, I stress, then the Constitution changed without a normal debate in society, despite the opinion of the professional military, who thought that we should not rush to cancel the selection military service, but we should look for a mixed one. To introduce the professional principle, but to maintain the set military service as a form of training for young people. Then you did it in haste. Last year in Parliament, you didn't support him. I'll tell you, I was surprised by a colleague of yours who was a professional military officer, Colonel. He voted against and spoke as if he were speaking. Come on, I won't mention military from a neighbouring country that has no interest in us having an army. The colleagues from GERB then voted abstinence and stressed something important: the issue must develop, we will probably get there, but we are not ready with the specific dimensions, estimates and so on. Don't try to create this unnecessary confrontation that there isn't! If you want this, you very rightly noted it, in the program we have noted: military training in schools. Why? Now there are five hours of military training, which military training is one textbook with five jerseys absolutely theoretical. We believe that the working group that works very closely with the Defence Committee, including your colleagues from the Defence Committee, we believe that these hours should be increased. Whether 15, whether or not 20 is a matter of conversation with the Ministry of Education and Science to see what it is possible to fit into the curriculum. But there, apart from the story of the glory of the Bulgarian army, the lessons about the glory of the Bulgarian army, should be studied specific things, including how to handle weapons. There is an opportunity through secured similar means.. and you, and I have studied it in school, we know how it was, through practical knowledge and skills how to react in a military situation, how to provide first aid, how to react to terrorist acts and so on and so forth. Personally, I continue to believe that through such military training in schools, which should also have its practical dimension, the children should touch even at least visually with the army and the worthy service of the Bulgarian servicemen, this would spark interest in some of these people. Then we proceed to other issues on which our colleagues from GERB have absolute consensus. The question of voluntary principle. The voluntary principle, its introduction, that is, those young Bulgarian citizens young people and girls who wish to volunteer and serve in the ranks of the Bulgarian army in order to acquire knowledge and skills, titles to receive and so on, so that we can prepare the same reserve that your colleague has just asked me about. That would be extremely helpful. The subject of pre-election military service is not closed. It is not closed in our majority in Parliament, because this topic is being imposed by itself, observing the events around Bulgaria, especially by observing the practice of other European countries. I'm sure we don't have to drink the Black Sea to find out that its water is salty. I will only quote where the military service currently exists: in countries such as Sweden, Austria, Switzerland, Denmark, Norway, Estonia, Finland. By the way, some of these countries... [[Heckling]] Greece and Turkey, of course. Some of these countries canceled the military service, then restored it. The last country to restore its recruitment service is Sweden. A country that, as you can see, lives in a much more secure region. Nobody's given up! This is not a topic that can create a problem in our coalition relations. On the contrary, this is a topic that will continue to be discussed. In the program it is written: "Training in schools, the voluntary principle and the conversation about the military service remains to be conducted in the course of our mutual cooperation. " Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u33	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for up to two supplementary questions within two minutes in total.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Karakachanov! I'm not talking about compromises for a reason and, please, don't involve my wife, at least for the simple reason that I'm divorced by 15 years in order not to compromise, which, translated to your coalition, you can make your own conclusions, what you could do if you decide. Therefore, personal life and this work do not connect unless we decide because it always leads to bad consequences. From what you've told me right now, I understand that you haven't given up on military service, but you'll introduce it another time. How do you explain it to your constituents exactly? It's your problem. However, the other thing that impressed me in your response is that obviously military training in schools is somehow compared to your military service. In my opinion, they are absolutely incomparable, and they cannot be comparable, you cannot measure one with the other, and by introducing training into schools in any way to get out of your responsibility for the recruitment of military service. You're Deputy Prime Minister and Secretary of Defense. If anyone's ever going to introduce the military service, it's obviously you. I mean, at least the next few years, while you're in power, unless you're thinking of introducing it when you fall out of power, which means that I have a few specific questions for you: how many recruits should there be in this optional military service, because you've put in a bill, you should know? On the bright side, it's the state calling it. How many recruits does this staff have to include? How many months is the service? I saw that you wrote six months, and here and there is 12 for some, and for other alternates and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u35	You're entitled to Two questions only.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u36	No, there's a lot more of them, and he has to choose both.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u37	I'm sorry. Rules are up to two questions in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u38	It doesn't matter. Let him choose both. So, is there a weapon available? Is there any weapon that they can handle in terms of automatics, rifles, thongs, what are we gonna arm these people with? Do we, do we not, is it planned? What base is needed? Is the army base currently in line with the possibilities, like 300, 500 grand, do I know how much you've got in mind? Is this base ready? And lastly, even I have one supplementary question because I don't believe you're going to answer the others, how much is this whole thing worth to the state, and where are you going to get the money?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You can choose two questions from all of them, and you can answer all of them. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm asking for order in this room. Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kutev! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u41	Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u42	I'm sorry if I offended you. I didn't know you were divorced for 15 years so you wouldn't compromise. That shows you as a man of character. But do not expect us to divorce our colleagues because of a subject on which there are actually no problems and no one has to compromise. I stressed: not to replace military service with military training in schools, but to replace military training in school to be part of the set of titles and skills that young people in Bulgaria can obtain in terms of their constitutional obligation. The protection of the Fatherland is a matter of the debt of every Bulgarian citizen. This is the duty of every Bulgarian citizen! Why do you have to do this kind of military service? Because if something happens tomorrow and we have to mobilize people at an age capable of defending the Fatherland, they will be sent as a piece of smoke without simple preparation. I'm answering your question. We're not arming them with a thong. There is enough personal weaponry and other equipment to be trained and armed, despite all attempts to sell this thing over the years. You're asking me the question: where are we going to put them? Well, they have a place to stay. And some of the military units that exist can be built or rebuilt. According to calculations then, which were made at the Ministry of Defence by 2016, if memory serves, it would cost no more than 100 million. lv. Apropo during your management one of the ministers had purchased a factory to build units or similar bases. So don't worry, we have a place to put them. [[Replications from the National Representative Anton Kutev: "From NDSV! "]] The question is... It doesn't matter. You were together. The question is whether we will proceed to this move, not how much it will cost or where we will accommodate them. After much more... I have listed to you countries that have recovered or have not terminated the recruitment service, some of which are not richer than us, since they have the opportunity to do so, we should also do so. The theme with the price in my opinion is not paramount because the existence of Bulgaria, the security and life of Bulgarian citizens cannot be evaluated in thousands or hundreds or in millions of leva. They are a matter of obligation of the state Bulgaria and its institutions. That's why we're having this debate. How many people? In order to clarify, there is no doubt that there is no compromise to be made. We have wagered military training in the first step schools, where young people get some knowledge on the subject. Secondly, the introduction of the voluntary principle. This is the mid-term period for those young people who, for patriotic, family or other reasons, wish to serve, and believe me, there are enough, they can do it. They'll be able to do it! However, this requires legal changes which are actually being prepared in this working group. And thirdly, I am convinced that we will get to this year, if not next year, to develop an option to return to military service. Unless, of course, in the world things change in the context that we all desire and there is that eternal peace and order that, from the time of Adam and Eve, everyone wishes. Regarding: how many will it be? Well, about 50,000 are the people who age a year. Half of them are girls. Of the other about 30% are people who physically or healthy do not respond. If we divide the ministry, what I had proposed in a previous law was six months. Just from colleagues from GERB there was a proposal that six months is small and should be nine months. It's a debate issue. For example, one Sweden, which has since January 1st returned to military service...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u43	You're one minute behind schedule, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u44	Thank you. ...has foreseen three options: six, nine or 12 months, according to where you serve, what kind of armed forces you serve and what skills you must learn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Kutev, you have two minutes to express your attitude on the answers of Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, from what you've told me, I've learned that someday after a year or two, perhaps you'll return to the subject of military recruitment. However, it is clear that you promised it to your voters not some day but when you come. You say: "There is a debate going on." I want to tell you that you are Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense. Debat can lead us from the opposition. You're there to rule, not to debate. Debates are waged before you take power. You are a member of Borisov's third government. The previous two didn't pass their term. That is, the logic to expect that you will have four years to realize this day, where you will do military service, to know that it will not be. At least historically, you have no reason to believe that. If you think someday you'll do it, know it won't happen someday. At this stage, now that you are a minister, the only thing I see is that you have actually betrayed your constituents by promising them one thing and are currently doing another. Moreover, in these elections you were of opposition power, you were the ones who worked against the status quo, respectively against GERB. Now all of a sudden you betrayed them, not to reunite with another such force, but to reunite with your opponent, whom your constituents voted against. Because they voted against GERB when they voted for you. And now you're telling me, are we going to move on to this, how much is it going to cost? You're asking me these questions! [[Replications of Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.]] Mr. Karakachanov, now, I just heard it from you. But I have to ask the questions, and you have to answer them. You're Deputy Prime Minister, standing out of the stands and asking me, how much will it cost and will we proceed to this activity?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u47	When did I ask you? I answered you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u48	Just now. Listen to your tape! That was your statement just now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u49	Please, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u50	And did you answer? [[Replicates from Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.]] Who did you answer?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u51	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u52	When will we proceed to military service and how much will it cost? Excuse me, if your answer is what you gave that would be worth 100 million, I apologize, it corresponds exactly to what you wrote in the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u53	Mr. Kutev, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u54	I'm just finishing up, Mr. Glauchev. The bill says that the professional army would be worth 1200, and the set would be 400. I'm sorry, that's total Bolshevism! You can't betray your constituents that way without being punished for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. The next question is from the MP Alexander Simov on the status of an employee of the Ministry of Defence. You have the floor, Mr. Simov, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, as early as the end of 2014, it became clear that the official from the Ministry of Defence Mr. Ivo Antonov was then proposed as Deputy Minister of Defence, there are photos of which he made a Hitlerist greeting, as well as numerous Facebook events in support of Nazism and Adolf Hitler. This year the same photos came out again and the public was astonished to learn that Antonov is still working at the Ministry of Defense. Then, before the media, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov himself said that he would be fired by the Ministry. Moreover, colleagues from GERB rediscovered the anti-Nazi wave and came out with very sharp declarations concerning Plamen Uzunov. I mean, we accept that we have a powerful impatience for all kinds of antinazism. Some time ago, however, the media exploded that Antonov was not only not fired, but he even received the cabinet of the first Deputy Minister of War "something unprecedented in the history of the transition. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: is Ivo Antonov really still an employee of the Ministry of Defence? What are your motives for his detention? Don't you encourage the expression of extremist views in your entrusted institution? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Simov! I'll start with a sentence to Mr. Kutev, who read his on-call question, saw his aunt on TV or there someone else and left.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u59	Please, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u60	Unlike you, gentlemen of the BSP, I do not change my political beliefs and make no turn in politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u61	I'm asking for an answer to Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u62	What I have advocated with regard to military service, I will stand for it. I expect you to back us up when we bring the law back. Thank you. About Mr. Simov, I'm about to begin. During the mandate of the caretaker government by order of the Minister of Defence Stefan Yanev I will not read you the numbers, but it is from 6 March 2017, is announced a competition for the position of the Director of the Social Policy Directorate. After the competition and on the basis of art. 10, para. 4 of the Law on Civil Service, Mr. Ivo Antonov was appointed to the position of Director of the Social Policy Directorate. The order is also from Minister Yanev. My motives for continuing to be an employee of my subordinate office are as follows. Mr. Ivo Antonov has been an employee of the Ministry of Defense for 18 years. That means he's passed at least two or three BSP governments. During this period, he went down the ladder of master development by senior expert, chief expert, head of department and director of directorate. According to the Director's report carried out in the Directorate of Human Resources Management, there have been no penalties imposed for the period of those 18 years from 1 September 1999, when it entered, to this day. Its latest annual assessment of January 2017 is an exceptional performance. For an excellent performance of his duties, he has been awarded a Awarded Sign for faithful service under the flags and a Stick-Knife. Ivo Antonov holds an up-to-date clearance for access to classified information by the State Agency of National Security. Special investigation has been carried out for the person concerned on the basis of a request for access to classified information from July 2016. The person holds a certificate from the State Commission for Security of Information. Next, from a legal point of view, according to the provision of art. 94, para. 1 of the Law on the Civil Service Officer, the criminal penalties shall be imposed no later than two months from the detection of the infringement and no later than one year after its execution. In the light of the circumstances that an action took place 10 years ago and became publicly known in 2014, i.e. three years ago, the statutory time limits for imposing a disciplinary penalty on the employee expired. This means that if he is suspended, every Bulgarian court will bring him back again. There are still laws in Bulgaria. In this regard, the imposition of such a kind of punishment would be unlawful. Last but not least, Mr. Ivo Antonov in his activities, which he develops in social policy, has gained the trust of all military-patriotic organizations in Bulgaria, which, as you know, a small part of them sympathize with you as well. Sixteen military-patriotic alliances have been behind his work so far! There is no record of the employee expressing or expressing extremist views in my entrusted administration. In conclusion, I will tell you: I do not approve of any manifestations of such an ideology that you are talking about was national socialism, was communism and so on. We should not be making questions about such things because you have very actively started with the topic, looking for dirt on people connected and working in the composition of this government. But I didn't hear you say anything about Mr. President's advisor. I didn't hear you say anything special.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u63	Your time is up, Mr. Karakachanov. Thank you. Mr. Simov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u64	Mr. Karakachanov, I'm not happy with your answer. You are entangled like Betina Joteva in a morning block. [[Laughter at the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u65	Please, Mr. Simov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u66	A few things need to be said here. First of all, you didn't really answer the question. The fact that he has awards and the perfect behavior of an employee does not correspond in any way to the question I am asking you. And I ask you, did Ivo Antonov express Nazi views? If the two other cases are for Deputy Minister Plamen Tenev and for Plamen Uzunov, there are only photos, but with Ivo Antonov are specifically written opinions on Facebook, some of which I can quote, as there are screenshots such as: "Eh, if the winter of 1941 was not so cold and many other things. The guy wrote them a long time ago. Just because he's a great professional doesn't justify expressing such positions. And Goering was a good pilot, and Hitler probably had artistic talent, too, but that doesn't mean we accept their behavior. Finally, since this was involved, personally Boyko Borisov announced that he should be fired. I also call on you, I also call on colleagues from GERB to be consistent at least in this regard. The Prime Minister insisted that the Nazi be thrown out of the Ministry of Defense. You're telling us the opposite right now. And as for Plamen Uzunov, understand one thing. If GERB has been in charge of the President's Administration, then BSP does not allow such a thing. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u67	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Simov, I don't know how long you've remembered Betina Joteva and I don't know when she went wrong. I think I didn't get confused, and I read you very clearly and precisely the reference to the Mr. Ivo Antonov in question. I have explained to the Prime Minister what I now have to say to you from the stands of the National Assembly. The Prime Minister, as a law-abiding person in the state informed on this matter, has left the decision to be moved into the Ministry of Defense, for which I have the honour to answer. And I've given you the arguments. In terms of who wrote what on Facebook, I don't know if I should read one of your writings on Facebook. I'm a little uncomfortable. Shall I read it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u69	Please, Mr. Karakachanov! It's about...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u70	The question is this. It is not nice to talk about such things, about writings on Facebook people who cynically and disgustingly treated and treated the victims of the communist regime and their monuments. I won't mention what you were willing to do on this monument, because it's not morally just to read it! A man confessing such an ideology, defending such dark-bessed ideas of a structure that destroyed tens of thousands of people... By the way, the monument where you wanted to do something of your natural needs is my grandfather's name. [[Replicates in "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] I say to you, it's high time you stopped this demagogy! Because in one form or another, any person, whether from your government, whatever the government was, or from another government, in his life is possible in the form of a joke, as is the case with the Deputy Minister who went away, most likely the case with the President's adviser, or Ivo Antonov in the form of a joke, in the form of a delusion or whatever, to express something. Don't speculate on such things. A man like Ivo Antonov or a man like the president's advisor who has experience in the police, or the man who left as Deputy Minister, these are people who built authority and name based on their professionalism. It's not normal for political reasons for someone here to get up and huff them, looking for simple political dividends. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u71	The weather, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u72	That's why I told you you didn't say anything about the president's advisor. Not that I want him to go. It's just a similar case. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u73	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The next question is from the MPs Konstantin Popov, Plamen Nunev, Vladimir Toshev, Emil Hristov and Zapriyan Yankov about the investment project of Land Forces. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u74	If you don't mind, let's get back to military business. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, in 2016, the National Assembly approved two projects for investment expenditure. The acquisition of a new type of combat plane and the acquisition of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the Navy. Recently, you announced that modernization projects should move in parallel and be implemented according to the possibilities and priorities, including the Project for acquiring and maintaining basic fighting technique for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of a mechanized brigade. For the time being, two companies have made public their intention to participate in a future similar procurement. Over the past few months, one of them has presented the capabilities of its war machine to interested institutions and media, even organised field trials. In this regard, my question to you is: During the caretaker government under the Project for the acquisition and maintenance of basic fighting equipment for the construction of battalion battle groups from the composition of a mechanized Land Forces Brigade, have requests for information to companies been sent, where is their headquarters, what is the effect of these actions on the deadlines for receipt of the answers and generally for the implementation of the Project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Come in for an answer, Prime Minister, within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, in the implementation of the decisions of the Defence Council on 7 December 2016, announced by order of 9 December 2016, the document By the way, you said that one of the companies, but actually two of the companies, I'm not going to tell them their names, they've been making demonstrations over the last five or six months. At the end of January 2017, at the request of the company Kraus Mafay Wegman GIMBiHa and on the basis of a positive resolution of the Minister of Defence, the request for information was sent to it as well. All materials related to the response to the request for information so far, together with the interim report-analysis, have been sent for storage in the Land Forces Command. At a meeting of the Defence Council held on 18 April 2017, during the caretaker government, it was decided to send the document to other manufacturers, as follows: Ottocar - Turkey, EfNES, General Dynamics, VZet Em, Renault Difens, Systems Huglands, Pleasant Israel Difens. The request for information was sent by e-mail by the working team appointed by order of the Minister of Defence on 25 August 2016, as amended by an order for the working team on 15 March 2017 in the unit's management of the team's analysis of options for the implementation of the investment project. The deadline for replying to the information request to the above-mentioned additional producers is 28 July 2017. If additional information is needed, the working team has been agreed to send supplementary questions to all companies to whom the information request has been sent. It was only subsequently that a final report-analysis of the possible options for the implementation of the project should have been drawn up. In conclusion, I assure you that the Department of Defense is doing everything necessary to move the Land Machine Project. Yesterday, a proposal was submitted to the Council of Ministers, in which the project is related to the previous two... for the Navy and for the Aviation. It should be publicly discussed within two weeks, to be voted on by the Council of Ministers, to enter the Defence Committee and to be available to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u78	Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, it is argued that the technical requirements for the future supplier have undergone some changes compared to the original version. We worry because the continuous amendments to the technical requirements call into question not so much the competence of those making them as the correctness and seriousness of the party concerned. This also confuses potential participants as well as stakeholders in the process. We hope that there will be no more changes in the technical requirements and they will be as they are finally established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u80	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Hristov, your concerns are very reasonable. Because not only in respect of the armored machine, but absolutely in violation of the decision of the Council of Ministers was sent a letter regarding a company, I will not mention the name to be included in the project for multifunctional patrol ships. So this practice at the time of the caretaker government creates the doubts that you very clearly express. I can assure you that I have the intention, in addition to working groups, to discuss the issue very closely in the Defence Committee, to be a clear, transparent process, such as the vision we have with our colleagues from the Defence Committee, I suppose with all MPs that the projects for modernization of the Bulgarian army should be looking for maximum inclusion of opportunities for the Bulgarian economy to participate in the construction, maintenance and repair of these technical means, which we will acquire through the three projects the two patrol ships, aircraft, aircraft fighters for aviation, or the infantry machine. Active inclusion of the Bulgarian economy so that the money of the Bulgarian taxpayer can support the development of the Bulgarian economy, create jobs here and not somewhere outside. The process will be as transparent as possible. In the Defence Committee, these things will be discussed before being submitted to the National Assembly for voting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u81	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Before we go to the next question, please welcome our guests to the students and their leaders from the Professional High School of Peyo Yavorov. [[Applause.]] We move on to the next issue by the MPs: Konstantin Popov, Plamen Nunev, Vladimir Toshev, Emil Hristov and Zapriyan Yankov, about checking the preparation of technical specifications of the Institute of Defence Who's gonna ask the question? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs: On 21 April 2017, during the hearing in the National Assembly of the President of the caretaker government Mr. Ognian Gerdjikov said that at the Institute of Defence Professor Tsvetan Lazarov was released the Director and Deputy Director for proven violations in the preparation of technical specifications and tactical technical assignments of investment projects for fighting machines and land troops and for the multifunctional destroyer of the Air Force. Prior to that, on 5 April 2017, in a TV interview, the then Minister of Defence, Stefan Yanev also said that Mr. Tagarev was fired and in connection with the refusal to change the specification of the order for the supply of computers. In this regard, Mr. Minister, our question to you is: are there audit and other control checks carried out to confirm the existence of changes in the specification, tactical-technique the technical assignments of investment projects at the Institute of Defence, Professor Tsvetan Lazarov, cited as reasons for the dismissal of Professor Todor Tagarev from the post of Director of the Institute and if his violations have been proven is the prosecution informed and what are the results of this process? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u84	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Iankov, in response to your question, I inform you that by my order I have commissioned the Chief Inspector of the Ministry of Defence to carry out an inspection of the case. It is apparent from the results of the inspection of the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Defence that no infringements were detected when the Director and Deputy Director of the Institute were released. Motives and facts about liberation are not specified. I repeat the reasons for their liberation are not stated, therefore, the statements quoted by you by the former minister or the former prime minister do not correspond to reality. By my other order, I ordered the Directorate of Internal Audit of the Ministry of Defence to carry out a check on the claims made concerning changes in technical specifications and technical tasks of investment projects. Upon completion of the audit check, on 4 July 2017, I will also be able to answer the question regarding the response from the audit carried out concerning the existence of infringements. At the moment, from the checks I have carried out with regard to Mr. Tagarev, I say so far, as the audit report is not yet ready but what the Inspectorate has done with regard to Mr. Tagarev, the accusations that were, or the doubts that have been cast on him by these public events, which you are quoting are unfounded. Regarding the question you're asking me as a whole. During the caretaker government in the Ministry of Defence, it was arranged in one way that cannot be called professional in many ways. The specific case is one of the cases of replacement of personnel, release, appointment at the last minute of people. So you rightly ask this question. I answer to you so far by the Inspectorate these things which have been announced have not been confirmed, and in the liberation orders of Mr. Tagarev and his deputy there are no grounds for liberation, therefore what is said publicly does not correspond to the truth. We will see the audit report and after 4 July 2017, I will also be able to inform you of its results.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a line, Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u86	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Karakachanov, thank you for the exact and comprehensive answer and we expect the answer to the audit itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u88	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u89	I won't. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Georgiev regarding the right of free access of citizens to the park territory of the Lozenets residence. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u90	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense! Dear colleagues, MPs, my question is related to the right of free access to the park of Lozenets Residence, as in 2010, was given to the park of Rakovski Military Academy. If I have to put a title to my question, it is: What do I mean? On 4 August 2015 as a municipal councillor with an initiative committee, together we launched a petition to open the park of Lozenets Residence. On the very same day I was invited by one of your predecessors, then Minister Nikolay Nenchev, in Borisov 2's office and I was told that the residence, that the park is in a secret zone, the site is secret and only the National Assembly can remove the object from this secret list. At the same time, on the website of the Executive Agency, the Military Clubs, which disposes of the site, there was a issued and published order with a price signature. [[Shows documents.]] I'll just quote that against BGN 14,400. You could rent the entire site for one day, including the park, and you could get over 500 people inside, so it turns out that in a secret facility, once you pay, you can use this territory. In this regard, I asked Minister Stefan Yanev another question and on 3 May, one day before you became Minister of Defence, I was answered that this order was revoked. In this regard, my question is: what is your opinion and when do you think that the park of the residence "Lozenets" will be open for free access to citizens in one of the most re-built areas in Sofia? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u91	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister for response, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u92	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Georgiev, you're right, secrecy has a price! There's always a price to secrecy! That's what I'm starting with. For the regulation. According to Ordinance, H-10/18.03.2011, the organization and activities of the military clubs and the representative sites of the Ministry of Defence in Lozenets Residence are organized and held representative events of the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army, as well as the reception of foreign delegations and guests. In the residence are also held protocol events by other departments, organizations, natural and legal persons. The same shall be carried out on request and at prices determined by the order of the Executive Director of the Military Clubs and military-retirement case. When organising these events, access to the park space, including the second and third floors of the central building, is strictly restricted. Currently, the Lozenets Residence has a written interest in upcoming commitments related to planned protocol events of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and so on until the end of 2017. Interest in such requests is also in connection with our upcoming presidency. Regarding the question raised by you: when will the status of citizens' right of access be changed to the territory of the Lozenets residence park inform you that in view of the status, exploitation and purpose of the same, the Ministry of Defence does not intend to give citizens access to its territory because of what you have started. The same doesn't have the status of park territory. I'm talking about the building, and these are about ten acres of area. It is well known that for the benefit of the citizens, access was granted to the park territory of the Military Academy, but there are no such topics that you opened. I don't want to go into the details of what and how precisely because of the secrecy that needs to be respected. Finally, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence is involved with the imperative obligation to protect the country's security and public order rather than landscaping activities or the opening of parks and gardens. Parks and gardens should be taken care of by the municipal administration. To your particular question: while I am a minister, I will not issue such an order for the simple reason that after all wishes are a good thing, but the security of the state is something more serious and more important and cannot be ignored by the desire of someone to enter and look at such objects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Karakachanov, I am not pleased with your answer. You said the subject was classified. You know that you, like your predecessors, get away with it, I can give you the order that's been claimed that a lot of people can get into a secret facility for a fee? It's amazing to me how in a secret facility, once you pay, you can get that number of people in? However, I would ask you, since there are a lot of complaints from those living around, that at Saturday and Sunday gatherings, when weddings were also being made, and this price signature was being used, most of the people resented the noise that was getting up late. We will continue to give you the signature of the present 150 signatures to insist that the territory of the park be opened. It's not about nine, ten acres, it's about 46 acres of park space, I say again, in one of the most over-developed areas in the capital. We don't want the park to be trampled and destroyed. It's about controlled access. I'm not happy with your answer. We continue our cause. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u96	Madam President, honourable Members, Mr. Georgiev! The causes are good and they must be pursued to the end. I agree with you, but I told you, as long as I'm a minister, that's not gonna happen. You're quoting events. That's right! These are state-level events - mainly ministries, prime minister, foreign delegations where there is control, there are guards and guests who come to these official business events do not have access to the entire space. You were a city councilman. I think the function of the municipal council is to take care of the non-rebuilding of the districts in Sofia, as is the area. "Lozenets." You should have thought about that when it was being built. To predict parks, gardens, not to build the green areas, and now to talk: because there are no green areas left, because we have rebuilt them, give now, open an object of the Ministry of Defense, to compensate that someone was making money at the expense of the green areas in Sofia Municipality, and open the military sites to make parks. I don't understand it that way. As you can see, my ancestors did the right thing. They have authorized the Park Space of the Academy "Georgi Sava Rakovski" to be used because there is no such problem as would arise from the uncontrolled access to this space, which is used for special needs by the Ministry of Defence. If you wish, please come to the Ministry of Defense, I will inform you more closely on this matter, as there are some things that can't and shouldn't be spoken so publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u97	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The next question is from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov on the implementation of the personnel policy and providing it with funds from the budget of the Ministry of Defence. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Personnel is the most important element of the capabilities of the armed forces. Military formations, fully assembled, with well-prepared and motivated personnel, are a guarantee of successful completion of the tasks assigned to them. Therefore, the policy of every leadership of the Ministry of Defence is aimed at attracting, preparing and holding personnel. However, as a result of wrong priorities and poor policy in relation to the military staff in the Bulgarian Army in 2016, it reached up to 20%, compared to the 2014 military in 2014 it was 9%. For this reason, in July 2016, the Ministry of Defence issued an order to the Minister of Defence declaring a plan with measures to overcome this incompetence. Regardless of the measures taken, the problem continues to deepen as the incompletion already reaches 22% of the state composition, and for some formations this figure is already above 50%. In addition, the completion of the voluntary reserve intended to complement the non-completion of personnel of military formations also faces serious difficulties and is currently only completed at 20%. Of the types of armed forces the most hit by a shortage of personnel are land troops that make the biggest contribution to NATO and European Union operations and missions, as well as border security operations. All of this, combined with poor working conditions and lack of supplies both for administrative work and for conducting a normal learning process, has led to the inability to perform in full the tasks of planning and carrying out operations on the three missions of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u99	It's time for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u100	Inefficiently some of the main tasks of military formations are also being carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u101	You're two minutes out. Ask your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u102	What's the Cadillac policy? What measures does the Ministry of Defence provide for to overcome the lack of personnel and to increase the motivation of the servicemen to complete the mission tasks? Are funds provided in the Ministry of Defence's budget?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u103	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Here you are, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u104	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tsonkov! The problem of the army's non-completion continues to deepen. This is a serious problem and it has not been a year, two, unfortunately, since we moved on to the professional army system without considering this question that everyone is commenting on and you are asking now. The total number of unattended posts among servicemen is about 5600 people and 2500 voluntary reservers. The total number of unoccupied posts in one armed unit is 8100 officers, sergeants, soldiers, and the trend of its increase remains. The importance of the issue had to be adopted at the end of 2016 to overcome the non-completion of personnel in the armed forces. It lays down internal and external measures to hold the tide of servicemen and to increase the motivation to carry out military service. Over the course of the plan, internal measures include: change in the way of pay for military work; improvement of working conditions and improvement of the quality of preparation; adaptation to the current needs of the conditions for admission and training of servicemen in higher military schools, extension of the powers of commanders for reassigning servicemen, improvement of the contractual process and so on. I won't list them, the plan's in place. Among the external measures are: updating the wage of the public sector servicemen, taking into account the specifics of the military profession; financing based on a timetable rather than on a list composition; providing additional funds to provide the servicemen with housing or rental funds, etc. According to the Ministry of Defence's plan for integrated development of the sector, it is necessary to increase the resources allocated to the individual state bodies and structures for the period 2018 First, the provision and appointment of 1300 people for 2018 and 800 persons per year by 2022 to reach the number of armed forces, as set out in Plan 2020; the provision of an increase in the base for determining the basic monthly wage of the servicemen for the lowest position; the provision of the compensation due to the servicemen in the event of military discharge. The problems we all know are the funding on a list, not on a state line, that is, the welded situation is preserved. The idea is to change that. You ask the question: is it intended? Yeah, but it's not scheduled for 2017. In relation to the conversations that are being held or, more precisely, the process of acquiring a new fighting technique, this is one of the questions that we have raised. I do not want to sound naked, so I am telling you that we are in the process of talking, discussing with the Defence Committee and the Ministry of Finance, because it is all finally about financial resources. The question is whether we will be able to reschedule these investment projects for a longer period to release and sufficient resources for additional motivation or for a decent reward is an open conversation that continues and do not doubt that not only I, as defence minister, but all my colleagues from the Defence Committee, no matter what political formation they are, are working very adequately and supporting such an initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. Here you are, Mr. Tsonkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am pleased that you understand the seriousness of the problem and the conversations we have had in the Defence Committee, you know that you have our understanding and we have consolidated on the idea that there should be an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence, of course, and of the Ministry of Interior. However, I can't be that optimistic because I'm going to give some facts. The problem has deepened since 2010. As much as they don't recognize it, during the time of the government of Borisov 1. What happened then? Decisions were taken that were unfounded for organizational changes, which caused a great uncertainty in the defence system. I would also like to say that at that time it was cut by about 400 million and the military budget. Last but not least, social rights were severely cut exactly 2010 and, as a result, only in 2012 were forced to leave 1270 servicemen, of which 22% subordinates and 18% majors. I think the facts speak enough. This personnel pogrom, unfortunately, continued during the second reign of Borisov. I doubt that the right appropriate decisions will be made, because there are still people in senior executive positions who have participated in previous governments, which does not give me much optimism that this issue will be resolved. And I'm just giving an example with a well-managed policy: 2013 There are only 36 people left for 14 months in 2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u107	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer. It's actually a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, if we have to go back to the mistakes that have been made, they are not only 2010, unfortunately started with the so-called "Riforma" in the army even after the changes, unfortunately. And as much as we go back and point out the mistakes of your governments, and you to ours, we won't solve the problem. I am not a pessimist like you, because I believe that the public is mature now, as well as the leader of your party changed her position a week ago that additional means of defence are needed after the Advisory Council stated the opposite that you are opposed to raising the means of defence, I think there is already consensus in Parliament and this issue can be discussed. That's what I said in view of being correct about the facts. Not a single party, or not a single government, has only made some mistakes in terms of defence. The situation is such that, on a global scale and in the regions around us, we should think of the Bulgarian army not as representatives of government or opposition, but as responsible Bulgarian politicians who think about the future of the country, which, despite all the vicisions of history, has survived for 1400 years here in this region. Our duty is to be as responsible as possible and I am glad that there are colleagues from the opposition like you who are concerned, asking such questions and I hope that together with your efforts we will find the right solutions for the future of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u109	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for answering the question and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions asked to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We begin by asking the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev, Georgi Gokov, about the policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the specific actions related to them. You have the floor, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Petkov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! With regard to the already becoming traditional protests of disabled people and the last one that took place very soon, we have submitted this question to you regarding the government's policies towards disabled people. Continuing protests clearly show that the problems of us disabled people, not only are not solved, but are deepening. As far as we know, you have made a meeting with the representatives of people with disabilities and you should have answers to the basic questions, and they concern the possibility of integration of people with disabilities and their support and not so much for increasing the funds as to regulating the activities of state institutions in their favour. In this respect, the plan for the integration of people with disabilities is important, which concerns the period 2015. The plan is largely formal and nothing seems to be being implemented at the moment. What is the coordinating unit that monitors its implementation and at what stage is it currently? Are the funds available to the State to implement the ratified UN Convention on Disabled People and, respectively, to ensure adequate integration of these people? Why hasn't the optional protocol to the Convention been ratified so far, and what further action should your ministry and the state take to put the Convention into action and therefore to adequately protect people with disabilities? Is it possible that the service of a personal assistant could be turned more for the benefit of disabled people and not so much for finding work for the assistants themselves? What measures has the Ministry taken to identify individual needs in the process of integration of disabled people, given that these people have various needs related not only to the personal assistant? Here we are talking about the need for employment, requalification, adequate assistance, refurbishing of cars and homes, rehabilitation, change in urban environment and mobility. Does the Ministry have plans and coordination with the Ministry of Finance to change the guaranteed minimum income, which for 11 years, as we all know, stands at 65 BGN.? On its basis are calculated all other social payments. Changing the guaranteed minimum income is key to all people with disabilities and is the basis for solving their problems. In the light of the above, please inform us of the policies that are being conducted to address the problems of people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u112	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Hristov, Dear Mr. Koutev, Dear Mr. Gokov! The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy conducts policies aimed at creating legal guarantees for non-discrimination of disabled people and providing their support. Under the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, they are entitled to socio-economic protection. The Rules for its implementation shall specify how it is to be implemented. I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Law, distribution by group is according to the individual needs of disabled people, according to the degree of reduced performance or the type and extent of damage. People with permanent disabilities are entitled to a monthly supplement for social integration, targeted aid and an blame sticker. Let me point out that the Agency for Disabled Persons also implements other integration compensatory actions, such as employment, professional rehabilitation and access, and rehabilitation for inclusion and building an accessible environment. Since January 1st this year a new type of monthly support for raising a child with permanent disability under the Family Aid Act for children has been introduced. The amount of aid is differentiated depending on the extent of the damage and according to its intended purpose. The focus in the differentiation of the aid is aimed at the higher type and extent of damage. The higher amount of aid for children with the most severe disabilities takes into account that their parents have much more serious needs and costs than other families. Social services are a key instrument of social inclusion policy. The funding for these services delegated by the State for this year has been increased by 10 million compared to 2016. $750,000. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the 431 thousand. lv. A further increase of nearly 17 million has been adopted for 2018. The total amount will be 228 million levs. 416 thousand. £420. This clearly shows that social inclusion funds are increasing. In addition, funds to finance monthly support for children with permanent disabilities for 2017 have been increased by 49 million. $800,000. lv. A key role in promoting social inclusion of children and adults with disabilities has social services in the community. They, on the one hand, provide professional and specialized assistance and, on the other hand, create opportunities for loved ones to reconcile personal and professional life. By the end of March this year the daily centers and centers for social rehabilitation and integration for children and adults with disabilities in the country are 301 with a capacity of 8908 seats. These services are financed by State budget funds. It is important to note that the National Employment Action Plan regulates various programmes and incentive measures for employment and training aimed at people with permanent disabilities who create conditions and opportunities for access to the labour market and provide appropriate training. They may also participate without limitation in all programmes and measures implemented by the Employment Agency for Training and Employment, as well as under the schemes of the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development', provided that they meet the requirements for inclusion in the programme, incentive measure or scheme concerned. In this year, it is intended to ensure the employment of 2559 disabled persons by programmes and measures envisaged for them. In addition, under the National Program, the employment of 1889 unemployed persons to provide care in a family environment for people with permanent disabilities will be ensured. After a detailed review of the dynamics of natural indicators concerning the implementation of measures for people with permanent disabilities in recent years, the need to increase funds for their socio-economic protection has been established. According to the Programme, the integration of people with disabilities and the financial resources in the State Budget Act for 2016 was 185 million. 640 thousand. lv.; on the 2017 budget and the 2018-2020 budget, additional funds of 5 million are laid down. BGN, so the total amount of the Programme increases to 190 million. 640 thousand. lv. After my inauguration as Minister of Labour and Social Policy and in response to the legitimate requests made by the organisations of disabled people and the representatives of the parents of disabled children, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy made a reasoned proposal to the Minister of Finance for a significant increase in the next years of budget funds for policies aimed at people with disabilities and their social inclusion. With regard to the issues Mr. Hristov developed in his questioning, I would like to point out that yes, there is indeed an action plan adopted on the Strategy for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and the introduction of the ratified Convention for Persons with Disabilities by 2020, while actions in this plan are to be carefully discussed once again with the organisations of people with disabilities and, if necessary, updated. With regard to the Optional Protocol, which Mr. Hristov asked about, the plan provides for its ratification to be carried out by 2020. We are also working hard on the financing of the services "Personal" and "Social Assistant" and their conversion to the needs of people with disabilities, and not as much as an opportunity for additional income to the persons and families, respectively. The issue of updating the amount of the guaranteed minimum income is put in talks with the Ministry of Finance, this is undoubtedly a key figure, the size of which has not really been updated until 2009. It is worth 65 BGN. I hope that, on the basis of the estimates that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has done, what results from updating, increasing the amount of guaranteed minimum income, we will be able to achieve a step in its growth.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u113	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, for up to two supplementary questions within a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Petkov, Dear Members of the National Assembly! People have said that the patient of the hungry does not believe and the sick of the healthy person also, so as long as we respond purely formally and only in figures, as soon as I took office as a MP I had said that people with disabilities are not figures and real solutions to the real problems must be taken. That's actually at stake in your election campaign, too, slogan. My two supplementary questions are: what number of personal assistants is needed to meet the needs of disabled people? Around 2,000 were provided by 2017 and the rest were provided by European programmes. In 2008, the provided personal assistants by the state were many more thanks to the National Employment Action Plan. What resource is needed and foreseen? Is it foreseen in the budget for next year, provided that European funds, unfortunately for people with disabilities, are decreasing? How the individual social assessment provided for in art. 10 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and Is the assessment actually effective, and does it give a real idea of the individual needs of people with disabilities guaranteed by their integration, according to the UN Convention? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Dear Minister, please come in and answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, in answer to your further questions I can give the following information. With regard to the required number of personal assistants, it is difficult to answer, but what I can say is that in 2015 at the start of the Programme, the number of requests for this service is about 45 thousand. According to the Programme "Independent life" and respectively under the National Program currently employed persons as personal assistants, as social assistants, domestic assistants, are about 16 thousand, round the number respectively. As you have noted, the contracts with the municipalities concluded under the "Independent life" programme are about to expire their time limits - part of them by the end of the year, part of them in the next 2018. Therefore, there are requests for national funding to continue and secure this important social service for disabled people, the aim being to maintain at least its coverage, its coverage, and I cannot promise that such a service could be provided for all those in need. We will need to prioritize those who are most deprived of disability. The scope of this service, as you know, now includes older people over 65 who cannot serve themselves. So this is an absolute priority in the Ministry's actions. The problem has been identified, placed and searched, literally and today, its resolution within a short period of time so as not to create social tensions. With regard to how the social assessment is carried out, it is regulated in a regulation. We are about to look again at the situation in this regulation and, if necessary, it will change, because one of the main demands of people with disabilities put forward in the meetings I have held with their representatives is that this social assessment should take into account the individual needs of each disabled person. So the changes that we are going to discuss will be in this direction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. Dear Mr. Gökov, please come in for an answer from the Minister. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is entirely related to your vision for the development of the overall policy for the integration of people with disabilities, as well as specific policies and actions to solve their problems. A comprehensive question in which you had the opportunity to outline a wide horizon of intentions, God willing, and real action in the future. Our understanding of solving these people's problems is fundamentally different from yours, and the practice shows that the policy led for people with disabilities by GERB, of which you are a kind of continuation, is not correct and does not result in visible results. In confirmation of my words, I will quote the report on Bulgaria for 2017 of the European Commission. Two thousand and seventeen years later this is after seven-eight years of management of GERB, and quote: "Poverty and social exclusion continue to represent serious challenges. People with disabilities face a greater risk of poverty or social exclusion than anywhere else in the European Union. I hope you understand the idea of our questioning, it is provoked by non-political nagging, and we want to understand as opposition, together with all the stakeholders, what will be the policy that you will be leading in the social sphere and, in particular, towards people with disabilities, because we are unlikely to see a management programme from this government soon. Thank you for your answer. We can't be happy with him, especially his scope. That's all the time I've had. And I suppose you already know that we have gathered on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and our Rules, the necessary signatures with which we propose discussions on the subject of our inquiry. Mr. Chairman, allow me to give 61 signatures for a reason to schedule debates on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u120	We expect the discussion to focus on the problems with limited access of children and other disabled people to adequate and affordable assistant assistance, problems with assistance and medical devices, the lack of adequate socio-economic protection, the implementation and control of the National Strategy of Disabled People 2016 - 2010 and the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement the Convention on the Rights of Disabled People 2015 - 2020, the system of employment and medical expertise in its part of the work expertise and so on. I hope there will be a constructive debate, not a nagging, which will lead to concrete solutions to the problems of all Bulgarian citizens with disabilities in their favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. By letter No 754-00-62 of 23 June 2017, which was submitted at 10.42 p.m., there was a request for debate on questioning, No 754-05-17, of 25 May 2017 by MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the concrete actions related to them, together with a draft decision. The proposal for a debate on the questioning and the draft decision were signed by 61 MPs, as introduced to you by Mr. Gokov and handed me the request, that is to say the requirement for a proposal of more than one fifth of the MPs. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the inquiry and voting of the draft decision for the next parliamentary control meeting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The second issue is from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov on measures to promote employment in Vratsa district by the end of 2017. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! Regional employment and training programmes are an important instrument of employment policy. Through it, local organisations and communities can solve, both the problems of local labour markets, by creating new jobs for unemployed people from vulnerable groups, but also by supporting the implementation of some of the daily public services related mainly to public activities and improving the environment in settlements. The mechanism of implementation of regional programmes based on the proposed by regional and municipal administrations provided for in the Employment Promotion Act allows for a combined solution to the problem of employment insurance and unemployment reduction, as well as the problem of the lack of opportunity of local authorities and especially in small municipalities and mayors, of hiring people for the implementation of municipal activities. On my admission day in the municipality of Roman on 13 June, mayors of settlements from the municipality expressed their disappointment about the lack of enough budget for the already launched Regional Employment Programme in the region of Vratsa and the inability to provide employment for unemployed people from their settlements. Dear Minister, this is a problem not only in the municipality of Roman, but also in all municipalities of Vratsa and small municipalities. The envisaged budget of 285 thousand. lv. for the region of Vratsa for this year is extremely insufficient. One of the most important measures to save the Northwest is investment in people and employment, especially the discouraged, long-term unemployed fellow citizens and those with low and unclaimed qualifications on the labour market. The lack of an adequate budget for regions such as Vratsa District for this year is comparable to that of the Regional Employment Programme of Plovdiv District, for example, where employment problems are hardly as severe, deprives of efficiency an otherwise good tool to support the unemployed in regions such as ours.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u123	I'm asking you a question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u124	My question to you is: are funds financed by the state budget by the end of 2017, measures for employment of socially weak and long-term unemployed citizens in Vratsa district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u126	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Genov, the development of the regional approach in labour market policy and the reduction of unemployment in economically less developed regions, including through the active labour market policy, is among the priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. At the end of May 2017, the unemployment rate in the district of Vratsa was 14.9 per cent compared to the national average of 7.1%, but decreased by 3.2 percentage points compared to the same month of the previous year. The funds for active labour market policy shall be allocated according to the relative share of the registered persons of the target group, relative share of the requested needs of the labour bureau and the unemployment rate for each Directorate of Labour. According to the established Action Plan of the Employment Agency for 2017 for the unemployed of Vratsa District, funds of 3 million have been allocated. And 100,000. lv. The funds are to provide training for 221 persons and employment of 1022 unemployed persons, of which 492 in new employment. Employment and training programmes and measures are aimed at unemployed from target groups, including long-term unemployed and socially weak persons. As of the end of May 2017, a total of 957 unemployed were employed under programmes and measures in the district. Regional employment programmes are implemented to address regional regional-specific problems and to implement different local activities. In May, the regional programme of Vratsa region launched in 2016 was completed and a new regional programme in the area was launched in May. Seventy-seven people will be involved in six-month employment, including long-term unemployed. The programme, as you mentioned, will be financed with 285 000,31 lv. from the state budget. A training and employment programme for long-term unemployed persons is also implemented in the area, as well as an incentive measure for private sector employers to employ long-term unemployed persons. As of the end of May, 118 persons were involved for employment. According to the National Program "Assistants of people with disabilities" in the district are employed 230 unemployed, providing care to disabled people. With the tools of the active labour market policy through inclusion in programs and measures for training and employment and in schemes and under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" the field workers strive to improve the qualification characteristics of unemployed persons according to the needs of employers. Social partners are actively involved in the process. 174 unemployed persons have already been trained on their projects to requalify and motivate them to find a suitable place of work. In June and July this year will start subsidised employment for 10% and unsubsidised employment for at least 30% of graduates. In July there will be a redistribution of unused funds under programmes and employment measures in total for the country. Out of the unused funds, Vratsa will receive additional funds for active labour market policy to include unemployed people in employment. The unemployed persons from the district will also be included under the schemes and projects financed under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" 2014-2020. Finally, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to work to ensure opportunities for unemployed people to obtain adequate activation, training and employment services for less developed economic regions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u127	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Thank you for your answer. I take occasion of your last sentence and the information that you have provided that the unused area of Vratsa can rely on redistribution, which will allow for an increase in the effectiveness of the various employment measures that are being implemented in the territory of the region and specifically in Vratsa, which will give an additional chance for exactly this part of the target groups that I am talking about in my question and whose use in employment measures allows, as I said, and for the support of local communities. I would like to draw attention, this is my opinion, and my fellow Members, to the fact that, with regard to the conditions for recruitment under these employment measures, the prohibition in regional programmes to include activities which are also carried out by social assistance persons seriously narrows the possibilities of the proposals of local communities and authorities. I suggest you take this into account in the next procedure for preparing regional programmes. I do not see any problem in maintaining, for example, the cleanliness of public territories or green areas, along with persons of social assistance. In general, we will insist with my colleagues from BSP on Bulgaria and from our region in the next state budget in its part for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to provide more funds for such subsidization of regional employment measures and specifically for Vratsa, so that this really good mechanism of regional employment programmes is not formal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. You're not gonna make a doppelganger. On behalf of the parliamentary group "BSP" for Bulgaria.. a statement will be presented to you by the National Representative Ivo Hristov. You have the floor, Mr. Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u130	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, honourable Members of the limited representation of GERB today, dear journalists! Last week at a meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media, the following incident occurred: a member of the Council for Electronic Media has shown an unacceptable attitude towards a respected member of the journalist's guild. There are therefore witnesses, both from those present at the Commission's meeting and then this case was as widely publicised as possible in the media. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is obliged to state and take part in this issue. The Council for Electronic Media, colleagues, is not a random body. He is not only independent as far as possible in this world, but he is above all a pillar for guaranteeing the independence of journalistic speech in the country. This is written both in the status of the institution in question, in the Law on Radio and Television, and in the ethical rules of the journalistic guild. They've been violated harshly. Both legal regulations and ethical rules have been violated by a member of the Council for Electronic Media, which, among other things, is also a journalist. We must state that this is absolutely unacceptable, this violates not only ethical and legal principles, it violates the basic principles of democracy. If there's one thing we've won in these 25 years, the so-called pass, that's at least freedom of speech. A member of the Council for Electronic Media allows himself not to defend the speech, but to trample it in the most arrogant way possible. This, of course, we believe is not just a separate precedent, but is questioning the work, style, atmosphere on which this institution is actually working if it allows such members in its environment. We must state that such behaviour of a member of the SEM is incompatible with his place in this institution, so there is already a wide response, and extremely negative, above all, the journalistic guild. The problem is also political. The problem is political, and since we are a political body, we must take political action on this issue. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is clearly saying that it will support any journalistic initiative aimed at defending freedom of speech and will strongly oppose all parliamentary funds, against attempts they are suppressed in any way! We want to make it very clear that we will be following this case closely, because only the freedom of speech remains. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. The next question to Minister Petkov is asked by the National Representative Georgi Gokov about the right of individuals to transfer their pension insurance from private pension funds to the funds of the State Social Security. 4b of the Social Security Code. You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is about problems in the exercise of the right of insured persons to transfer their pension insurance from private pension funds to state social security funds. The problem has been presented as one before me in my reception room, as a MP, and also to my parliamentary mail from several women, mostly born in 1960 " 1961." You know that with the changes of the Social Security Code of 15 August entered into force art. 4b, which provided for the possibility that persons who had not been granted an old-age pension and internship could change their pension insurance by transferring from private universal pension funds to the provision in the Fund of public social security. The right to transfer was clearly and categorically recorded. The only condition that the norm of art. 4b set, was the deadline by which the transfer can be exercised, namely no later than five years before the person reaches the age at which he acquires the right to pension. Unfortunately, the practice of applying the right of transfer gives way to its clarity and firmness and is linked to creating obstacles and unjustified refusals to its exercise. It is about the way the NRA and the NSI interpret and apply the condition no later than five years before the age at which the person acquires the right to a pension. The interpretation of the NRA is in the following sense: the retirement age shall be taken as the starting point of retirement for the relevant calendar year in which the right to choose is exercised, the lodging of the application and not the year in which the person himself practically reaches the age. This leads to confusion and delusion. In the absence of time, the issue concerns a limited range of people who are being violated, however. It's quite complicated to explain, but I suppose you've come to the problem of the written question and I'll limit myself to giving specific examples to develop the question further, I'll ask you the questions specifically. What is your attitude, Minister, to this interpretation of the NRA and the NSI? What is the logic followed by such an interpretation? Do you see, and where, in the Social Security Code, there is reason for such an interpretation? Will you take the necessary steps to end this practice and what happens to those who are denied the transfer on the basis of this interpretation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, according to art. 4b, para. 1 of the Social Security Code in force from 15 August 2015, persons insured in a universal pension fund shall have the right to choose to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions. 69 of the state social security with an increased contribution in the amount of the social contribution for a universal pension fund no later than five years before the age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and, if they are not granted pension for retirement and age. At the adoption of the Law, a special provision was also established..................................................................................................................... 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the CSR, on the basis of which persons on 1 January 2016 remain less than five years until the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). By 31 December 2016, they could only exercise the right under Article 1 once. 4b of choice to change their insurance from a universal pension fund in the Fund of Pensions, respectively Fund of Pensions. 69 of state social security. On this basis the assessment of age under art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 of the Social Security Code shall be for the calendar year in which the right of choice is exercised. For 2016 it was 60 years and 10 months for women and 63 years and 10 months for men, and for this year for women and 64 years for men and so on, and not depending on the year in which the person will personally reach the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). One of the CSRs. This means that up to now the possibility of changing the insurance for women aged 56 or older who were born from January 1960 to June 1961 has ended. All other persons who do not have pensions for retirement and age are still able to make their choice. Indeed, there are cases in the Social Security Code where the assessment of the rights of persons is based on their personal age for acquiring the right to a pension. For example, the assessment of the survivor's pension right, but in these cases it is explicitly stated that the right of the person arises a certain number of years earlier than his age under art. 68 CSR. In view of the above, I believe that the persons have not been prevented from exercising the right to choose insurance because of an inaccurate interpretation of the Law by the employees of the National Revenue Agency, as the latter have applied the current legal provision. Taking into account the importance of the right of choice for insured persons, I believe that all legal and administrative prerequisites for its implementation should be provided. In this regard, and given the signals from citizens that you have also mentioned that you are receiving, and I am aware, I would like to inform you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has prepared the necessary changes to legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u135	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u136	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to your answer, but only last I did not understand that you have prepared legislative changes, I hope so. I would like to begin with the fact that it is well-proclaimed when adopting the right to a free choice for the transfer of pension insurance would be reasonable, practical and protected only if no one and in no way prevents persons from exercising this legally guaranteed option, as was the spirit of the adopted provision by the legislator. It is quite unacceptable that the obstacle is the result of an interpretation of the texts under the Social Security Code. We're not talking about unlawfulness here at all. I have no such claim to declare the interpretation unlawful, but it is somehow unfair, and its injustice is in its part of restrictions set by the time limits for the relocation of the NSI and rather an interpretation of these deadlines. You are aware that, interpreting the deadlines, those born in 1960, in 1961 and so on, but already less in time, are most affected and have a very short period of informed choice. Perhaps when it comes to an informed choice, then we face even greater injustice, because these people cannot navigate and wander between what pension they will receive if they choose the public social security only if they choose the combination. Because the people who were born in those years and not all their insurance service has passed after the pension reform, when this insurance started in the second pillar of the supplementary pension insurance, are wandering around and they do not know what the result of their retirement will be. I hope that it has become clear to you that this is not about the people who missed the deadline, but that they are not protected by the right to an informed choice. Mr. Chairman, just three more sentences. Perhaps we should ask for information about the number of transferred lots in the DVO and how many of them are women born in 1960 and also the number of refusals to transfer, and also those born in 1960, and we will see the problem in full light. Finally, you have mentioned that you are preparing some legislative initiative to overcome the problem, I do not understand your last sentence of this. Thank you for your reply, but both I and the people will be under the impression of unfair or limited choice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I agree that this is unfair to individuals who, five years before their personal retirement age, respectively, have declared their desire to change participation, but because the period is shorter than five years to the current retirement age, have been refused. But, as I said in my reply, this is a strict application of the Law by law enforcement, in this case it is the National Revenue Agency. Because requests for change of participation are deposited there and that is the authority which accordingly carries out the necessary actions for change or transfer to the State social security of that part of the contribution. With regard to the question that you have asked, I am currently not ready to give you accurate data on the number of persons who have exercised their right, all the more so for those who have received a refusal. On the basis of your question, I will request a reference from the National Revenue Agency, and I hope to receive it and be able to be answered accordingly in the specifics. With regard to what I said in the reply, it is that the solution to the problem, in our view, should be done by a corresponding change in the Code of Social Security with an explicit indication that it is about the personal age of the person, that is, from his age, or from his age, as in other provisions of the Code of Social Security has been done. I have set out, for example, the pension right of the surviving husband of a deceased pensioner that he may receive five years before his age or age, that is to say, this is explicitly emphasised under the condition of growing retirement age as set out in the Social Security Code. This should also be the norm in art. 4b and I believe that with its change, with this precision, there will be no problem, there will be no room for interpretation at all and there will be a fair solution to this issue for all persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u139	Thank you, dear Minister, for answering the question and for participating in today's parliamentary control. There is a question next to Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs. After this question we will make a break during which you will be acquainted with the guides of the Friendship Groups in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. The issue is from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov on findings in the report of the Center for Prevention and Counteraction of Corruption and Organized Crime. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, according to the Center for the Study of Democracy, corruption in the country is extremely high - about 18% of people over 18 admit that they have paid a bribe and 28% report that they have been under pressure for corruption. In 2016, the level of susceptibility to corruption pressure reached its highest level, and the level of resistance from such pressure has been lower since 1999. According to CSD data, nearly 1.3 million citizens are affected by corruption annually. Only 120-150 cases come to press charges, which is only 0.01% of all cases. Administrative corruption is increasing. In the reported high level of corruption distribution, specialized anti-corruption units and control system bodies are ineffective. This finding is confirmed even by state institutions in the face of the Centre for Prevention and Countering Corruption and Organized Crime at the Council of Ministers, whose report accurately states that there is a lack of capacity and coordination of the authorities against corruption, blurry responsibilities and insufficiently independent. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what measures will you take in relation to the fight against corruption?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u142	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tsonkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The topic of fighting corruption is the responsibility of each of us, each of you and every employee in the state administration. Indeed, I, as Deputy Prime Minister, who was appointed coordinator of the anti-corruption strategy, can speak on behalf of the government what we have already done, what is to come and some of the laws that are already in parliament in this area. You know that in the past the National Assembly has been discussed several times and adopted at first reading the so-called Anticorruption Law in the public domain. He is currently in a working group at the Ministry of Justice, in which all authorities and institutions involved in the case are involved. It is this Law that will overcome fragmentation and fragmentation between the bodies that you mention, which you actually mention, and the report that you are quoting. What's going on? You file a declaration to one institution, the conflict of interest is checked, the third one does the checks, and the fourth one, if it comes to the withdrawal of the property, does it without much knowing how to deal with them. This is precisely what will be overcome by this Law. The creation of the single body around the best working, the assessment of our partners, namely the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and the introduction of the Institute of Civil confiscation. Of course, only with the creation of a new body will this not happen. The most important corruption measure is what the government has already begun to do in reducing the burden. The smaller the access to the administration, the smaller the corruption pressure. When you have to go and get documents from one administration, take them to another when you are in a hurry, that is, you have short time to issue a permit and you have to line up in 10 queues, you understand that sometimes citizens are forced to seek services only and only in order to issue the document within their requested period. The connection between the administrations and the dropping of unnecessary documents is already being done. We have a task by Monday from the prime minister. I give an example at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs until yesterday was paid with stamps. Can you imagine that? Since yesterday, it's paid with a POS terminal. My Secretary-General is tasked within two weeks to introduce such payments by bank transfer, that is, not through banks, but so that it is without fees, with POS terminals in all our foreign embassies, starting with European, where are the most visa services, in general consular services. I'm setting an example. Imagine in the 21st century we pay with brands. It could have been done and done in a week. The question is: why hasn't this happened so far? You also know that several of the committees adopted at first reading the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure. There are many amendments being proposed there. One of the most important is, of course, what you have said about overcoming this coming back endlessly so as not to go to trial. Accelerating the process by means of an administrative hearing, which will avoid the possibility of reaching second instance, we return and start again, at the beginning of the first, so that the court is equally distant from the parties; prosecutors are liable when allowing such violations, which they have removed, but lead to an endless return; lawyers are also disciplined, and not to use this loophole in the Law on the Infinite Return of the Process and also to pass the cases of corruption at the high levels of power to the Specialized Court and Prosecutor's Office. Because, after these specialized institutions started dealing with organised crime in absolutely all reports and in absolutely all references we see a serious reduction and almost a lack of one. And something that is very important, the common unit created by several years ago between the authorities investigating and pressing charges in the face of the NRA, Customs and DANS, BOP and the Prosecutor's Office in one place in the fight against smuggling and the grey economy, and there the results are absolutely indicative. This is set as a good example in all European countries as a good example of how bringing these people together and the constant coordination between them led to over 3 billion. 200 million. lv. more revenue, if I'm not mistaken, in the state budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u143	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u144	Yeah, it's a long theme.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u145	That's why I left you almost two minutes, even over two minutes. I hope the coworkers aren't mad. Mr. Tsonkov, come in with your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the comprehensive answer. It's a very serious subject. I see you're already admitting the problem and looking for a solution, which is a step forward. At the moment, what we can say about Bulgaria is that instead of the Law being supreme, we have the rule of corruption, unfortunately. This problem is systemic and, unfortunately, most public services are almost privatized at different levels in the administration, which also leads to corrupt practices. In five, six months, when I ask you that question again, I wish I could hear of serious progress in the fight against corruption. No doubt I'll ask you again. I hope, then, that the data that is being exported by Transparency International, unfortunately, are tragic. Bulgaria comes first across the European Union on corruption, that we will change this ranking. In the Balkans it turns out that we are also in the last place. It turns out that there is currently no targeted anti-corruption policy. I'll follow you. I'm ready to help with my colleagues. However, we would like to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Here you are for a brief duplicate, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u148	Thank you. There is a targeted policy and I was quoting some data for a reason. It is a fact that since the beginning of the mandate of Borisov 2 a coordination unit has been established and it is a fact that 6 billion thoughts have been collected. lv. More revenue. So this is the real fight against corruption. The fact is that the feeling.. let's talk about a feeling that is different from the actual level comes from the many bureaucracy. I agree entirely with you here. It is no coincidence that the Prime Minister has set such short deadlines. They're doable. Here's the big standoff. During my entire career, I have been one of the people who worked for this in the Council for Administrative Reform in his first term as Deputy Minister. The opposition of the administration is a great fact! When you're trying to get rid of a favor, almost the world will collapse, it'll be a scary thing if it gets removed. Therefore I also call you as opposition: hear us, yeah; follow us, yeah. However, when we do real things, be constructive opposition. We have done not only what I told you about the task force. These are practical, real things. Let's take it into account anyway. Whether it feels that way depends on the way we talk about it, on the way we face problems. We recognize them: yes, we have them. None of the ministers or the prime minister said there was no such problem. However, these are the real actions. They're not about changing nonstop to some law. They are in coordination between the authorities, with the focus of each of the ministers, who answers that this is his first priority, first priority! They've got a lot of work to do! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. We interrupt for 30 minutes. During this time, you will be acquainted with the guidance of the friendship groups at the Forty-fourth National Assembly. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u150	Colleagues, please take your seats. We are continuing with parliamentary control. Please invite the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. The first question is from Mrs. Miglena Doykova Alexandrova on specific measures to improve air cleanness in Sofia. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova, two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, the air in Sofia is getting dirtier, and in some areas of the capital it is five times above normal. Despite the measures taken, it is still far from the purity standards. Another piece of evidence was an audit by the Court of Auditors, which shows that the average annual standards for the concentration of particulate matter in the capital are above acceptable. The Court of Auditors' observations cover the period from 2010 to 2015. It is clear from the results that compliance with the annual average PM concentration standards is an exception. All information systems in Sofia show one air in the capital is far from the standards of cleanliness and safety for health. In this regard, I ask you to answer: what specific measures will be taken to improve air cleanliness in Sofia and will an early pollution warning system be developed? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u152	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you go. Three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u153	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Alexandrova! It is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment and Water to conduct the state policy on atmospheric air quality management. Locally, the main obligation to maintain air quality, according to legislation, is the municipal authorities. In areas with levels of pollution above the established standards, local authorities are obliged to develop and implement municipal atmospheric air quality programmes. The programmes should be considered as a primary means of tackling over-conflict air pollution. It is in them that the measures should identify the time limits for achieving these norms. Sofia Municipality has prepared an Atmospheric Air Quality Management Programme for the period 2015 - 2020. In order to reduce emissions and to achieve the established PM standards, the Commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. It sets out a set of specific measures to reduce this pollution and deadlines for their implementation. Given the seriousness of the problem of over-pollution of the air with particulate matter, the Ministry of Environment and Water shall take the following actions: 1. At the end of 2016, the National Assembly ratified an Agreement on the provision of consulting services between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As a result, the National Atmospheric Air Quality Programme is to be developed and adopted. It should identify the measures applicable, the institutions responsible, the deadlines for implementation, the financing, the opportunities for applying financial relief and so on. The programme will identify measures at national level that municipalities are unable to implement themselves, given the fact that the problem of overnormal levels of fine particulate matter has socio-economic roots. The deadline for the implementation of this Treaty shall be March 2018. 2. An interdepartmental working group has been established with the task of preparing proposals for a change in legislation. The main objective is to limit the sulphur and ash content of coal and briquettes for domestic heating. 3. An interdepartmental working group has been established to identify and take measures against air pollution with particulate matter from road transport. 4. Axis 5 of the Operational Programme is created "Environment" "Performing the quality of the air" and this is for the period 2014 - 2020, with a financial resource aimed precisely at fine dust particles and improving air quality in domestic heating and transport. The total value of this financial instrument is 115 million investment levs, currently allocated 3 million. BGN, so that municipalities that want to make their programmes or update their current ones can be financed with this 3 million. lv. To date, we have signed contracts with the municipalities of Asenovgrad, Plovdiv, Vratsa, Galabovo, Dimitrovgrad, Montana, Nessebar, Shumen Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u154	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Alexandrova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I would be delighted if you would periodically introduce us to the progress of the program you have just described. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u156	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You're not gonna use the back. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov regarding air pollution in the city of Ruse. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u157	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Georgi Stoilov, I'm from the Ruse constituency. In answer to the previous question, Minister, you said it was the Ministry's duty to control air quality. For years the problems of Russians with air pollution from industrial enterprises have been known, but, unfortunately, the situation is not improving. A number of meetings have been held with citizens, controlling institutions and representatives of the portfolio ministries, but despite the promises made, there are no results to date. So far, all the Russians and the region have sensed are the familiar unpleasant smells. The signals to the competent authorities and the Municipality of Ruse are daily and numerous, as well as in the public space, have repeatedly expressed their opinion. It is because of these urgent problems that our questions are also: Minister, does the air quality in Ruse meet the regulatory requirements? What are the main industrial air pollutants in Ruse? What measures will your entrusted office take to appease the long-standing concerns of Russians regarding the quality of their air? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u158	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Mr. Minister, please come in for an answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u159	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable gentlemen Stoilov, Milkov, Zarkov! On the territory of Ruse Municipality are currently operating three stations for automatic measurement of air quality: a permanent station, which is in the city of Renaissance, the station of 36 Riga Street, which has been operating since the end of 2015, and the station in the yard of the University of Angel Kanchev, which has been working since September 2016. The analysis of the data from the three monitoring points shows that there are no recorded excesses in the average hours or in the average hours of the measured indicators, except in the concentration of particulate matter. In order to establish the sources of unpleasant smells in September 2016 by order of the mayor of Ruse Municipality an interdepartmental working group was formed with representatives of RIEW, Municipality, RZI and Labour Inspection. During the period October 2016 it carried out checks, including control, of the "Advanst Technician Composit", "Montupe", "Bilbobul", "Lubrica" and "Pyrolysis Бг". The results of the studies show that the emission standards for harmful substances released into the ambient air are respected. In the area of Montupe, unpleasant smells were found and unorganized emissions were leaked from the roof of Hall No 3. In order to stop the disorganised release of emissions, Montupet has deposited an investment proposal in the Inspection, which provides detailed information on planned changes in ventilation systems, including alternatives to aspiration and ventilation systems in production halls. At present, the Regional Environmental Inspectorate in Ruse is conducting a procedure to assess the need for environmental impact assessment and the information received by the operator has been sent for an opinion by RZI, the municipality and the Labour Inspectorate. Upon completion of this procedure, a change of the complex permit of the "Montupe" to include new conditions guaranteeing the termination of disorganised emissions and unorganised smells. As regards the results of the control activity and the failure to comply with the complex authorisation in force, an act of a criminal decree of 500 thousand has been drawn up. lv. The same was confirmed by the Regional and Administrative Court in Ruse, with the value of the sanction ultimately remaining 450 thousand. lv. A further act has been drawn up and a new criminal decree of 300 thousand has been issued for non-compliance with the conditions of the complex permit in force in November 2016. lv. By order of the Director of the Inspection, the use of the smoke hatches on the roof of Hall No 3 is suspended and the enclosures No 7 and No 8 are sealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u161	Dear Minister Dimov, I understand from your answer that you are familiar with the problem of the city, and I hope you will be empathetic. I am addressing you as a Russian and I am telling you that I want you to understand and understand the seriousness of this problem, in Ruse reigns, to put it mildly, tension, not to say psychosis in certain neighborhoods, in which noticeably, almost every night, the smell of bakelite is felt. People don't dare to open their windows, talk about it, write on social media, in articles in the local press. Russians say the air isn't contaminated, it's poisoned! Part of the problem is that the institutions claim that there is no licensed appliance to throw at these air pollutions. I know about the acts drawn up and the penal decrees issued, I know about your commitment after our questioning is submitted, but still the pollution continues at the present time we speak. We demand that you commit yourself to providing the state with all the necessary equipment for carrying out the checks and results to be provided to citizens; to be ready to talk not only to us representatives and the district governor, but also to citizens who have formed their groups and hold meetings and protests, but to date there is no result; to carry out all the checks on the possible and other industrial pollutants, not only to the one that you pointed out in your reply, because it may not be the only one. Most likely in a month or two, we will ask you again on this issue, because the problem is very serious, and citizens have heard answers and questions from other MPs and other ministers. I really hope the suffocating smell of Bakelite in Ruse stops! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u162	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u163	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, I fully understand what you're saying, and I think I understand it correctly! The fact is that Ruse has an inheritance perhaps from a very long period of time, in which there are problems beginning in the distant 80s of the last century, and that the sensitivity is high. What I can take on as a commitment right now is that in the near future I will be in Ruse on this occasion as soon as possible. We do not consider Montupet as a separate case. I told you five businesses that were under investigation. The specific problems that Ruse has are the main problem, not the general pollution that the Ministry of Environment and Water monitors everywhere. In any case, one of the requirements that are very likely to be laid down in the future complex permit is the own monitoring and information to be obtained to the citizens at a convenient place for them. However, I do not want to rush the procedure, let these procedures be completed and ask for more patience, but anyway I think I will see you in Ruse within the next month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u164	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a third issue by the MPs Yordan Mladenov and Nadia Klisurska regarding the recultivation of the landfills in Pazardzhik district. Here you are, Mr. Mladenov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u165	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! There are 12 municipal dumps on the territory of Pazardzhik district. At the final stage is the construction of a Regional landfill for solid household waste. Two of the existing old dumps of Pazardzhik and Lesichevo, often set themselves on fire or are deliberately set on fire and seriously gassed nearby settlements. The market dump gassed the villages of Kapitan Dimitrievo, Aleko Konstantinovo and Glavinitsa, and the landfill of Lesichevo gassed the village of Lesichevo. The landfills that were built tens of years ago today poison the population with chemical smoke, pollute the groundwater and the environment. A worrying trend is significantly greater incidence of both oncological, as well as acute and chronic diseases and their more severe course of action. For eight years now, the European Commission expects our country to close 113 municipal waste depots. At the end of 2015, Bulgaria was sentenced to build facilities to meet European requirements. Then the Ministry of Environment and Water proposes a scheme for the gradual closure of the old depots. It turns out, however, that we are behind this schedule. Dear Minister, when will be the specific deadline for starting the work of the new Regional depot for solid municipal waste? What measures will the Ministry of Environment and Water take to reclamate the old municipal dumps in Pazardzhik district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u166	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u167	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Klisurska, Dear Mr. Mladenov! On the territory of Pazardzhik district, two regions of Pazardzhik and Panagyurishte are defined in the National Waste Management Plan. The Regional Depot in Panagyurishte, serving the municipalities of Panagyurishte and Strelcha, was built with funds under the Operational Program "Environment" 2007 The municipal depot in Panagyurishte was reconstructed within the framework of the Regional Depot Building Project. The working project for the reconstruction of the depot in the municipality of Strelcha is in the process of coordination. For the construction of the regional depot in Pazardzhik, which will serve the municipalities of Pazardzhik, Batak, Belovo, Bratsigovo, Velingrad, Lesichevo, Peshtera, Rakitovo and Septemvri, is provided funding by the Environmental Protection Management Organisation of almost 16 million. lv. Construction works have started at the end of 2015. Construction works are expected to be completed by the end of June 2017 and to start the procedure of selecting the operator of the regional depot. The specific deadline for the introduction of the depot in operation depends on Pazardzhik Municipality's readiness to declare a procedure under the Public Procurement Act and for the choice of an operator and on the course of the procedure itself. In the event that it is not appealed, the depot is expected to be put into service by the end of 2017. More than 100 million have been provided by the Operational Programme "Environment" 2007-2013 and by the POSO up to now. lv. for landfill reclamation projects that do not comply with the regulatory requirements. The Ministry of Environment and Water through the Ministry of Environment and Water provides the majority of the necessary funds for implementation of projects, and municipalities also provide their own co-financing from the accumulated collateral for rehabilitation and post-service care under art. 60 for waste management. The funds needed to implement the reclamation projects in the Pazardzhik region are around 13 million. lv. A project for the reconstruction of the depot in Rakitovo municipality is already agreed. The realization of the reclamation projects will start after the introduction into operation of the regional depot. In conclusion, the Ministry of Environment and Water through the Regional Inspectorate of the Environment and Leads Pazardzhik exercises continuous control over the exploitation of municipal depots. A total of 46 checks were carried out at the Pazardzhik depot during the period 2012-2017. Three criminal decrees were issued and the corresponding sanctions were imposed on the depot operator and a fine to the company manager responsible for the operation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u168	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u169	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, this is the dumps I was quoting earlier. [[Shows documents and gives them to Minister Dimov.]] Here, colleagues can get acquainted with these dumps on a daily basis gassing hundreds of thousands of people. I am not satisfied with the answer for the simple reason that you clearly did not say how many of the 100 million. lv. will be set aside for recycling of landfills in Pazardzhik region and when this will happen. That's 13 million. lv. It's costing the recycling of the market dump, so it's okay. When will these funds be allocated and people will have a better way of life? I'm also worried about the fact that this 100 million. lv. There will not be enough to reclamate all the landfills in our country, and what follows from here with the European Union's procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u170	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u171	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mladenov, if I may, in reverse order. The obligation that the Republic of Bulgaria has as of 31 December 2017 is the old depots, the old landfills to stop working. That means the reclamation must have ended at this point. There's no way he can finish the reclamation so fast. I agree with you that the financial resources that we have at the moment are not sufficient to close the reclamation of all landfills. It is easy to see, given that only this area, which we are talking about today, requires more than 13 million. lv. We must also bear in mind that a fundamental obligation in this direction has also the municipal authorities, which, on a competitive basis, must fight for this money. I told you that one of Rakitovo Municipality's projects is now under consideration. In any event, when there are projects ready and they enter into the Environmental Action Management Company, they compete with other projects ready. We cannot force the mayors or municipal leaders to take certain actions, so the other function of the Ministry of Control and the sanctioner enters into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u172	Thank you, dear Minister. With this we have exhausted the questions for today to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Let's thank him for his participation. We move on to questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. A question from the MP Svetla Bachvarova on structural and financial problems in the Executive Agency. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues! I am beginning by saying that anti-urban protection is an extremely important activity which, therefore, protects farmers' incomes. In the context of the circumstances in Bulgaria the Executive Agency "Fighting with hails" which is a structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, performs this function. We have witnessed that there has been a serious problem over the past three years. This serious problem is in several directions. First, the number of staff who are busy performing this function. According to the rules of procedure, 583, but in practice they have to cover the activities of 758 people, saying that in the respective polygons three are needed, not two people, as it is now. Besides, the salary that people in the field receive is extremely low. It is at the level of minimum wage. By the way, there is a paradox that people who are engaged in direct production on the ground are civil servants. I don't know how this happened in time, but the civil servant is not busy with direct production?! In any case, a third year of existing tension leads to situations where protest actions may occur at any time precisely because of these poor working conditions. My first question to you relates to this: how and what opportunities does the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry have to respond to this situation and create prerequisites for a normal job in this season in order to really carry out its function? That is the question that those working in the system also raise. The second, perhaps more important question is: what reforms do you plan to do in relation to anti-urban protection? A reform was proclaimed in GERB's second government. I was very surprised that all farmers supported it. They supported that they should pay for anti-urban protection; they supported that polygons should be expanded. All this was presented in the media as a great achievement. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The fact is, we have another situation right now, which is exactly the opposite. What is the policy and what is the vision of the Ministry in this direction? Thank you. I apologize for the longer question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u174	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. Mr. Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Three minutes to answer, Mr. Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u175	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prof. Bachvarova, the question you asked from the stand was much more specific than the one asked in the letter. So maybe I'll save everything I've been given in the frame of my prepared answer. Yeah, the Agency for Urban Fighting has its problems and they're not from yesterday. The problems are related to the annual provision of resources for the purchase of rockets, related to the provision of the remuneration of the employees. At the moment, as you know, there is an addition to the teams, they are no longer two each, but three each, although additional contracts. One of the topics that we are currently discussing with the management of both major trade unions at the Agency itself is the remuneration of the employees. Those on the playgrounds receive the minimum wage of 460 BGN. What I have made as a commitment is within the scope of the law, given the status of these employees, to raise wages from 1 July. It should be borne in mind that their status as civil servants and for employment is linked to the option to increase the basis of attestations, and not as is the case in the companies on the basis of financial opportunities. Their request is for a 20% increase, and I morally support it from the point of view that opportunities to provide a normal lifestyle only from a minimum wage are not enough for every Bulgarian citizen. It is a very separate issue that these people have the opportunity to be in shifts, being conditionally speaking, I apologize for the expression "dead season" in which they do not fight hails, carry out other activities and have additional incomes. Either way, the topic of remuneration is open. I will do my best to increase it from July 1st within the framework of legal opportunities, for which we are currently in talks with both the management and the trade unions. In terms of strategy. Yes, there is a very good strategy developed at first glance to pass the Agency itself as a state enterprise, which can be supported by contributions from farmers to ensure full funding of all activities.... the actual activity itself, maintenance, wages. Yes, indeed the best option is for it to become a commercial company, in this case a state enterprise, and fall from the burden of the budget. What's the problem with me right now? As far as these contributions, so recorded, are realistic? We are currently preparing an analysis to see in other countries around us, and also in Europe how similar agencies or businesses are supported, which are not on budget support. Yes, a state enterprise will also have its support. It is normal to have its support, but the State.. for part-time activities as an option. The risk of going entirely to one state-owned enterprise from 1 January next year, and of giving up this state-owned enterprise at one point without revenue, because some or other sectors do not want to make contributions, will be a much bigger problem than the problem it currently has. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] On this topic, I undertake to discuss at a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, which is scheduled for next Wednesday, at the so-called Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u176	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Bachvarova for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u177	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! Thank you for the commitment to correct what all those working in the system expect, i.e. to correct the pay, however minimal.. 20% against the backdrop of the minimum wage, but it is still a step in the right direction. However, a reform requires much more effort, requires a lot of measured and accurate estimates of how financial resources will be provided. A state enterprise at least in the Ministry of Agriculture has a very negative experience. Take, for example, "Irrigation systems" in which, if the State has in any way financed certain activities, it is in no way capable of fulfilling its obligations. It's regulated by law. In other words, the step towards a state-owned enterprise is quite risky for the employed and also for those who expect this service to be extremely important for agriculture. Because otherwise, if there is no anti-urban protection, the other element that appears is that the state has to pay for completely failed areas, which becomes a pointless exercise in terms of the state's finances. And I really hope that when you are ready to propose a package of proposals for reforms in the Executive Agency, they will be somewhat represented in Parliament so that decisions can be made that we can all be solidarityd with. We believe that this activity is important to the state and must be supported. As for the experience of other countries, for me, as a person who has worked long in this field, the experience of other countries is not always the best for us. We have some things, some kind of system. She's working. And when it comes only to financing this system, it should be going in the direction of smooth changes, not of experience that can be negative for us as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u178	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. A hole? There won't be. We move on to the second question to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. He is one of the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Prof. Georgi Stoilov. Bachvarova on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for development and support of organic beekeeping in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u179	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! The importance of beekeeping to man and nature is unnecessary to talk about. Beekeeping is an important industry in agriculture. During the years due to the dynamics of beekeeping, a number of changes in the legal documents have taken place and the latter is Ordinance No 10 of 14 April 2015, which lays down the conditions for the registration of establishments, specifically bees, the order and method of identification of hives and bee families. The change to this Regulation and to the accuracy added to Section III, art. 7a and 7b for specific requirements for the means of official identification of bee families, put beekeepers under great difficulty in meeting these requirements. It is even more striking that, despite the early promises, these changes will take place at the end of 2016, it is a fact from 28 March this year in the course of the 2017 direct payments campaign. This, you understand, is quite disturbing and has led to the inability for beekeeper farmers to be able to submit in time applications for support for direct payments for 2017. Additional tensions have led to the failure to function and even to date of the Beekeepers module in the integrated information system of BABM. Both orders of the Minister of Agriculture and Food are essential for biological beekeeping. The first is Order No RD-09-144 of February 2017, which establishes a Methodology for the reduction and refusal of payments under Measure 11, which is contrary to the European Regulation on minimum time limits. The second order is No RS-09-278 of March 2017, which limits farmers who have fulfilled their commitment under Measure 214. This puts part of the beekeepers in disadvantage to other producers who have already made a new commitment under Measure 11. It can be said that in practice this stops the development of organic beekeeping and the realization of organic production in Bulgaria, which is contrary to the overall policy of the European Union to promote and support the production of organic products. With this, we would like to ask the following questions: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take to address these problems? What policy will the Ministry take to support biological beekeeping? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u180	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov? Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u181	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, esteemed Mr. Stoilov, according to current data as of 20 June 2017 candidates under the.Biological beekeeping............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. One of the reasons for amending Regulation No 10 of 2015 on the conditions for registration and the order for identification of bee families is to align the conditions and good traceability of bee families with which owners of the same apply for measures under the measures of the "Agro-environment and climate', the "Biological Farming' and the two from the Rural Development Programme, and the "Agro-environment payments' under the old programme. The financial support for organic beekeeping families is provided through the 11 "Biological Farming" facility of the Programme 2014-2020 and the annual amount of financial assistance for a bee family is 25 euros per bee family. In addition, you know that bee families fall on the list of priority animals that are subject to priority support for all private measures under the Rural Development Programme for this programming period, and these are the measures under 4.1 and 4.2 s for the production and processing of agricultural production and, respectively, 6.1 and 6.3 for young farmers and semi-market holdings. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u182	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Professor Bachvarova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u183	Thank you. Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Our opinion remains that this change in Regulation No 10 was put at the last minute. Besides, it's not necessary. And so far, there's been an I.D. This identification has been working since 2010 with the adoption of the first beekeeping programmes, and has continued to date. Good thing it was only for organic beekeeping, because otherwise I don't know how a system would work, where you don't have a section of beekeeping and families are aligned as any single establishment should be carried by electronic ticket, which should have brands, numbers and so on, things that are extremely heavy for farmers, and I don't see why this step has been taken. And it's a good thing it's just for the biologicals. In the reasons when the Regulation was changing, it said: "To improve the health status and to count the number of families in need. Nothing like this can happen with identification, because control remains the same. That is to say, you have no change in the Fund of Agriculture or in the information system. And why did we have to do all this to farmers? I really don't understand. In any case, since the issue is about the topic of Beekeeping, I believe that there are many problems in this sector. At least three are related to the implementation of the Plant Protection Act and the protection of bees, identification and market. For the market, especially after the decision for Ukraine to expand the duty-free imports of honey, I suppose we will have even more problems. My request is: when such criminal measures are taken against farmers, should I consider whether they are necessary and not make it more difficult for the administration and the agricultural business than to help?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u184	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u185	Thank you. Of course, I cannot agree with extreme opinions such as penal measures and others. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we also have irregularities in the Beekeeping sector that are emerging. This identification system in the sector must be made. There must be control over the movement of hives and bee families. Given the possibility of applying under one or another programme, I would say that deformities were also obtained under measures 6.1 and 6.3 from the point of view of registering hives in continuous motion. In conclusion, there must be control. I do not agree with discriminatory measures. With regard to the sector that it needs to be priorityd and supported, I am at your disposal to discuss any measures that would benefit the sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u186	Thank you, dear Minister. Third question from the MP Yordan Mladenov and Prof. Svetla Bachvarova on the conclusion of a contract for the implementation of the municipal measure under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. Here you are, Mr. Mladenov, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u187	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in September 2016, applications were accepted by the State Fund........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ After the state fund Ranking, which had many objections, there is currently no response to them. At the same time, there are no announced results and contracts with municipalities. Dear Minister, our question is: what are the reasons for the serious delay that puts the implementation of the projects at risk, and what deadlines will you set for the contracts with the municipalities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u188	Thank you, dear Mr. Mladenov. For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. Mr. Porozhanov, you're welcome to develop your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u189	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Professor Bachvarova, dear Mr. Mladenov! I'm not going to read my writing again. Thank you for that question. There is definitely a problem within the framework of the examination and non-compliance of the deadline. The provisions and requirements of the Programme were quite complicated, complex, including in terms of interpretation, much more complex than the previous programming period. This required further interpretations in the way of ranking by the Paying Agency, which made the Ranking at the end of last year and the beginning of this year. There's been a lot of complaints. They were principled in terms mainly of two specific points and whether it should be one way or another. The way it is ranked is within the framework of the Ordinance and the Law. The interpretations which were given were agreed in advance with the Association of Municipalities and subsequently within the framework of the adoption, within the framework of the instructions given prior to the submission of the applications. That many consultants worked on the projects and raised objections, rather they were within one or two other principled cases. It slowed down from this, I would say the most responsible... within the caretaker government, the think tank around the then minister did nothing but rather dealt with things he shouldn't have dealt with. After I stepped back in the Ministry, we had another meeting with the Association of Municipalities. We've determined that the way it's ranked will not be changed. Legal and other arguments are formally presented from the point of view of the process in which all this was carried out. Currently, the Fund of Agriculture finalises the consideration of its projects on the six lotts that have been made. The deadline I have formally submitted, as well as 4.1, Mrs. Bachvarova, to finalise this reception is by the end of July. In parallel, this period coincides with a requirement you know. It relates to the criteria for the conduct of public procurement in the view that the Commission in the Programme and in the Partnership Agreement has requirements for Bulgaria to unify the documents for the conduct of public procurement in order to avoid irregularities in the old programming period. I expect all municipal projects to be closed in the second half of July by the end of August. What we agreed with the Association of Municipalities is to withdraw the second reception that we had bet at the beginning of 2018 to be from 1 December so that municipalities can have an awareness of what they can apply for. We've posted a message on our page from this or last week. Any action from the second reception, the way in which the criteria will be examined, will be made public, including in agreement with the Association of Municipalities, who are the sole beneficiary of this measure, so that there is no ambiguity in one direction or another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u190	Thank you, dear Minister. About the line Professor Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u191	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues! Thanks for the answer. I hope that the July and August deadlines will be fulfilled, for the reason that municipalities at some point will not have enough time to implement the projects so that we do not fall into the situation that was in the first programming period. No conditions for publicity and transparency were provided at the first reception when preparing the projects, at least due to the fact that the Ordinance, which was in measure 7.2, was published seven days before the adoption of documents. During the reception itself there was again a change in the Regulation. Those who were familiar with these changes or with the preconditions may have prepared their projects well, but a large part of the municipalities could not manage within a month or two to prepare 3 million projects. EUR to meet the requirements of the Ordinance. It is good time for all municipalities to have the same information so that they can prepare quality projects and not have such objections as have been obtained. The objections were many times more than the projects that were ranked. I have two specific questions. The first is: is it possible as an organization of work, not that I give you advice, but the ranking to go along with the evaluation of the projects? Because the waste of time from October to December for ranking, then objections, examination it takes three or four months useful time during which projects can be considered. We can see he's going for a year in procedures. Secondly, how will the VAT issue be resolved? The first programming period had a solution. No municipality can afford to pay VAT. Will there be a solution to this question because municipalities will encounter it when signing the treaties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u192	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u193	Back and forth. VAT will again be covered by the central budget. There's a decree. At the moment, we have said about 2, nearly 3 million, as this year we will not have a large cost. They are bet on the central budget, not under the budget of the Fund for Agriculture. It's been a practice for a few years. I cannot agree with you that there has been an opaque view of both the Ordinance and its interpretation. To avoid any doubt, you can also see at the moment on the Ministry's website, and probably the Fund's, what is the new indicative schedule. For the new indicative timetable backwards we have given admission, order four weeks, then when the regulation is watched, public discussion, working groups of public discussion. So when discussing each regulation, there is enough publicity. And we are currently looking at these thematic working groups, which are widely represented by businesses and beneficiaries, stakeholders, all the regulations that are in this indicative timetable. So I wouldn't agree with the subject being framed and dealt with at the same time. I'll think about it, but I think it would be a problem, but I don't mind discussing it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. This ended the questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. Next are questions to the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov. Question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova about checks of all dams and facilities to them. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in recent years we have witnessed incidents with dams and facilities some of which have led to a fatal end for those living around them. The follow-up checks carried out in many cases have identified problems with water facilities and a lack of control over them. In your inauguration, you have undertaken intensive checks on dams and facilities. Regulatory changes are expected regarding the categorization of dams, the personalization of responsibility for maintenance and safe operation of the dams that currently have different owners. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what did the inspection show? How many dangerous facilities are there, and what measures will be taken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u196	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy, for an answer. Three minutes to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u197	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests. Mrs. Alexandrova, thank you for the question. It is extremely up-to-date and important. Within three minutes, I will try to provide absolutely complete information. From 1 January 2016, I am paying attention to the State Agency for Meteorological and Technical Supervision, I will call it the State Agency, carrying out observations of over 5400 dams, water sites. Since the beginning of 2017, the State Agency has carried out self-checks of 672 dams plus joint checks, which are with the district managers and municipalities. The total number is 798 pieces. 175 acts have been taken to establish administrative infringements. 917 prescriptions have been given for the removal of detected technical malfunctions on dam facilities. 41 penal decrees worth about 60 thousand were also issued. lv. Currently, only £6,000 has been paid. From them. The identified deficiencies are of different nature and scale and relate mainly to inoperative closed organs and mainly leaking overflows, subsidences, landslides, wet spots and others on the dams. These malfunction findings relate mainly to the small dams with land flooding. Such are 90% of the established dams as the majority of them are municipal property. For 59 dams that are in the worst technical condition are prescribed for the complete emptying and maintenance of the water level of the cat dead volume. In practice, these dams are temporarily not used and are decommissioned until a decision is taken on their future exploitation. From all checked to this date, from 2016, I am paying attention again, artificial water sites, dams and ponds have found technical malfunctions of a different scale along a total of 1153 dams. For all these 1153 dams, constant checks are carried out, 205 of them are dams in a heavier state that have technical violations and there is constant monitoring on them. What actions should we take? Firstly, amendments and additions to the Water Act and the Regulation on the conditions and procedures for carrying out technical and safe operation are currently being prepared. Changes are about defining parameters characterized by artificial aquatic objects as well as dams as well as their categorization by degree of danger. Another which we have undertaken next week we will meet with the National Association of Municipalities, where this is one of the main topics, as I repeat, once again, the dams are mainly owned by the municipalities. We need to see where funds can be found, as issuing penal decrees does not solve this problem. Together with them, we will talk about this. We've already had a meeting with representatives of several VUMs who can help as scientific circles... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming. ...about building a system for monitoring and prevention of dams, i.e. a system to monitor water levels, as well as possible deformations on dams. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u198	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Alexandrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am extremely pleased that this is one of the first issues you have dealt with since you are a minister and I believe that this time we will have a responsible attitude and conduct in your capacity as a minister to those objects that are important for our national security at the end of the day. So when you start carrying out this monitoring that you talked about it would be extremely useful for everyone, and I would like you to introduce us again to the results and to information about what you are doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u200	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. For the back, Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u201	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u202	I won't. We should thank the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. First question by Nina Mitkova about the increasing level of child aggression and its manifestations during the stay of children in educational institutions. Mrs. Mitkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u203	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister. My first question to you today relates to the rising level of child aggression and its manifestations during the residence of children in educational institutions. During the administration of the caretaker government, the interim minister Mr. Denkov presented a document on 10 April 2017, which is called the International Action Plan, the prevention of aggression and the strengthening of security in educational institutions. This plan has short-term, medium-term and long-term measures with an implementation horizon by the end of 2018. One of the measures that is affected in this Plan is the mandatory introduction of video surveillance in absolutely all educational institutions as one of the measures, as we all know, video surveillance has control functions on all of us and not accidentally many of the institutions introduce video surveillance because this has a preventive character. Also, the topic of video surveillance is up-to-date on the theme of the roads, so there is no doubt that if there is video surveillance and appropriate regulation for the proper use of the data from these security systems, it will be part of the effective measures so that we can make the school a more secure environment and reduce the bad news coming from this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u204	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mitkova. For an answer, the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. Here you are, Mr. Minister. Three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u205	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mitkova, Ministry of Education and Science through the Regional Managements of Education works specifically to resolve the cases of conflicts and aggressive behavior of individuals and students as well as to help methodologically the managements of schools and teachers to deal with conflicts and acts of aggression. In cases where assistance has been given to educational institutions and specific measures have been identified to address these negative trends, relevant positive results have also been achieved. Since April 2017, the Ministry of Education and Science in interaction with other government institutions and organizations related to children's policies has committed itself to implementing 22 measures - short-term and medium-term, embedded in an interinstitutional action plan for preventing aggression and strengthening security in educational institutions. At present, four measures have been implemented: an instruction of pedagogical specialists in kindergartens and schools on compulsory consultation and ways of interacting with a medical person in cases of an incident in educational institutions; a system of interaction between teachers, students and their personal physicians has been established. The measures were implemented jointly with the regional managements of education, regional health inspections and school directors. As a third measure, information has been prepared by the Social Assistance Agency for the providers of social services for children, which has been sent to all regional education departments for the provision of it to kindergartens and schools. Next, the fourth measure: through the regional managements of education of all schools are distributed posters provided by the State Agency for Child Protection in popularization of the National Telephone Line for Children 116 111. Such posters are also placed on the information boards in regional governments. By 30 June 2017, the State Agency for Child Protection will submit to the Ministry of Education and Science aggregated information on two other points related to the provision of information to kindergartens and schools for good interaction practices with parents who do not cooperate with pedagogical specialists to find joint solutions in the best interests of children, the preparation of information material in electronic format for the actions that teachers and students should take in cases of incidents and other critical situations. The provision and implementation of a security and video surveillance system in kindergartens and schools is enshrined in the mid-term measures of the plan by the end of 2018. In this regard, there are many additional meetings and discussions on the subject, as well as assessments of how this measure can contribute to reducing the level of aggression in educational institutions. The measures described in the plan will continue to be implemented and their effectiveness will be assessed and, if necessary, optimised in order to address severe cases of aggression. In general, we've stepped on the plan, implemented the measures in it. These measures are necessary, but they are not enough in themselves. The public school meeting has many factors that affect aggression. We hope that all the other policies and measures we are taking will also contribute to reducing aggression in schools. The educational institutions are only one side of the problem, the other is the family and social environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u206	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Mitkova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u207	Dear Minister, I'm glad to hear there's continuity. You are aware, obviously the plan is already being implemented. I hope you will not review and comment on the mandatory video surveillance, as the video surveillance is undoubtedly part of the control and prevention of bad behavior or violation of the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u208	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mitkova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u209	More like an addition to what I said. We have taken steps, as I mentioned, to instruct educational institutions. As the video surveillance and actions of educational institutions, when there is a problem in the school, are rather follow-up actions that we do not take, as the cases of aggression are numerous, we should work rather to prevent these cases. I don't question the video surveillance itself. It expands into many educational institutions. An argument caused how many cameras to be included in the classrooms and rooms in kindergartens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. A question again from Ms. Nina Mitkova about raising students' interest in school and school life and their motivated participation in it. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u211	Dear Minister, my second question to you today relates to the measures that you and your team will take to increase the interest in students' school and their motivated participation in school life. We are witnessing apathy and disinterest in much of the children because of many factors, some of which are not up-to-date and uncontemporary teaching material, also unup-to-date and uncontemporary teaching methods. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following specific questions: how ready is the Bulgarian education system, which is of a general educational nature, to be broken, flexible and to adapt to the modern needs coming from the environment in which we live and the world around us at all? It is also related to the first question of the issue of child aggression. I suppose you'll agree that the school environment largely forms the mentality and view of the world in children. If we don't start with the right measures from the school environment to deal with their behavior, I think we can't expect only family or the street to do what is necessary. My first specific question: would you accept and work on introducing thematic classes to teach children different things in accordance with their age and their psychophysical development, as well as their needs and information that they can and need to learn at their respective age? Do you allow early classes to have life and communication classes in multiethnic and multicultural environments, tolerance to differences and mutual assistance? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] To teach children also in the initial classes of health culture, motor culture, food culture, so that we do not talk later about obesity among children and many diseases that we have to deal with as a fact, but rather to have prevention and children have a high culture and attitude towards themselves. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think it would be appropriate for the upper classes to have...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u212	Mrs. Mitkova, get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u213	It would be appropriate to have classes such as purposefulness, sexual culture, teaching children emotional intelligence and dealing with the life that awaits them. Do you allow the introduction of electronic boards into the entire system of education in all schools so that we can help teachers teach their material more interestingly and intrigue more children?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u214	Let's let you develop the question as a line later. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Mitkova, you have raised a number of questions that require many topics to be addressed, many policies in the field of pre-school and school education. Training in pre-school and school education is carried out according to new state educational standards. The content in the new curriculum is updated and updated in connection with the acquisition of key competences adopted by the Preschool and School Education Act. With regard to the settlement of thematic hours, I inform you that in the implementation of the law, general and additional support for personal development is provided, which provides an appropriate physical, psychological and social environment for developing abilities and their skills in accordance with individual educational needs and supports their inclusion and participation in the community and school. The various types of activities included in the general and additional support shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the Ordinance on Inclusive Education. In addition to general and additional support, the different thematic classes shall be held at the class and interest activities within the full-time organisation of the school day. The framework requirements for different thematic classes are adopted in the state educational standard for civil, health, environmental and intercultural education. Regarding your question about the so-called teaching through experience the Ministry of Education and Science traditionally supports innovation in the educational process. Since 2009, he has implemented a National Programme to support the introduction of information and communication technologies. Last school year, 395 kindergartens were equipped with the technique you quoted. Many other innovative and technological components such as wireless internet access equipment, terminal and computer solutions, laptops and other portable devices and multimedia designers are also provided. The Ministry of Education and Science is doing everything possible to modernise kindergartens and schools with technological means. In relation to your third question, I inform you that covering tests in physical education and sports classes is intended to establish the degree of development of basic motor skills and achieving the necessary level of physical performance of students. The level is an accurate indicator of the general health status of the student in terms of his physical development and condition. The training and achievement of the expected results shall be harmonised with the acquisition of skills to support sustainable development and a healthy lifestyle and sport, a key competence adopted by art. 77, para. 1 of the Preschool and School Education Act. The introduction and implementation of the new training programmes on physical education and sport, which explicitly require the application of the studied educational content in game activity, I hope that we will assist in mastering the skills you have described throughout life. In addition, I would say that the new Preschool and School Education Act provides sufficient opportunities for innovation, for the freedom of teachers, in terms of teaching methods. Changes may be needed, additional adjustments to the regulation. You know that there are more than 180 projects approved by the innovation schools. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u216	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Mitkova for a cue, one minute for a cue, because you were speeding up time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u217	Dear Minister, I suppose you will agree with me that education is at the heart of the prosperity of a nation, and if we are taking account of increased illiteracy and increased illiteracy these days, you simply expect extremely much work and a lot of flexibility, because whatever investments we talk about will attract us to Bulgaria, whatever economy we want to revive if we do not have quality educated personnel, if we do not have quality educated labour, we will simply fail. Education is a huge task, and serious attention must be paid. Children should love knowledge and go to school willingly, and the school should make them the units of society that we all want them to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u218	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mitkova. Third issue by the MPs Donka Simeonova, Irena Atanasova and Veska Nencheva on the Ordinance on Inclusive Education. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u219	Dear Madam President, Members of Parliament, Dear Minister! By decree of the Council of Ministers of 4 November 2016 a Regulation on inclusive education was adopted. It was expected with much hope because it regulated the settlement of public relations to give inclusive education to children and students, such as the process of acceptance, awareness and support of the individuality of each child and, accordingly, the diversity of its needs. Unfortunately, the overall assessment of the results of its implementation is far from positive parents, teachers, representatives of institutions repeatedly, in various ways and with various means show their discontent. Severe bureaucratic procedures for the establishment of teams, for the development of plans, assessments, analyses, reports, letters, opinions, omissions, unnecessary repetitions, confusing circumstances and inaccuracies that make it difficult to implement the texts of the Ordinance, uncertain financial and human resources, an unregulated mechanism for interaction between institutions, unregulated teachers' rights, therefore, regulated obligations beyond their qualifications. The most essential, most disturbing.. the huge bureaucratic obligations not only deprive the teacher of time and energy for creativity, but they divert him from his main mission to be with his students to give them attention, knowledge and love. So please inform us: what conclusions does the Ministry of Education and Science draw about [[the President signals that time has run out]] the achievement of the objectives set out in the establishment of the Ordinance relating to the provision of inclusive education to children and students, as well as the activities of the institutions in this system of providing support for the personal development of children and students. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u220	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u221	Dear Mrs. Simeonova, Mrs. Anastasova, Ms. Nencheva! The inclusive education is a policy enshrined in the Preschool and School Education Act, which requires a new organization of work in a system.............................................................................................. In order to achieve a comprehensive institutional policy, a change in the environment and the way of work, approaches and methods of training is required. The Regulation adopted the state educational standard within the meaning of art. 22, para. 2, p. 7 of the Preschool and School Education Act. It extends and procedurally defined texts relating to inclusive education and support for the personal development of children and students, and regulates public relations related to the provision of inclusive education and the activities of the educational institution to provide support for the personal development of children and students. The additional support is still implemented mainly through the specialists of regional centres to support the inclusive education process. A total of over 16 805 children and students with special educational needs are provided additional support in the country. Taking into account the new realities and difficulties that accompany any change and taking into account the replacement of the Pedagogical College, a working group was established in the Ministry of Education and Science, which analyzes the implementation of the Ordinance from its entry into force and the opinions received from the regional departments of education, which summarize the opinions and proposals of the directors and teachers and other pedagogical specialists. They aimed at discussing the readiness of the system to implement the Ordinance and the need to refine certain provisions. Working meetings with focus groups of directors and teachers and other pedagogical specialists from the country, representatives of NGOs, experts from the regional managements of education began. The opinion expressed by the meetings held to change the Ordinance is related to reducing the administrative burden of the teams and supporting personal development, laying down clear regulations for parental participation and cooperation, precise regulation of interinstitutional interaction, determining the functions and responsibilities of pedagogical specialists in the process of inclusive education. The administrative burden, contrary to the Law on pre-school and school education texts, lack of mechanisms for the implementation of separate regulations, lack of specialists with different professional profiles, insufficient change in the organisation of the work of the educational and institutional environment, respectively training of children and students with different needs, is indicated as major difficulties in implementing the Ordinance. For this reason, the Ministry of Education and Science is beginning a procedure for writing a whole new regulation. There will be a presentation at the Ministry of the annual reports of regional education departments, as well as regional centres to support the process of inclusive education, which will analyse the implementation of activities to support the personal development of children and students laid down in the Ordinance. Currently, the Ministry is carrying out an analysis of all proposed changes aimed at optimizing and improving the Ordinance. If I have to sum up briefly, we also agree with your conclusions to a large extent from what has been said, by taking measures to write a whole new regulation, as I have told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u223	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! The hasty legislation gave us a new law on September 30, 2015, adopted by the Forty-third National Assembly. This law is the Preschool and School Education Act, which entered into force on 1 August 2016. Only a month before the new school year started without the necessary full set of regulations being drawn up. The school year started with the Preschool and School Education Act with only four ready-made regulations of the expected nineteen. The Regulation on inclusive education, which we are commenting on now, was adopted by a decree of the Council of Ministers only on 4 November 2016 and is in force from 11 November 2016, in the middle of the first period of school, shortly before Christmas break for the students, and it signs and regulates the opportunities for personal support and development of students and children. Mr. Minister, you and your team are monitoring this process, you are aware that all those working in the education system and directly involved in the Inclusive Education Regulation have conscientiously filled out a document after a document, after reference, a report after a report for seven months and continue. The work on excess paperwork and the lost hours in submitting another mandatory reference, another newly formed team in which teachers are included, takes away and steals from the time to be devoted to the development of the child and student. The work on this regulation has turned the teacher into the Bulgarian school and kindergarten from a teacher and educator into an administrator and clerk. And all of this after a strong negative reaction to the public discussion of the said regulation. If you have not noticed, in specialized sites and teacher forums [[the President signals that time has run out]] There were a lot of open letters from whole teachers' collectives. I'm done. Already at the end of the first difficult school year, after talks with teachers, directors and parents, students, we argue that the objectives of the Inclusive Education Regulation are not met. It not only optimizes common and affordable support in kindergartens and schools, but is frankly harmful to this activity, for the needs of children and students and at the moment it does not perform its mandatory efficiency due to the administrative chaos that was created. Thank you for creating working groups and focus groups to make a new regulation, but before that we want to discuss it and look at it here and then it will come into force. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u224	Thank you, dear Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u225	In fact, we have no contradictions regarding the conclusions. The only thing I might be able to add is that once we have a ready option.. Draft regulation, we will present it to the Committee on Education and Science. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to the Minister of Education and Science is from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev on assessment of the impact of the Law on pre-school and school education. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u227	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! So far, the questions you have been asked in the field of secondary education we have seen the problems are many, but always as some of the main problems are named regulations, but they are a consequence of the fact that the Law is hollow, there are gaps in it that need to be regulated precisely by these regulations. The law on pre-school and school education was submitted to the National Assembly without prior assessment of impact and without prior application of its norms, which required a number of forecasts of the results of its action to be made by the MPs during the discussion itself in the Parliamentary Committee on Education and Science. You remember that a number of the problems that we are now witnessing are already being warned about during the adoption of the Law that they will come out of precisely these regulations and the problems that they need to solve are not part of the Law. It's been over the first year, there's a lot of problems. We still don't really know what the new Law will lead to as a negative for the system. My question to you is: does the Ministry of Education and Science intend to assess the impact of the Preschool and School Education Act and when will it do so? Because problems are piling up, the resolution of many of them is questionable, including the regulations that colleagues in previous issues have said. The law began to function with only four out of the nineteen standards, others were acting on their feet. It has come to the point that a previous minister of yours has made a statement that the teachers will not rebel, we will not check whether the Law and the Rules are strictly respected. So it is very important to make this impact assessment. I'm interested in the investigation of this Law, and if not, when will it be done?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u229	Dear Mr. Mirchev, I would like to express my gratitude for the timely question asked about the assessment of the impact of the Law on pre-school and school education. Yes, it should be carried out in accordance with the scope regulation and the methodology for carrying out an impact assessment. In this sense, we also have the obligation, not only the intention. The law on pre-school and school education shall be partially effective from 1 August 2016, as well as a number of provisions on other dates. The entire Chapter 16 relating to the financed and the property shall be in force from 1 January 2017. According to § 24, para. 1 of the previous and final provisions of the Law, students who enter the first and fifth grade in the academic year 2016/2017, students who during the academic year 2017/2018, the academic year 2018/2019 and 2019/2020 are enrolled in the first, fifth and eighth grade, as well as students who during the academic year 2020/2021 are trained in the eighth grade, according to school and study plans and curricula established under the terms and conditions of this Law. The carrying out of the ex post evaluation is linked to the adoption by regulations of a number of state educational standards, the results of the implementation to which they should also be assessed. The transformation and translation in accordance with the new requirements of the institutions under way is also postponed over time by the transitional provisions of the Law. In this sense, in the case of practice, although in force, many of the important provisions of the Law will begin to be implemented gradually in the system of pre-school and school education. In addition, we should note that according to art. 34, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the scope and methodology for carrying out an impact assessment, the authority in whose competence is the implementation of the regulatory act or which traditionally proposes changes to it and carries out a follow-up assessment of the impact of the new laws, the Code and regulations of the Council of Ministers within five years of the entry into force. In conclusion, according to art. 37 of the Ordinance assessing the impact of the adoption and amendment of the regulatory act includes the following stages: definition of the scope and structure of the assessment, collection of data, including through consultation of stakeholders, thirdly, analysis of data collected, fourthly, evaluation and formulation of conclusions. The law on pre-school and school education regulates complex public relations also at present due to its phased application, and due to the phased entry into force of the regulations on its application, we are working on the collection of data that will be analysed for the purpose of an overall and objective assessment. On the basis of the above, the impact assessment will be carried out within the deadline cited, respecting those legislative texts and cooperation with all parties directly involved in implementing the legal provisions. In fact, the Law as a set of relations, procedures will be assessed in full according to the scope regulation and methodology for carrying out an impact assessment, but it is more important to evaluate its separate policies and informally, and based on the data collected with the necessary analytical tools. At all, strengthening the political function of the Ministry is one of my tasks. With regard to the attitude of law and regulations, much of the problems came from the legislation in so far as it is not in line with the spirit of the Law. As for a preliminary assessment, the bill, which was submitted by the previous National Assembly, largely stepped on the bill in which the Ministry of Education and Science worked since 2010. Then, first in 2011, a concept was presented, which was the basis for discussing the main points and the content of the Law as policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u230	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mirchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u231	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. You've quoted to me how the Law really enters into action. We all in the Commission know this, but this does not answer the question why did he not have an impact assessment when it was adopted? We are the country with a demographic disaster of the sharpest size in all of Europe. There are countries in Europe where a law without evaluation of demographic development is not even adopted. Although the Law entered gradually, it created a number of problems: students from the first grade started school without new textbooks, to remind; for students from the sixth and seventh grade dropped out whole periods of Bulgarian history; children with special educational needs were returned to be integrated into school, but there are schools that do not have the opportunity to participate in this integration. We are witnessing how there are schools where whole classes come out of class because of the fact that there is a child with special educational needs, to which the school itself cannot adapt and provide sufficient help. Teachers and directors are already swamped with paperwork. As we have said, all of this comes from the regulations that are governed by the Law, but the Law actually creates these problems, as these are long-term public relations that are not permitted in law where they should be, but are transferred to various sub-normative acts that can be changed in the morning, noon and evening. That is why we are attacking the 19 standard in the Constitutional Court, and I hope that it will soon rule on the subject, as our education system can no longer withstand this chaos. The problem is in the Law and therefore I hope you will really make an impact assessment and it will not be formal, because we should take into account the negatives of the new Preschool and School Education Act and make appropriate adjustments as the system is threatened by collapse. We've witnessed what happens in the news every day in the education system. And here I'll say again [[the President signals that time has run out]] : Apart from these problems related to education, the integration of children with special educational needs and so on, the educational content cannot fall from key periods for Bulgarian existence, from Bulgarian history! And this all arises precisely because of the lack of adequate impact assessment made in the adoption of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u232	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u233	I'm done, one sentence. Therefore, I ask that the impact assessment you are making is not formal, so that we can make changes to the relevant Law as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u234	Thank you. For the coat, Mr. Minister.......................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u235	Mr. Mirchev, you have addressed a number of issues, most of which are not so and only related to the Law, even with regulations. They are a constant issue before the Ministry, policies that we constantly need to evaluate and improve as such. Not only policies, but also activities, policy instruments. Yes, surely the Law in the period of introduction has led to some problems, but it seems that every process of change leads to such problems. On the other hand, the Law itself makes it possible to conduct a number of policies which at the stage of discussion were assessed as extremely useful and beneficial because, even before the Law was drawn, the Ministry was involved in numerous discussion formats on different topics, the conclusions from which they found projection in one or another provision of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u236	Thank you, Minister, for answering the question and for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev, the first of which is from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Georgi Svilenski, Stoyan Mirchev about buying new cars for the needs of the Ministry of Interior. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u237	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Today's question, which we are asking, concerns a topic which was discussed some time ago, not far, but largely consistent with the current policy of the Ministry of Management and, respectively, the Council of Ministers, namely the fight against road killings, the war on the roads. We are interested in whether the available equipment is in the necessary condition, whether it can perform its functions and information that we need concerning a public procurement, announced by your management in 2016, with which new cars were purchased? Then, after our research, it turns out that this order is also a framework agreement, not a one-time agreement, but a certain period of time. It became clear from the media that certain obstacles to their full use as road-controlled vehicles had arisen. And in this regard, Minister, I ask you to answer me whether the new vehicles purchased by the Ministry of Interior for operation with the available technical means for controlling the speed of movement and, if not, who is responsible for such non-compliance, as well as whether such compatibility is provided for in the public procurement for their purchase then, respectively, for the new cars that are about to appear in the Park of the Ministry of Interior, because it is very important what will happen as it is related to spending a very serious public resource? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u239	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Svilenski and Mr. Mirchev! Thank you for your question, because this gives me the opportunity to clarify to you and to the public an important topic, which you have highlighted yourself, is a priority for the work of the Ministry of Internal Affairs From the beginning, I want to make it clear to everyone that there are no obstacles in the activities of road police and control is not reduced, on the contrary, you see that we are taking the necessary action at all levels both as a government and as a parliamentary group of GERB. There have been amendments to the Roads Act, which yesterday, as I understand it, you accepted. I assure you that all our efforts are aimed at reducing the casualties and injuries along the way. That is, at the moment, all state institutions, in view of their respective competences, are working with priority on road safety, and our most important goal is less victims and injured on the road. Specifically on your subject. I've ordered an inspection, you must have heard in the media, the Department of Inspectorate, to establish how the public procurement procedures for the passenger cars you mentioned were carried out, about the integrated video surveillance system, which is inside, as well as about stationary portable speed control devices. The check hasn't finished yet, I checked the deadline today, by the way, I wrote it down July 7th. So I won't tell you the results of the inspection, the seventh of July will be done. Now they've given me some reference only, which is in the middle of the inspection. Control of road users continues to be carried out by employees, as we have so far, because we have only one number to remind you, with 148 vehicles equipped to shoot and report the speed of drivers mounted on the old cars. Apart from that, we have formed teams of the Road Police who carry out checks for the participants in the movement. These teams are using the new cars. As you know, we gave out the last ones very soon, and the employees' activities are filmed with video cameras mounted in the cars. We are about to purchase 84 more portable speed cameras, for 28 procedures it is announced, for the remaining 56 is to be declared, and these technical devices will not function in the cars, but outside them, placed on the trinog near the road lane. In this way, control will be provided for the speed of the teams using the new cars and portable cameras. They don't have to be tied to cars, I'm assured by experts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u240	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Svilensky, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u241	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I will start with what you have completed that the cameras that will be purchased or the control that takes place at the speed control of the road should not be tied to the cars. Maybe so, but as far as I know, it is written in the Law as to how it is done with cars equipped with the car. Doesn't write cars to carry cameras, but writes equipped with these means of measuring speed. But that is not the important thing, and it is not the important thing that you ordered about how the order itself was carried out. We, by raising the question, are putting it in terms of the consistency of the Ministry of Interior in fighting the victims on the road. Because within two years the 43rd National Assembly your predecessor Mrs. Bachvarova then stated that this is her priority.. that there will be a new Law on traffic on the roads and will take all measures objectively, and cameras, and cars to be purchased so that your employees can properly perform their duties on the road. And what do we witness only a year and a half after that? Ordered, purchased cars that cannot be used for traffic control. And that's become clear. When we asked the question, you said that within two or three days you were waiting for an answer from the Inspectorate and that's why we asked it so quickly, otherwise we might have waited until 7 July. The fact is, however, that the cars that have purchased 300 in number cannot and do not meet the requirements for road control. The fact is that when they were purchased, the Ministry of Interior had no idea at all to use them for traffic control. I ask this question about your common vision, about your common policy in combating road victims, which includes material and technical security. Because now you're going to buy another 300 cars, they're probably not going to be good for this thing either, and you're going to use these 300 cars to transport the cameras to trinogs. You understand that this is an absolutely ridiculous situation in European Bulgaria in 2017! Let's sit there, think about what it takes.100, 200, 300 cars, 100, 150, 200 cameras, but so that the two things talk to each other so that they can measure the road so that they don't leave impressions in the drivers for some manipulation and from there to ask the drivers to follow the rules, because here yesterday we accepted the law........................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u242	Time, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u243	Five more seconds! Everything you asked for, your parliament approved. We've given you the opportunity to work freely. Now let's make sure that you work properly, in the sense of filming, issuing acts, punishing intruders. But for this thing, we need a really consistent policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u244	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u245	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I know what Bachvarova promised as Minister, I was here too and I remember very well. These 278 cars she started under the Framework Agreement, and they are a fact. You are provoking me now, and perhaps I will formulate the more accurate question, or if I have failed, something that is a mix between yours and mine, is it true what you have been listening to, and I have listened, are these cars intended to have cameras inside that can photograph their speed intruders, or are they not foreseen?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u246	That's the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u247	I guess that's the point. I asked the same question after listening to the DMV colleagues' explanations. After that, if you were listening to their last statements, it was that it wasn't provided for in the order at all. There is a provision, which I saw from today's report, I am talking about the Inspector's intermediate that there was a way out for such cameras. This was written in the technical specification There are cameras inside that are shooting for possible corruption of police officers. There is an output for an external camera either external or inside or on the roof, it does not matter. But in the technical specification is written the exit. In fact, with the check I've ordered, I wanted to know where the truth is, as you ask me, and on the 7th we'll hear it. But let me just add one more thing to this. Yeah, it's important that they take pictures from inside maybe, but why not the trinogs? You say it's not European practice, it's not. It might turn out to be a better option...they don't just ride the trinogs, she's got a trunk and so on. Maybe it's a better option, I have no idea, so I don't want to discuss it anymore. But there is such a way out and they can be used. This is the error that remained in the public space.. can or cannot these cars. They can and the cameras will be outside and I told you the order. But I'm going to end up with some numbers that they gave me that are important, rather. Now what's going on with the mobile control cameras that are currently being used? Those tripods we're putting in are extra. For the first four months of this year, mobile cameras have recorded 68 415 violations. For the same period last year, they detected 59,728. I've calculated it, about 13% more. That is, despite this dispute or, how can I say, this ambiguity that has appeared, currently existing cameras with the same video surveillance result in slightly better results - 13% are, but slightly more. So I started with this.. the road control has not decreased, I will report to you and you will hear from the press or the question exactly what they said from the Inspectorate: whether there is guilt and who has. I also told the Prime Minister then that I would be uncompromising if someone had mistaken the technical specification, for example. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u248	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about current problems of the Ministry of Interior and policy for optimization of the Ministry. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ivanov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u249	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Today's question is caused by a number of circumstances, especially our concern for the reliability of the work of the Ministry of Interior officials in relation to the emerging shocks that we hear in the public domain. In general, we have considered that after the reform, the so-called Bachvarova reform in the Ministry of Interior in the period 2015 - 2016, obviously problems have accumulated leading to a disruption of the normal functioning of the Ministry. The disproportions created in the division of the responsibilities of the employees and, accordingly, the payment of employment have led to serious tensions among the employees of your office. Of course, all this is contrary to what has been stated by all participants in the last National Security Advisory Council on the need for more personnel in the security system and the increase in wages for workers in the Ministry of Interior and, above all, those who carry out patrol activities and investigative activities. At the same time, we also heard the requests of Finance Minister Goranov, who made his request to reduce the budget of this ministry by 300 million. lv. for the next year 2018, and to date we do not have an up-to-date position on these intentions of the Finance Ministry. Also, the lack of correspondence between the election commitments of your political party, from which you are broadcast as a minister, and the current management program of this majority, which you are now implementing, is an additional element of our concerns about the future Ministry of Interior and the Security Sector as a whole. In this regard, my question to you is: what policy will you conduct, Minister, to normalize the relations between the political leadership of the Ministry and the employees? How do you perceive and even perceive the reforms that have been carried out so far in the sector, which I have already quoted, and what measures will you primarily take to achieve optimal implementation of the main functions of the Ministry of Interior? Because this is an extremely important unit of the entire security segment, above all this concerns the security of Bulgarian citizens. You have taken on an extremely important post with extremely responsible functions, which will, of course, be very closely monitored by us as opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u250	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Ivanov! The reform carried out by the Ministry of Interior during the period 2015 - 2016 I suppose you mean it was discussed in detail in round table format, including here at the National Assembly with various specialists, with representatives of the trade union organizations in the Ministry of Interior, and with the Ministry's leadership at that time. Then, in the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, where I was a member, the majority of us united around the changes that would help the system to work more effectively in favour of the better security of our society. That was the idea, that's how we did it then, I remember very well. However, allow me to disagree with you that there are accumulated problems... as you have recorded.. leading to a breach, I quote verbatimly, the normal functioning of the Ministry of Interior. That's not the problem. The system does not function well. I do not agree. Yes, there are problems, but their neglect would lead to tension. My team and I have the will to avoid such a thing. We have a commitment to their resolution. The political and professional leadership of the Ministry of Interior we are united around specific objectives that will be laid down in the Government Management Program and with joint efforts I hope that with these measures that will be recorded there, we will implement the objectives that we have set for ourselves in the Ministry of Interior. As for the changes that have been made in recent years, I did not understand exactly which ones you mean, so I will point to some of them and perhaps refer to what I think you asked me. I would stress the following. First of all, I cannot fail to recall that the changes tabled in the Law on the Ministry of Interior by the Political Party GERB have returned the General Directorate for Combating Organized Crime to where it belongs. Because you, quite deliberately then, during your management, have interfered with the work of this directorate by transferring it to the DANS. With recent legal changes, we have expanded the activities of the General Directorate for Combating Organized Crime to counter the illegal transfer of individuals or groups of individuals across the border. It also created the possibility for DGBOP to work towards countering corruption crimes in state authorities and money laundering independently and jointly with other state authorities. Secondly, the reform has created the possibility of hiring persons working in labour relations who are given specific powers to carry out security in particular under the crossing regime in areas of the guarded premises of the Ministry of Interior or in carrying out assistance and monitoring of the state border. This helps and has helped greatly to reduce the deficit of personnel in the system. Next, the other structural change that was implemented is the passage of the Department of the Ministry of Interior to the State Commission on Information Security. I mention this change because the unloading of the system from its not-to-date features also helps to focus the financial and personnel resources in the basic activities that have been assigned to us by law. In your questioning, Mr. Ivanov, you also refer to the change in the needs of some of the employees who have not been assigned police functions, I suppose that was the focus in your question. They moved from the Ministry of Interior Act to the Labour Code and to the Civil Service Act. I assure you that disproportions, as you ask, do not exist in the distribution of responsibilities and the employees perform their duties fully, as they are legally appointed. To conclude, I would like to remind you that there has already been a meeting of the Social Partnership Council, a second meeting. All issues that excite employees in the third part about disproportions, especially in pay, all topics are discussed there together with trade unions, reported to me and we will make the relevant decisions. I'm certainly not going to run away from saying that, yes, there are such problems right in the pay and right after these changes. I began by saying that good steps were taken in the beginning. The way they say it, the intentions were good, the performance wasn't all that good. We're making it possible to change it. That'll be a fact soon. There's a task force assigned by my order. I can't say what the deadline is right now because I signed it yesterday, but so many things I sign. I guess the deadline is no more than a week by telling me what the proposals are, because they will not be simple, will not be changes in the law, in the legislation, but will be other changes to equalise or at least correct this imbalance, again I say, not in the responsibilities, but in the pay of some of the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u252	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Mr. Ivanov, come in for two supplementary questions within a total of two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u253	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I really expected to hear from you. a more comprehensive answer to the question asked, especially your assessment of the so-called Bachvarova Reform. Just to remind you that a constitutional case is currently under way in some of the adopted texts with the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. Let me remind you that here, in a hearing of your predecessor, Minister of Service Uzunov, the so-called "reform Bachvarova" was called "proval." We're interested in how the dialogue is going between the trade unions and the Ministry right now, because it's coming up with conflicting information. On the one hand, it turns out that a meeting between your Deputy Minister and the trade unions has reached an agreement on certain things. Then you go out and disprove them. We don't know who to trust anymore. I couldn't understand from your answer what was happening and why it was the approach that forced the hiring of retired ministry employees. They were released. There was some sort of chaos. What is the contentment of the employees also do not know. You know, it hasn't been given in three years. You know the conditions people work on the border, the ones who work on duty there. You know there's no overtime payment. We are more excited about these things because they largely create conditions for the abnormal functioning of the Ministry. My two additional questions are: will there be an increase in the salaries of the Ministry of Interior employees and when? Will there be a new law on the Ministry of Interior, as it was announced, that there was such an agreement between trade unions and political leadership? You then disproved him. When will there be such a thing? In general, what is your opinion on all the issues that I have now put to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u254	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u255	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, the questions you specifically asked me, as per the regulations, will there be an increase in wages, the answer is yes, specifically.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u256	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u257	You're gonna ask me when and how many. I won't be able to answer that right now. Will there be a new Homeland Security Act? No, there will be amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act. You mention the Bachvarova Reform, I don't know why you call it that, you and your colleagues. I don't know if you're starting to call it that to make it famous. Rather, this is the reform of another minister before it. That's where it started. If you don't remember, I can remind you. We're waiting for the verdict of the court here you're right. Whatever the court decides, that's what we'll do next. You're asking how the union dialogue is going. In my opinion, it goes normally, with a slight disrespect on their part, because inside we understand one thing, then they come out and the press tells us things that we didn't negotiate to the Social Partnership Council. I think we'll find a good tone. At first, we wander around until we're clear. I read the rules, I read what the law says. There's a whole chapter on union work. I read the rules. It says that they are the advisory body of the Minister of the Interior. That's what I asked them: what we agree on inside, we are on one side, everyone in the Ministry of Interior, including the trade unions, on the other side are the bad guys, the ones who break the rules and the laws, and there's no reason to look inside contradictions before we decide this, the other. Let's make people outside say, "Yes, they're very good now, let's raise their wages! Look at the way the cops look. Then it'll be easy to raise wages. I'm sure you'll vote for that, too. Your pleasure. First, though, to thank you: the questions are very good. On the same subject, I wake up with them and go to bed with them. You have mentioned the pleasure of three, four years has not been given to them. It's the first time there is now. I said the warehouses are full. No, the warehouses weren't completely filled, they were filled with winter clothes. But the summer ones aren't so far. Yes, but when there were no clothes at all for four years, whether the winter or summer will come first, the important thing is that the directorate that does public procurement finally works well and starts going into the warehouse or the store in Simeonovo, the clothes that people have been waiting for a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u258	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, please come in for consideration of the Minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u259	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I consider your response as some form of desire on your part to improve the working conditions of the employees, especially those as you say they work on the ground. We certainly did not receive fully satisfying and complete answers. What the trade unions have requested, because they are ultimately expressers of the will of the system workers, does not give the necessary satisfaction to the answers asked. This gives us concerns that further destabilization of the system could occur, which will have largely unpredictable consequences. We would call such a thing irresponsibility and it is an understatement and bearing all the signs of stately conduct. This is becoming even more worrying at the moment when Bulgaria is going to have the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, where a destabilized Ministry of Interior will be a bad attestation in front of our European partners. It is no less worrying that inaction, although I hope there is none, and that what you are talking about will happen in a very short period of time before the beginning of our Presidency, because issues of this type will not be delayed on our part, and we will not be idle, it will lead to a lack of guarantees to ensure that citizens' needs are protected. It is your priority and the Ministry's priority task to ensure the proper functioning of the internal security and public order system which ensures respect for the personal rights and the privacy of citizens. Among such scales of domestic crime that depopulate entire regions, we do not see any real policy offering to rid us of this situation. Mr. Minister, trust us, we will be extremely far-reaching in this direction. We will follow very closely from now on the actions of the political leadership of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. There is a question from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev on the policies of the Ministry of Interior for prevention and countering domestic and conventional crime in Pleven district. Mr. Burgeev, you're welcome to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u261	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, my question is about the policy of the Ministry of Interior for preventing and countering domestic and conventional crime in Pleven region. After frequent meetings in the settlements of my region, some of the most pressing problems for local people in view of the season and the upcoming harvest of agricultural crops are concerns for farmers about the preservation and recovery of their production, home thefts and raids, including the attacks and robberies of elderly people, the the theft of animals and the already collected agricultural production. In the context of the above, my question to you is as follows: what is the policy of the Ministry of Interior, what measures and events will it include to protect the movable and immovable property of the inhabitants of Pleven region and the harvest of farmers? Do you foresee actions to prevent and cross domestic and conventional crime in this region? Is there a strategy to build a systematic approach to countering domestic crime? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u262	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u263	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burdzhev, I would like to stress that three groups of people who are permanently engaged in the theft and robbery of small towns in the Pleven region have been neutralized for the first five months of this year. Stubborn! In particular, we have a systematic approach to countering conventional crime, as is known, and not only in Pleven district. Measures relating to prevention, separately and to the crossing of this type of criminal activity, are part of the systemic approach applied by police officers. A functional plan with various events has been drawn up for the territory of Pleven district. On the basis of this plan, in all district governments in the territory of the Regional Directorate, plans have been developed to combat crime, protect public order and fire safety in the recovery of agricultural production, as well. The plans are based on an analysis of the operational situation since 2016. This is always done. This is analyzed the previous year, and include the reasons and conditions which create prerequisites for criminal offences. I will present to your attention some of the measures, because they are quite included in the plan: First of all, the police presence on the territory of the settlements with increased levels of crime, including by changing working hours of employees from our territorial structures. Secondly, the employees designated to work on the specific line of activity carry out a continuous and coordinated analysis of the criminal offences and, in view of the conclusions reached, organise divisions of the security and operational staff. Next, there is a joint activity of the employees of the Regional Directorate together with employees of the Regional Gendarmerie Management Pleven, and in the border district governments in the region and with the Border Police Department of Somovit. We do not underestimate the interaction with the local authorities and therefore there are regular meetings with the mayors of the settlements in Pleven district. Police officers are also actively involved in the work of local public and security committees in the municipalities, according to signed agreements relating to the fight against crime and the protection of public order. In addition, joint events are held in partnership with employees of the Social Assistance Directorate, focusing on the most vulnerable groups of the population. Employees from co-ordinating structures at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Pleven participate in meetings of the Regional Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, which discuss topics concerning joint actions on implementation of the Strategy of Pleven for Roma Integration 2013 - 2020. There is such a strategy. Interaction with representatives of security companies in the field is also an important part of the measures that are being implemented. Periodic meetings shall be held with a view to exchanging information on the state of the operational situation. In this regard, the plans for 2017 for interaction between district governments and security companies, with out-of-date response teams, were updated in the settlements with high levels of crime. As regards the crimes committed by minors, I inform you that an organisation of work has been established which concerns the preventive activity of the employees of the Departments of Children's Pedagogical Room. Some of them are precisely those who commit such crimes and agricultural production. And at the end of my presentation, I would like to remind you that it is not only the organization of police officers' work that affects the levels of conventional or domestic crime. There are a number of factors that could help to commit a crime, or the opposite, to help prevent it. The order of Art. 66, para. 2 of the Ministry of Interior Act allows employees to signal the various institutions that have competence to remedy a problem in order to be able to react to its removal. As an example, I can point to the lack of illumination of certain streets or parks, which could be a prerequisite for committing a crime. Therefore, in addition to all that has been said so far, where necessary, police officers shall send notice to the competent authorities to take measures to address the causes and conditions that will contribute to future crimes. In conclusion, in order to increase the sense of security among the population, periodically and jointly with local authorities, police and junior police inspectors hold meetings with lonely elderly people and victims of crime. Last but not least, I would like to emphasise that regular working meetings are also taking place with the prosecution in order to identify joint measures to counter conventional and domestic crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u264	Thank you, Mr. Radev. Please come up with two supplementary questions, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u265	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues! Dear Minister, you have answered some of the preliminary questions that I had asked myself, but there are some things that I would like to ask you in particular: is there an analysis based on the actual state of the criminogenic environment for planning specific measures for 2017, because what I understand is that it is only taken for a database of previous year 2016? Is technical equipment necessary for the employees and what is the lack of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Pleven? And the last supplementary question: are you familiar with the vicious practice of hurting citizens to be persuaded not to submit application materials? And you, as Minister, what are you going to do about her termination? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u266	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u267	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Burgeev, not only what happened in 2016, of course, the criminogenic situation is taken into account, and not only the criminogenic, criminal and previous years. But the last one is most important if there are any changes in it. I can't tell you right now, but there are definitely policemen on the field. We therefore have written in the program 1,000 police officers to be appointed this year by this incomplete or incomplete state of the Ministry of Interior, which in different forms to be more visible and to visit the settlements where there is a need. That's how I'd answer. I can specifically check exactly how many are in the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. I couldn't hear the second question, if you could tell me what it was about?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u268	Are they convinced to withdraw...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u269	Application materials.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u270	Victims to be persuaded not to submit application materials?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u271	Yeah, I get it. Thank you. If we convinced them that was it, I needed the verb. I don't have that information. At least there's no such signal to me, and I hope that's not some rumor to convince the cops. I hope not! I, like you, am a citizen, and I would be very worried if there was such a thing. And believe me, I answer you directly: I will take very strict measures, literally with dismissal, if there is such a thing. If there are any, you, if you have signals, come in, send them, let them reach the Ministry of Interior and personally to me. And just one accent, because your question is more general, today you are asking me questions that are relevant and I am interested. I just want to remind you, I will recall it very often, we will not be able to keep Pleven's harvest, not just her. We won't be able to deal with crime either. And no government can handle it. Not only in Bulgaria. But we have to limit it. And I'm always asking, and I'm addressing you, and I'm saying it on the microphones, and the citizens need to get involved. They have to give signals. We need to learn that we all need to be very careful about what is happening around us and to refer to those who we expect to help us......................the Ministry of Interior if it comes to crimes or violation of the law. Without that, not 50 grand, and 100,000 to become the Ministry of Interior, we can't make it anywhere, let alone every harvest will be kept. Your signal and question is very good. I said we're doing what we can with this number, but I'm talking to everyone who can help with a signal, with information that something's going on somewhere. I'm a witness to such signals. I've given examples of this tribune. This helps very much the employees of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u272	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in for consideration, Mr. Burgeev, according to the minister's answers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u273	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, I note that you have recently managed the Ministry of Interior and in depth you are familiar with the factual situation by districts and by units, but I would like you to be a little more precise next time. It is clear that there is an incompetence in Pleven, especially with those law enforcement officers who are on the field. It is clear that this is a region with economically debilitating functions in which unemployment is growing and, in parallel, crime. This for signals is good, as a thesis, as a statement is good. Not every citizen can give you a specific signal. And we can't explain that to elderly people who are being bullied and raided every day. For example, in Dolni Dubnik Municipality these are Petarnitsa, Birkach, other sensitive zones............................................................................................... There's too many of them. I'll pass. Last night, I met with information about a double, severe, brutal murder in the village of Gigen on the territory of the municipality of Gulyantsi. Cooperate, get law enforcement officers to work. The previous colleague said it "requirement of labor, assembly of the state and more effective work." Stop administrative changes to laws and internal rules that only reduce the specific work and the results of the field, as well as the feeling in people that they have security, and that they can do other daily things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u274	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. The last question to Minister Radev and in general about today's parliamentary control is from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov about the measures the Ministry of Interior is taking to address the increased domestic crime in the region of Novi Iskar, Sofia Municipality. You have the floor, dear Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u275	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is related, by the way, to the question of my colleague Stefan Burgeev. The residents of the district of New Iskar are concerned about what has been happening in the last month in the settlements, namely the frequent attacks on property. Despite numerous complaints by citizens, there are no adequate measures taken by the authorities to apprehend offenders, not to mention prevention. Only 17 km from the center of Sofia are in martial law and are forced to organize themselves to protect their property and defend themselves against thieves. I don't think this is an adequate solution to the problems. They are determined to uphold their right to a peaceful life and a normal existence. They are even determined to take extreme measures through protests to provoke the attention and interference of the responsible state authorities to deal with the problem. There were even reports on TV on bTV on these issues. Several protests have already taken place. My question to you is: what measures will be taken sooner, quickly, to resolve the problem? It is obvious that there is a systemic problem, and it is not from yesterday and today, but from earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u276	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u277	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, there are no measures on the part of the Ministry of Interior......................................................... sounded.................................................................................... from the Police statistics show that for the first five months of the year there is no increase in the number of crimes committed compared to the same period of last year in the territory of the New Iskar. One of the two is not true, the truth could be in the middle. The state of public order in the area is calm. This may not be the case through your eyes. Compared to other areas compared to crime in the country, it is. The actions of police officers in the area are effective and this is what the fact is that at the beginning of this month there are detained perpetrators of the most frequent thefts in the area. Also found was the person who bought from the perpetrators the stolen belongings of the citizens, and a search was carried out in his home. I didn't get a note here. I found out he even lives in my neighborhood. Where he steals where he takes them and sells them. This man, who has been harassing the citizens of the area for a long time, has apparently been captured. The measures taken by employees to counter crime in the region include daily monitoring of the security environment, enhanced flexible allocation of forces. According to the data from the interactive map, you know that there is such a map, the forces have been distributed to ours, in your area or in another area, if there is any greater setting of circumstances, greater crimes or more frequent at least. Everyday meetings with the mayors of the settlements living in the territory..................... from them we receive information and identify additional measures. Check it out, you're a MP. See if the police meet with the mayor, for example, in the area. You have the authority. The implementation of special police operations covering the period of the active part of the day. The analysis of the data shows that in the five months of this year, 84 crimes have been committed on the territory of the area of the area of the area of the city of New Iskar, with approximately 50% of them being the theft of private homes and of citizens. They are particularly vulnerable, by memory, 12 fork zones there are concentrated forces and there we are trying to stop those who steal and harass the population. I'm not gonna add the other events they wrote me here. A moment ago, you yourself said that your question and my answer are, of course, related to your colleague's previous question. All of this is done methodically, according to the rules of the police, which do not act differently than other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u278	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u279	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues! I cannot fully agree with what you have said that the perpetrators have been found, because in recent days, I have found that there have been cases of theft, abuse of people's property. Now I would like to present you with a petition with an open letter to the residents of the New Iskar "They are over 200 signatures, asking you to take him to you and urgently take action and resolve their problem. With regard to the area, you should know that 34 thousand people live in the area of New Iskar. This is the largest territory area in Sofia. They're not villa zones. They're 12 villages. And in this large territory, 12 villages, we have four police officers in charge of solving the crimes, and one patrol car, and now I understand that two more have been sent. The person in charge of the precinct in the district of Kurilo. The municipality of Novi Iskar can be found there twice a week only, i.e. there is no permanent duty in the area, in the police station. I think there's something you can do, and I hope you solve their problem quickly. It's important. I want to help. Thank you. [[National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov gives Minister Valentin Radev the open letter with the signature.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u280	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, will you take advantage of your right to dodge? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Member, I will take advantage of the right of the duplicate just out of respect for you, because I skipped a lot of data, I didn't tell you. Of course, I know that there are 12 villages, 12 hard-to-reach areas, 230 thousand acres of area, that there are 30,000 people, as I said, and so on. But what you're saying is that there are only two or one of them isn't there, you understand it's not the only area in Sofia? These 50,000 people, half of whom are policemen who are on the field, we distribute them where there are the most crimes. Apparently, the co-workers thought so. You give me a signature, I'll check it out. I will further check that this statistic, which I have been given, is not quite correct based on what you are giving me, you are a Member of the National Assembly, I believe you. But I just want to pay attention to this, and to everyone who is watching us right now, we are trying and making it possible with these powers and funds throughout the country. At the moment there is a tourist season, we redirected forces to the sea in Burgas because there are the most violations of the law. I hope we don't weaken the territory here. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're doing. If you saw someone who wasn't there somewhere, it probably should have been, but it's being rerouted somewhere else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-23.u282	Thank you, Minister, for participating in today's parliamentary control. To you, fellow MPs, also, of the administration, of the media representatives, who have reflected today's plenary day. We've run out of schedule for today. The next plenary session on 28 June 2017, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
