ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u1	Good afternoon, everyone. Let's wish us good work today. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I see he's having a great mood today. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Programme for the period 29 November 2017. - 1 December 2017: 1. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importers: Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 November 2017. 2. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions. Importer: Menda Stoyanova on 13 November 2017 and adopted the first vote on 22 November 2017. 3. Second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018. Importer: Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017 and adopted at first vote on 8 November 2017. 4. Second vote on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018. Importer: Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017 and adopted at first vote on 8 November 2017. 5. Second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. Importer: Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017 and adopted at first vote on 9 November 2017. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Exporters: Margarita Nikolova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2017 Point 1 for Friday, 1 December 2017 7. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the proposed National Assembly Work Programme. Vote 180 MPs: 128, none, abstention 52. The proposal for the National Assembly's Work Programme this week has been adopted. Proposal for inclusion on the agenda on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: On 23 November 2017, at a meeting of the Commission for Control of Security Services and the implementation and use of specialised intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, the Report of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence means for the activities carried out in 2016 was heard and adopted. At the same meeting, the President of the National Bureau Mr. Boyko Rashkov confirmed his statement from August 2017 that there was an uncontrolled wiretap of magistrates, politicians and journalists. Other disturbing facts and circumstances of the Report on its action have also been identified. In view of the above, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we propose to hold a hearing, in closed session of the National Assembly, of the President of the National Bureau for Control of Specialized Intelligence means Mr. Boyko Rashkov. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria, we propose that the hearing be included as a first point in the National Assembly's programme for the period 29 November 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Slavcho Velkov and Philip Popov Who's going to justify the offer? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, as you have read our proposal on the grounds of art. Art. 113, in conjunction with art. 53, para. 3, this concerns really disturbing data and facts, and it was exported by the President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence as early as August 2017. At this meeting of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means, the Chairman of the Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence means Mr. Boyko Rashkov confirmed in this statement that there were unauthorized wiretaps of journalists, magistrates and politicians. There have also been other disturbing findings in the Bureau Report in question, in view of which we propose that this item be included on the agenda as item one in today's programme. We have made this proposal with a view to the importance of these facts and circumstances which have been exported precisely by the President of this Special Intelligence Control Bureau and with a view to protecting the rule of law and the principles of legal order and regulation or non-regulation for the use and application of special intelligence means. We offer and hope that you will support it, because this is indeed about startling, repeating, startling facts and circumstances exported by no one, namely the President of the Bureau of Special Intelligence Control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. This point was discussed at the Conference of Presidents................................................................. to Bulgaria........................................................................................................................................................................................ There was a proposal by the Conference of Presidents next week to see the report in closed session. From the following proposal of Mr. Popov, I will put their proposal to the vote. Mr. Lazarov, you're welcome to make a counteroffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u4	Madam President, last week, Thursday, was the meeting of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence resources. Yes, these questions were asked to Mr. Rashkov. I regret that the answers do not meet the expectations of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. I suggest, since we are about to review the Report of the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control, that it be held in a closed session and that these questions be put again. Ah, there will be time, in the meantime, when the transcript of this meeting comes out, for the colleagues to read it once more, so I suggest that, in the coming days, by looking at the Report, we should look at it anyway, at the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence, that it be held in a closed session, that colleagues once again put their questions and not accept the proposed point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal of Mr. Slavcho Velkov and Mr. Philip Popov for inclusion on the agenda the proposal made under art. 53, para. 3. They voted 199 MPs: 98 against 78, abstention 23. The proposal is not accepted, and with this the item will not enter into today's agenda. I will not put to the vote Mr. Lazarov's proposal because it automatically becomes valid. Laws and draft decisions entered into force from 22 to 28 November 2017: - A bill to amend the Law on State Fees. Importers: Mikhail Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead; - Draft decision for the establishment of a temporary committee for establishing facts and circumstances related to the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. Importers are Atanas Petrov and a group of MPs; - A bill to amend the Law on the Film Industry. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead; - Draft Decision on the adoption of the position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, January 1, 2018 Proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will be looked at; - A bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Convention on Munitions and the Convention prohibiting the use, storage, production and transfer of anti-personnel mines for their destruction. The proposal is from the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Defence shall lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Feed. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Agriculture, Food and Forestry is the lead. Message: The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Maya Manolova has submitted to the National Assembly on 24 November 2017, with an introduction to the National Assembly. No 739-02-7, Opinion on the Draft Budget Bill of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018, No 702-01-40, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 October 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was submitted to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Health and the National Representatives of their e-mails. On 28 November 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 28 November 2017 to 25 November 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 The material is provided by a resolution of the President of the National Assembly of the parliamentary groups and the MPs of their e-mails. On 22 November 2017, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the National Assembly received a Report on the implementation of the Programme Budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the half-year of 2017 and a reference on the expenditure incurred on the areas and policies and budgetary programmes of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the half-year of 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the materials were provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Foreign Policy Committee and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. Who's gonna introduce us to the report? Mr. Gechev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, I am doing a procedure for admission in the hall of Lozana Vassileva.. Deputy Minister, and Tsvetomira Staykova Director of the Directorate of Rural Development.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u7	Please admittance mode. Vote 168 MPs: 162, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guests. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u8	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Law to support farmers, No 754-01-79, submitted by National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 15 November 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 22 November 2017, discussing the quoted bill. The meeting of the committee was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Rumen Porozhanov The bill and its motives were presented by Stanislava Stoyanova. The draft is related to the implementation of investment measures by the Rural Development Programme (RDP) through the Integrated System for Management and Monitoring of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds (EIF) under the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act (ZUSIF). In this regard, it is proposed that the production of compensation measures on an area related to afforestation, agri-environment and climate, organic farming, Natura 2000, disadvantaged areas and animal welfare be carried out through the SPC. The productions of investment measures and sub-measures will already be carried out through ISU. The draft proposals under these measures shall be subject to prior evaluation where the total amount of the financial assistance applied for exceeds the budget for the respective period of admission. The criteria and procedures for carrying out the evaluation and classification will be laid down in the application guidelines. Within one week of the publication of the classification, objections may be submitted, which will be considered by a special committee. The deadline for ruling on objections shall be two weeks. On the basis of the evaluation carried out and the ruling on the objections submitted, the ex ante evaluation committee will draw up a list of draft proposals on which the aid applied for does not exceed by more than 30% the budget allocated for the respective period of admission, including those with the same number of points. A separate list shall be drawn up for the other project proposals. A selection procedure will be carried out under the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Fund Management Act for project proposals from the first list until up to 110 per cent of the budget is reached. Before ranking and with a residual budget of up to 110 per cent, an evaluation of the draft proposals from the second list will be carried out up to 110 per cent of the budget. A decision refusing to grant grant shall be issued for all other project proposals. As regards the measures under which the proceedings are carried out by means of ISU, the Transitional and Final Provisions provide that, by the expiry of the monitoring period, the administrative procedures under them are to be completed in the current order. Applicants with applications already submitted for which no order of approval or refusal has been issued may request a transfer of their application within a subsequent period of admission. The State Fund will also be able to use the ISAC for their administration. For preliminary costs eligible for activities prior to the submission of the project proposal, for measures and sub-measures implemented by ISU, candidates for support that are not contracting entities under the Public Procurement Act should apply the specific rules for determining the contractor of Chapter 4 of the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act. The already agreed activities will be eligible under the conditions laid down in the application guidelines. The terms and conditions of payment, reduction or refusal of payment or withdrawal of the financial assistance paid for the measures and sub-measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 should be settled within two months by a regulation. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, it was noted that it would be impossible to meet the two-week period for considering the objections to the preliminary assessment and classification and that the procedure was inefficient. They said they would refrain from supporting the Bill, but they would make proposals between first and second readings. The United patriots' parliamentary group supported the bill, noting that the deadlines for submitting objections and for their consideration should be refined. The DPS parliamentary group said they would support the Bill at first reading. From the parliamentary group of GERB stated readiness between the first and second reading of the Bill the deadlines to be refined. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 12 votes for the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, No 754-01-79, submitted by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 November 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u9	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Will an importer's opinion of the Bill be presented? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention, I will present the reasons for the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act: The draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act provides: 1. The introduction of texts relating to proceedings carried out through the ISUN before the Managing Authority or the State Fund on the basis of the following provisions: - Art. 15 of Regulation 1303/2013, according to which the Partnership Agreement must have arrangements to ensure the effective implementation of the ESI Funds, including an assessment of existing electronic data exchange systems and a summary of the actions planned to enable the full exchange of information between beneficiaries and bodies responsible for managing and controlling programmes to be carried out through electronic data exchange; - T. 3 of Annex 1 to Regulation 1303/2013, according to which the Member States and the managing authorities responsible for the implementation of the ESI Funds should work closely together in the preparation, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the Partnership Agreement and programmes; - Art. 66 of Regulation 1305/2013, under which the Managing Authority is responsible for managing and implementing the programme in an efficient, efficient and correct manner, and in particular to ensure that there is an appropriate secure electronic system to record, maintain, manage and report statistical information on the programme and its implementation required for monitoring and evaluation purposes, and in particular information required to monitor progress towards the objectives and priorities set; - Art. 70 of Regulation 1305/2013, according to which key information on the implementation of the programme, for each operation selected for funding and for completed operations necessary for monitoring and evaluation, including key information on each beneficiary and project, is recorded and stored electronically; - Art. 46 of Implementing Regulation No 809/2014, according to which Member States provide for appropriate procedures for the submission of applications for support, payment claims and other declarations concerning rural development measures that are not related to areas and animals; - T. 9 of the preamble to Regulation No 809/2014 laying down the general framework for the introduction of simplified procedures in the context of the exchange of information between the beneficiary and national authorities. This framework should in particular provide for the use of electronic means; - Art. 11 of Implementing Regulation No 809/2014, under which Member States may authorise or require all communications from both the beneficiary to the authorities and vice versa to be transmitted electronically. 2. The introduction of texts for work through the SPC on the basis of: - Art. 67 of Regulation No 1306/2013, according to which each Member State establishes and implements a administration system...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u11	One moment, Mrs. Stoyanova. Honourable Members, may I have some silence in this Chamber, because there is really no way to read the reasons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u12	...a administration and control system (s) that an integrated system applies to support schemes listed in Annex I to Regulation No 1307/2013 and to the support provided in accordance with art. 21 (1) (a) and (6) and Articles 28) - Art. 6 of Regulation 1305/2013, according to which the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development operates in the Member States through rural development programmes. In the Bulgarian Rural Development Programme, Section 9.2 "Management and coordination" is regulated that the investment measures of the programme are expected to be managed through IUN 2020 and the processes used to manage the funds under the operational programmes will be reflected in the system. This will enable ongoing information to be obtained to monitor the Rural Development Programme from the Central Coordination Unit. In addition, access to information in the EMU of the general public will help improve the publicity and transparency of the Rural Development Programme and will enable wider public monitoring of the Programme. 3. The introduction of a requirement to issue a regulation of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry determining a reduction or refusal to pay or to withdraw the financial assistance paid on the basis of: - Implementing Regulation No 908/2014 laying down specific rules on financial management, management of accounts, rules on checks, collateral and transparency carried out by accredited Paying Agencies; - Art. Art. 5 and art. 6 of Regulation 809/2014, which lays down the application of reductions, refusals, withdrawals and penalties and their consistency under each direct payment scheme or rural development measure. 4. The introduction of texts for a decision by the Executive Director for financial correction shall be carried out on the basis of art. 35 of Regulation 640/2014, which introduces special provisions on measures to support rural development, including the imposition of financial corrections. 5. The introduction of texts relating to the pre-selection of draft proposals on investment measures and sub-measures from the Rural Development Programme and the texts relating to the submission and examination of objections to the pre-selection carried out in accordance with the requirements of: - Art. 49 of Regulation 1305/2013, according to which the Managing Authority of the Rural Development Programme lays down criteria for selection of operations after consulting the Monitoring Committee. The selection criteria aim to ensure equal treatment of applicants, better use of financial resources and targeting of measures in accordance with the Union's rural development priorities; - Art. 66 of Regulation 1305/2013, under which the Managing Authority is responsible for managing and implementing the Programme in an efficient, efficient and correct manner and in cases where it has delegated part of its functions to another authority; - Art. 74 of Regulation 1303/2013, according to which Member States ensure that there is an effective framework for dealing with complaints concerning the ESI Funds. Member States shall comply with their institutional and legal framework for the scope, rules and procedures relating to those provisions. The texts proposed in the Agricultural Support Act will create conditions and ensure effective and efficient management of the Rural Development Programme in order to meet the intermediate objectives set out in the Programme to be implemented at the end of 2018 as required by Regulation 1303/2013. 22 of that Regulation, 6% of the value of the Rural Development Programme will be lost in the absence of the intermediate targets. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate on the submitted bill. Come in for a statement, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This is the second attempt to amend the Agricultural Aid Act, and we have to take into account that, unlike the first time the Bill did not pass in the Chamber, the importers have now limited themselves mainly on the clarification of some of the texts and in the directions that are important from now on the Programme to work. One part of the proposals is indisputable and they are mostly linked to the fact that investment measures and projects under the Rural Development Programme must be managed through the system of ISU, which includes all other operational programmes and which creates conditions for significantly greater publicity in terms of what projects are adopted and what their time movement is, respectively. The possibility of control is also preserved through the current administration and control system, i.e. the SPC. So much for the positive directions in changing the bill. Another part of the proposed changes we absolutely cannot accept and are against. It is about the signed procedure for preliminary ranking of the projects. It will take place on two levels. First level.. within a commission of the State Fund...................................................................................................... On the basis of the preliminary ranking and of the objections received, a second committee is created and functioning, which is within the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Notice, this committee should process all objections for no more than two weeks and propose the ranking of objections to the State Fund. In our opinion, firstly, in two weeks this is absurd to happen, given the number of projects that have been adopted so far and the objections. I give an example: in December 2016, when proposals were adopted on one of the most attractive measures........................................................................................ The objections were 700. The question is: how, within two weeks, provided that the project 90% needs to be reviewed again, will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry examine these objections and come up with an objective opinion? For us, in this way of work and with these deadlines, subjectivism will be significantly greater than any beneficiary can be satisfied with what is offered to him. We claim that preliminary ranking is not necessary. Why? And in the other operational programs, "Competitiveness", "sources" are adopted 2, 3 to 4,000 projects, but they are processed all together and each beneficiary has an opinion as to why his project has the relevant Ranking, why he is moving forward, what his problems are. While this choice, which is currently being proposed, means that 10% of the projects will be examined with the budget that is signed and the rest will stand on logs and will not be in any form considered and from now on included in the selection system. From this point of view, we believe that the preliminary ranking is harmful to the Programme and does not stimulate beneficiaries who have good projects to apply and participate in its creation. However, a question that arose during the questioning was not a technical error at first glance. In the first version of the Law, the Minister of Agriculture had to draw up a regulation that is related to the artificially created conditions. This is a problem that many of the beneficiaries face for the simple reason that at some point it turns out that there are artificially created conditions, but no one knows what these conditions are and what instructions the State Fund is working on to be able to determine them! Now, in this version, this regulation is gone! Why? The regulation is something that gives rules and these rules, when known by everyone, will not be violated. Otherwise, it remains a feeling that subjectively one beneficiary's issues are resolved according to the extent of his access to the State Fund of Agriculture or the Ministry of Agriculture. We will not support the Bill, but between first and second readings we will give our proposals, we believe that in this way we will give the opportunity to resolve many of the issues of management of the Rural Development Programme precisely in the direction in which the motives are recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Svetla Bachvarova? I won't. Are there any other statements on the proposed bill? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! I can only congratulate myself that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry managed in such short time to prepare and submit this version of the Law to the National Assembly, because this is extremely important for the Bulgarian economy. The non-voting and non-voting of this Bill means a delay, including the loss of tens of millions of levs, which are vital to the Bulgarian economy, especially for Bulgarian agriculture. I believe that what is being done with this Law is a good solution and it will help our farmers. Here is the place to express my opinion, and I suppose my colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs that what the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry wants to do is good. We have to stop finally doubting our state authorities. Let me know someone in the last year or two at least I can't think of, big gaps, violations, disputes about project evaluation. What is suggested by the BSP is normal as opposition to do so, that almost projects will be imported and will consider one amount, while others will leave them without consequence, is not true. Absolutely all projects to be submitted will be examined, will be ranked in advance, the respective project reserves will be placed to be ranked next. This procedure is avoided, which stifles the absorption of European funds not only under the Rural Development Programme, but also under the operational programmes with this continuous appeal, with this continuous conduct of trials. Finally, the Bulgarian economy loses. It seems to me that more clear and precise rules have been taken in the Law to assess the projects. Once again, I appeal to the Members of the National Assembly, and to the speeches they make on the various media, not to suggest that they are almost in the State Fund of Agriculture, respectively in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, there are some tourists who have come there, pass through, look at the projects and then leave on the tourist trails. That's not true. There are very good, very experienced specialists who are involved in project evaluation. Let's trust them more. As for this two-week period, Mrs. Bachvarova, I trust your experience, your expertise, because we all know that from BSP you are the leading specialist in this field, but let us give the opportunity during these two weeks, which are included in the Law, to see what happens. It hasn't happened yet, we haven't said, "Hop!" and we say, "We won't be able to skip the hole." With regard to the fact that the regulation you are talking about is missing in this proposal for the Law... is also very important to me. I myself have been dealing since May, half a year with a case in Targovishte, where beekeepers are accused of creating artificial conditions and people cannot fix themselves, even though two checks have been made to them by the fraud directorate, from everywhere. They shall not demonstrate for six months that they have not made artificial conditions which have been identified in the protocols of the relevant verifiers. In this respect, we must have a process in which, on the one hand, farmers and MPs have greater confidence in the authorities who are given the right to evaluate projects because they are professionals; but, on the other hand, not to go to the other extreme, that everyone who submits projects is a potential criminal, because the majority of farmers are honest, hardworking people who want to have this subsidy, in some cases Finally, I would like to appeal to the MPs and those involved in the committees that have an influence on the formation of the Bulgarian position on the new common agricultural policy in the period after 2020. I was not afraid to tell Mr Oettinger personally, he was angry that Bulgaria in many ways is underestimated and only one of the criteria is seen, which determines the amount of funds provided under the European funds and the Rural Development Programme, namely gross domestic product. And that's not true. There are five criteria for determining the funds. For your information, Bulgaria receives between 2 and 2.5 times less money per capita compared to former Baltic defeats now flourishing Baltic republics. This must be addressed as a National Assembly to impose and to ask for what is due to us, namely more serious treatment than those dealing with the budgeting of the common agricultural policy, because no country has gone and has reached its well-being without welfare in the field of agricultural production. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u17	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Rumen Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to tell Mr. Petrov about the two-week period that in the Committee on Agriculture Minister Porozhanov himself said that this deadline is too short and that it will not be enough to review what Mrs. Bachvarova gave for 700 projects. So, Mr. Petrov, it's not us at the BSP who insist on this term. He is insufficient and the Minister himself confirmed it. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u19	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Petrov, would you like a jacket? He doesn't have an ass. We move on to further comments. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Unlike the previous colleague, I'll be more distinguished in my speech. The proposed bill that we are looking at today is second. If you recall, until two weeks ago, we were looking at the first version of the same bill. It is noticed that the difference between the first and the second Bill is quite large. We must recognise the efforts of colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture that they have mainly revised the first version of the bill. The one who was proposed the first time with the noble, with the good idea, the agricultural program to get into the ISUN system. With these noble motives, a number of texts have been proposed, which, in our view, firstly, were not at the level of law and, secondly, changed some agricultural policies. In this way, the second version makes the impression that all these things have been removed. In this two-week period, I personally know that there have been a lot of committees, working groups at the Ministry of Agriculture, which have worked very hard and impresses that these things have been cleared. I am not saying that the Law is perfect, there are still things that need to be refined, as what colleagues have shared for the term, for the appeal, for the percentage of negotiation, but the things that have remained as texts for clearing are already so few that we think could already be cleared of proposals between first and second readings. In this sense, our parliamentary group will support the proposed Draft in principle as a spirit, as a philosophy with the agreement that, for the unredesigned texts, we will take advantage of our powers to propose adjustments, amendments and additions, with which we can still specify the remaining texts to be refined. I am addressing my colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture with a request to be very careful because when moving from one system to another not to create upheavals, shocks that will block the absorption of European funds, because I personally know that it is not easy. So be careful with the noble idea and the agricultural program to pass into the system ISU, not to cause turmoil and fluctuations that will ultimately affect our farmers! Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u21	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote at first reading of the proposals Draft amendment and supplement to the Agricultural Support Act, No 754-01-79, submitted by Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova and a group of MPs on 15 November 2017. Vote 152 MPs: 97 against 5, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. We move on to the next item on the weekly agenda, namely: SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY AND COMPLIANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW. I request a Commission report. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure in the Chamber to allow Ms. Nina Stoyanova to be admitted to the Executive Director of BNB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u23	Please vote on admission to the Chamber. They voted 130 MPs: 126, against 1, abstention 3. Please invite the Governor of BNB to attend the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u24	The Law on Credit Institutions is amended and supplemented by the Law on Credit Institutions. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u25	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the name of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Credit Institutions. Vote 137 MPs: 125, not against, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u26	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. A new t. is created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. details of the actual owner of the persons holding, directly or indirectly, a qualifying holding in the applicant. 2. Previously on "T." 8 and 9 become 9 and 10. Proposal by the Commission for a new § 2 (in relation to the amendments to § 1): In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para. 2 words. 7-9s shall be replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u27	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the proposed paragraph? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. They voted 143 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 36. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u28	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes that § 2 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u29	Are we only voting on Tsonev's proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u30	No, we are voting on the proposal under § 2 by importer, on a proposal by Yordan Tsonev. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u31	I put to the vote § 2 of an importer to be rejected. They voted 152 MPs: 111, none, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u32	According to § 3 an importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Yordan Tsonev. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in points (a) and (b) and (b) and does not support it under point (c): (c) c. 3 concerning the new para. The 8th sentence is amended as follows: The method of calculating the exposure value is determined in accordance with the reporting regime for large exposures under Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 after the words "Management Authority" shall be added after prior approval of the Supervisory Board, respectively to the members of the Board of Directors who are not executive members. (b) c. 2 the words "Shareholders holding' shall be replaced by a person holding, directly or indirectly, a qualifying interest in the capital of the bank or a qualifying interest in the capital of the bank; (c) c. 4 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier" and then a comma is added and added as well as persons who are living together with them. (d) a new item shall be created. 5. It's five o'clock. persons that the bank or person under point (b) of paragraph 1 of this Article shall be subject to the conditions laid down in paragraph 1 of this Article. 1-4 controls directly or indirectly, including jointly with other persons; (e) the current t. 5 is going to be t. 6 and in it the word "the management' shall be replaced by "the management or supervisory authorities'; (f) the current t. 6 is going to be t. 7 and is amended as follows: "7." Commercial companies and other undertakings within the meaning of art. 2 of the Accounting Act, in which the bank or person under point 2. 1 4 has direct or indirect qualifying holdings; (g) the current t. 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7. 8 And in it the words speak. 1-6s are replaced (h) create a t. 9. Nine. persons exercising direct or indirect control of the bank or of shareholders with qualifying holdings in the bank; 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 1 after the word "Rewardes" shall be added "or is within the limits previously approved by the Supervisory Board." (b) c. 2 words. 1, t. 2, 3, 5, 6 and 7 1, t. Two, three, five, ten. 3. They're creating an al. 8 and 9: The exposures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be reported in accordance with the following formula: 1 shall include any asset or off-balance sheet item including derivative contracts, claims arising from the provision of services, acquisition and sale of assets and leases. The method for calculating the value of exposures shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 45c. (9) Alinea 1 shall also apply in the event of a change in the terms of exposures such as re-negotiation of interest and provision of grace period.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I put to the vote the proposal made by the National Representative Yordan Tsonev in § 3 point (in) which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 15 against 97, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 on art. 45 as amended by the Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 108, against 14, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u34	According to § 4 an importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Yordan Tsonev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 4 and shall propose the following wording: ............................................ Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 45a-45c: Art. 45a. (1) Banks shall adopt and apply internal rules and procedures for the establishment, monitoring and reporting of exposures to persons under art. 45, para. 1. (2) The rules and procedures under para. 1 include a mechanism for monitoring the control line or a qualified shareholder share to the actual owner of the persons under art. 45, para. 1 of the Credit Institutions Act. 45b. Banks shall draw up and submit to BNB a quarterly report on exposures to persons under art. 45, para. 1 in form and content defined in a regulation. Art. 45c. The Bulgarian National Bank shall adopt a regulation on the application of art. 45-45b.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 4 in the version of the Commission with the amendments made. Vote 150 MPs: 110 against 1, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u36	Paragraph 5 is an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. Paragraph 6 is an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6 by proposing in para. 3 words can be dropped.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u37	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the editorial amendment that Mrs. Stoyanova has just read may fall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u38	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, the two paragraphs.................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u39	First let's vote on the version of § 6 and then § 5 and § 6 together we will vote on it. They voted 130 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 23. The motion is accepted. We are voting paragraphs 5 and 6 on the Commission report with the so-called editorial amendment. 140 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 31. The paragraphs of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u40	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Nikolay Alexandrov, Margarita Nikolova, Evgenia Angelova and Yordan Tsonev for new paragraphs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. MP Yordan Tsonev's proposal for new paragraphs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the The individual administrative acts under this law shall be issued by the Governing Council of the BNB on a proposal from the Head of Management of the Bank's Supervisory Board, with the exception of the individual administrative acts under art. 3a which is issued by the sub-manager, head of the management of the Bank's supervision and under art. 56 and 56a, which are issued by the sub-manager in charge of the management of the bank. The Commission proposes to set up a section of Article 8-11 Final provisions: ? FINAL PROVISIONS?? ................................................................................... In the law on the recovery and restructuring of credit institutions and investment firms (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 44 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1. 3 for a bank shall be applied by decision of the Governing Council of the BNB on a proposal of the Governor-General of the Management of the Bank's supervision, setting an appropriate deadline for their implementation, which allows to assess the effectiveness of their implementation. 2. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The measures referred to in paragraph 1 shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 in respect of an investment firm shall be applied by the Commission on a proposal from the Vice-President responsible for management, by setting an appropriate deadline for their implementation, allowing it to assess the effectiveness of their implementation. § 9. In the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16, p. 16 is amended as follows: ..16. apply supervisory measures and early intervention measures, grant approvals, authorisations and consents in the cases envisaged by law; 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Seventeen is A minutes shall be kept for the meetings of the Governing Council, signed by the members of the Governing Council and the minutes drawn up. Information on decisions of the Governing Council shall be published on the Bank's website, except where decisions contain professional, banking, commercial or other legal secrets. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. The 3th sentence is amended as follows: The Governor exercises his supervisory powers and the operational management manual of the Bank's supervision on his own and regardless of the functions of the other managements of the Bulgarian National Bank. (b) in para. The 4th sentence is amended as follows: The Governor exercises his supervisory powers and the operational management manual of the Bulgarian National Bank. § 10. In the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems (prom., SG...) in art. 137 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The individual administrative acts under this law shall be issued by the Governing Council of the BNB on a proposal from the sub-governeur, head of the management of the bank, with the exception of the individual administrative acts under art. Art. 26, Art. 77e, para. 3 which are issued by the sub-manager in charge of the management of the bank. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. § 11. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u41	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the newly created § 7, the newly created divisions with the name and paragraphs 8, 9, 10 and 11. They voted 144 MPs: 108, against 22, abstention 14. The proposals have been passed, and with that, the Law. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u42	Madam President, I'm asking for a procedure. In addition to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, which by right will be here in the Chamber to be admitted: Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the NSI, Mrs. Snezana Malakova from the NSI; and Mrs. Petya Malakova from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u43	Please vote on the procedure for admission. Vote 137 MPs: 132 against 1, abstention 4. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u44	Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 of 25 October 2002 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u45	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: 129, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u46	Under § 1 an offer by the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye and a group of Members of the National Assembly shall be made: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1. in para. 1: - What do you mean? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in t. 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. In para. 2 "I." The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number ..11 961..2.. (b) in the table: - on line I. The number.11 067.2 is replaced by.. 11 - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row five. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. 2. in para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number ..11 961..2.. (b) in the table: - on line I. The number.11 067.2 is replaced by.11 - on line one. The number of the expenditures is "11 059 944.2' and is replaced by "11 953 944.2'. - in row 1.1. The number of "9 455 866,4" is replaced by "10 275 866,4" by "10 275 866,4." - in row 1.1.1. ====Pensions at the expense of the State Social Security====The number of the State Social Security (PSS) - in row 1.2. The number of social benefits and benefits is 1 490 000,0 and is replaced by 1 564 000,0. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u47	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We have repeatedly stated that the budget of state social security, such as each, is a budgetary instrument for implementing a certain type of policy. Unfortunately, vulnerable social groups do not find support through this budget, that is, this budget does not help to increase the social protection of Bulgarian citizens as it should be. Now get to the point. As I have been paying attention to you since the first vote on the draft budget of state social security, in the proposal of importers as a whole, there are no serious steps in the revenue policy of state social security in the direction of their increase, which is necessary to ensure adequate security rights of insured persons and, to a greater extent, to ensure the balance of social security funds. If there are any ideas at all in the direction of improving the situation, it is at the expense of the insurance rights of the individual groups of insured persons. The most important parameters of revenue are frozen and there is no hint of a more significant change in the direction of increase. Although it is envisaged to increase revenue by 560 million, 9.3% compared to the over-execution achieved or by more than 920 million planned in 2017, I claim that again the revenue of the state social security budget has been underestimated. This has become a lasting practice and trend in budgeting, and at the end of the budget year there is a serious overrun of 5.6% each time, which in no case is due to some overcollection or something positive in this direction, but to a deliberate understatement of revenue. Therefore, from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we propose that in our submitted alternative budget the revenues will be raised first in the Fund. 547 thousand. 200 BGN, with 5,86% up, which we predict will be realized as a result of raising the maximum insurance income of 2,600 BGN. At 3,300 leva. When we get to art. 9 under this bill, I will explain to you why we must necessarily raise maximum insurance income. Secondly, more fully accounting for the effect of raising the minimum wage by 10.86%, from 460 BGN. BGN 510. In third place, more fully accounting for the effect of an increase in the insurance burden by 1'. Second, in the Fund of Pensions............................................................................................................. 69, early retirement, we offer an increase of 2.8% or 19 million. 48,000. lv. and it is also a very real expectation as a result of an increase in the basis for determining the amount of basic monthly remuneration for the lowest position of the persons under art. 212 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, under the Law on the Ministry of Interior, under the Law on the Execution of Punishments and Detention, under the Law on the State Agency of National Security, under the Law on the National Security Service and under the Law on the State Agency of Intelligence. And thirdly, an increase in total sickness and disability and unemployment funds is achieved as a result of a more precise and responsible reporting of the effect of raising the minimum wage and betting the rate of increase in income of 16% by the Ministry of Finance in 2018 compared to 2017. We are predicting a total increase in insurance income for 2018 by 332 million. 92,000. £631. With our projected and proposed increase in revenue, we will finance the alternative cost policies we offer, such as the recalculation of pensions, where an additional 750 million will be needed. lv. And another 70 million. lv. additional costs for the new amount of the maximum pension of BGN 1155, which we foresee in the alternative budget. Another 60 million. lv. to increase benefits for raising a child from 1 to 2 years and 14 million. lv. to increase unemployment benefits. I therefore appeal to all MPs to support the proposed changes for the entire article. 1 of this Bill. I will not be able to explain the changes that we propose to be made in the budgets of individual funds on revenue, expenditure and transfers, because these changes are related to the philosophy of our proposals for the alternative budget, which I explained and reflect the proposed changes to the general budget of state social security on revenue, expenditure and transfers to the individual funds such as the Fund. 69.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You can see that we are clearly and accurately explaining where the money will come from in the revenue section to implement the policies that we are proposing further in the expenditure section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I don't see any lines. Statements? Dr. Ademov, come in. Our guests, colleagues, are students from Veliko Tarnovo University today. Let's say hello! [[Applause.]] Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u50	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal we make under art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Before arguing our proposal, I would like to try to dispel a statement that has been going on here in plenary in recent years that there is no way between first and second reading to change the parameters of the budget, there is no way to change revenue and expenditure, as the Ministry of Finance is committed to collecting contributions through the National Revenue Agency, the Ministry of Finance is implementing the budget and, from this point of view, only they have the right to propose the budget framework. Ladies and gentlemen, if you accept this mantra, change the Constitution and write a text that will allow the Council of Ministers to adopt the budget by decree of the Council of Ministers. [[Heckling]] Thank you, but come and replicate me from the stands so I can answer you. Next, the proposal we are making is linked to an increase in revenue, again, by 140 million. lv. The cost is estimated at 67.5 million. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. lv. For the Fund, the unemployment rate and the 10 million yen. lv. for farmers and unemployment benefits. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to show you a huge gap in importers' assumptions regarding revenue planning. The planning of revenue from importers is based on 2 million and 700,000 insured persons. Here are the official statistics of the National Insurance Institute. [[Shows document.]] There are 3 million and 200,000 employed in Bulgaria. I understand that there may be people with two contracts of employment, and there may be civil contracts, but you can understand that 500 thousand is a huge difference. BGN, which we offer you, can come quite calmly as income from insurance contributions. I understand the claim that the income from insurance contributions is tense, but in no case this 140 million. lv. cannot be a burden on the budget of state social security. Next, honourable Members, this budget is a budget and a discussion on policies. My request is that you take the opposition's proposals seriously. I understand that you do not accept these types of proposals, but at least listen carefully if you want to adjust in any way. What you are proposing right now, you are saying in the arguments to the draft budget of state social security that for next year the insured persons will grow by 10 300 people. But are you convinced that only 10,000 will be more insured next year? Once there is an idea, it is not an idea, there is a growth in gross domestic product of 3.9, almost 4%, after there is an increase in remuneration in the budget sector, there is an increase in wages in the real sector, so that 140 million. lv. They can't be any problem. The costs we are offering are for the Fund. Honourable Members, this increase in pensions, which you propose from 1 July next year, by 3.8%, can only be by 67 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. more, to be significantly increased. If at this increase, which you are offering, for 3.4% on average insurance income 870 BGN, for the following year is somewhere between 13 and 14 BGN, what we offer from 5.2% increase in pensions, notice, on all pensions, costs only 67.5 million by the end of next year. My request is that you support these proposals. There won't be any drama. There won't be any drama, because that 140 million. lv. are doable. Last year, you said the revenue was tense. Here we are at the end of the year, we have 360 million. lv. the increase in revenue expected at the end of the year and those 460 million BGN, which you offer them as an increase in revenue for next year, are based on a programme for 2017 and a programme for 2018, not on the implementation of revenue in the budget at the end of the year, so not 460 million. lv. is the proposed increase, and only that money, which is over 360 million. lv. up to 460 million. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u51	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Replies to Dr. Ademov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u52	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The State Social Security Budget Bill for 2018 contains the assumptions of the National Revenue Agency for its revenue collections. The expected revenue reflects the increase of the minimum wage from 460 to 510 thousand. The expected revenues were developed with a maximum insurance income of 2600. The effect of the increase of one percentage point of the Fund is reflected here, the effect of the increase of the third category pension service is reflected by two months per year, as well as the increase of minimum insurance thresholds by 3.9%, and the accounts of the Ministry of Finance for the income from compulsory social contributions under art. 159 of the Public Finance Act, drawn up on the basis of the spring macroeconomic forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 of the Ministry of Finance. The planned amount of income from insurance contributions corresponds to 2 million 786 thousand and 85 persons with average insurance income 872,20 BGN. and there is no reason to increase it. What is observed in the proposal submitted by the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms? We have a proposal to increase the income from insurance contributions by 140 million. lv. under art. 1, which corresponds to 56 thousand 815 insured persons more on average insurance income, as I told you, 872 BGN. There is no evidence of such an increase in insured persons taking into account the main social security indicators and data. The effect of the modification under art. 1, para. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. Regarding the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs the following is proposed: an even greater increase in art. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid granted by the Region is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which corresponds to 258 thousand 473 insured persons. In this context, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, with the cost of the change of 894 million. lv. more. I would like to tell you again and remind you that there are no grounds for an increase in the planned amount of revenue, and any increase in expenditure leads to an increase in the transfer from the state budget to cover the lack of funds, which further burdenes the state budget. Yes, there are no populisms in this bill, and we all know that social policy is one of the favorable fields of populism. So let's stay in the field of expertise. About Art. 2 What are we looking at? [[Noise and lines.]] Because they were speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u53	You have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u54	Since I'm not gonna take the floor again, I'm gonna make the general statement, just like they did. About para. 2, the expenditure in the Fund of Pensions is in line with the actuarial estimates in the preparation of the State Social Security Budget Act for 2018. Here are taken the increases of the minimum pension for internship and age of 180 BGN. from July 1st and to BGN 200. October 1st. The average amount of pensioners for 2018 is expected to be around 2 million 170 thousand, and we see in the proposals made at the Movement for Rights and Freedom (Movement for Rights and Freedom) an increase in revenue and expenditure in the Fund of Pension by 67 million 500 thousand. In the proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs the effect of the amendment of art. 2, para. 1 is an increase in revenue in the Fund "Pensions" by 374 million 547 thousand. The effect of the modification of art. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The effect of the modification of art. 2 is an increase in the deficit in the Fund of Pepsi by 445 million 452 thousand. As you can see, we have a significant increase in the deficit in the Fund. This is still a budget, where do these funds come from? None of the negotiators, nor of those who have made a proposal, say where this will come from, from insurance contributions, from other contributions or again from the state budget? We have already mentioned that there is a significant reduction in the dependence of the DVO budget... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u55	Time, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u57	A line? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Dimova, I just showed you official information from the National Statistical Institute. [[shows.]] . The employed in Bulgaria are 3 million 225 thousand third quarter of 2017. How do you start from 2 million 700 thousand insured persons? By what logic? Where's that $500,000?! Or do the government officially admit that these are people in the gray sector, that these are people who don't pay social security contributions? Of those people I'm talking about, 500 grand, we assume half of them are civil contracts. Under certain conditions, they are also obliged to pay insurance contributions. But where are the rest of the people? You claim that 50 grand is needed to carry out that 140 million. Well, what is foreseen in the budget based on a 2017 programme, next year's money is 560 million more. But the budget implementation, I just told you, by the end of this year is 360 million more than planned for 2017. That is, the increase for next year is only 100 million. And what's all this talk about the National Revenue Agency predicting all the increases? Only from the increase of the social contribution to the Fund, Pensions by 1% are entered into the budget of 270 million. And what you're offering is 100 million more, so next year of this tribune, life and health, I'll remind you that you don't want to accept that 140 million. lv. additional income from social contributions. Because you, with the re-execution of next year's revenue budget, will give the so-called Veliccan and Christmas benefits, will reduce the deficit, which is 4 billion. 200 million. lv. for next year, and this way you will take into account a good management of the state social security budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u59	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Is there gonna be a second line? Here you go, Mr. Gokov. Colleagues, let's greet our guests from Plovdiv on the balcony. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u60	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Dimova, in my speech I said that you underestimate the revenue side of the budget. Dr. Ademov told you how you underestimate the number of persons provided. I have heard from you a statement that the BSP estimates lacked 257 thousand in order to achieve this result. I explained to you where more revenue will come from raising the maximum insurance income from 2600 to 3300 BGN. The ruling majority must be aware that you underestimate the budget, and this is what you do with every budget. It's been seven years now. This is the eighth consecutive budget you've made. Didn't it become clear to you that you've already been deconstructed in this part? [[Strength noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]] It is always seen at the end of the budget year that the revenues are 5.6 per cent more than you planned. That's how it was last year, that's how it was last year, that's how it's gonna be now. And Dr. Ademov told you that at the end of this budget year, for which we now accept the budget, if we are still here, if your government has not fallen, you will see that it will again be so. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u61	Mr. Gokov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u62	What we offer in the revenue section is the real part, and with this revenue we can finance the good things that we offer in the expenditure section, one of which is the recalculation of pensions from the average income for 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Third line, Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u64	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Dimova, what is populist about making the budget of state social security actually guarantee citizens' rights and increase the quality of security protection? What is populist about increasing the maximum amount of insurance income to BGN 3300.? Is this a populist policy, in your opinion, since this amount has not been increased since 2014, since the difference between minimum and maximum social security income is getting smaller and this makes it possible to benefit high income groups under insurance obligations, at the expense of those with lower incomes? Is that justice, is that populism, Mrs. Dimova?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. A hole? Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u66	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ademov, about the answer to you This is the exact number of insured persons that can be provided. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Where did you get them from? "]] From your experts. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u67	Please do not call from the hall, use a line or speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u68	Regarding populism, Mr. Gokov, I stressed and told you: there is a reduction in the deficit of state social security from the state budget, which 2015 was about 50%, and now it is about 40%. You and your proposal want to return the increase in this deficit again. We have a paradox: we are talking here about insurance from pensions and insurance, and it turns out that you want to pay these taxes, or by taking from other people in the budget to secure your additional income. So far, we've only seen expenses. We did not see any real proposals, real numbers, figures, but only populism and only costs. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u69	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. Statements? Mr. Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, perhaps we should concentrate more on what we read. I have also been opposition, and I also understand the opposition's speech, but in the end you know that specifically for the State Social Security Act... [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Yes, that's true, Mr. Yankov, but in the end, the Social Security Act has to be solidarity. You understand that, even Mr. Ademov understands it maybe twice as well as I do. This is a Law on which we must be very careful both in our speeches and in our suggestions what we are modeling in it, because the fruits will be harvested, and after many years. From now on, I can address more of my colleagues from BSP and DPS, as they are clearly aware that the shortage is 4.2 billion. They are clearly aware that there is a difference between the number of employees and the number of insured persons, since this has double jobs, this is with civil and employment contracts that are covered, this is by providing four hours. In order to overcome all these difficulties and in order to actually get the increases that you are offering from both parties, including us, we must work towards balancing the budget itself. It is obvious that these proposals will not work. It can't happen: just let's get out 800 million and give it to him. The question is, where are we gonna get it? At the moment, funding the IPO budget means that everyone, paying anything, charging and paying the VAT, then one part of it goes back to the state social security budget. This system does not support itself practically, you very well know it and realize it. The increase in the security ceiling [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] It's not relevant, automatically, that you get some revenue that you can reassign. The increase in the ceiling from 2600 to 3300 means an increase in the ceiling of the maximum pension from 931 to 1150 BGN, or 219 BGN. On top, and really consider how many new pensions will come with this ceiling...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u71	60 million more.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u72	...how unbalanced will the system itself be? [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, on the contrary, that's what the numbers say. We can't ignore these numbers. If we wish at the end of the period or in general this system to continue functioning, it will function in a small part for us here, for example, but mostly the younger people will experience more serious difficulties in this system, in the longer period of time. You know that every touch, which is about more populism and more spending inside the system itself, removes the system from imbalance. We have had many talks on this subject, including on proposals that we have given. Yes, indeed there is the right thing to do in these words, and we need to listen much more because this is the budget in which it is absolutely absolutely clear that you have accurate statistics, you have exact parameters for each feather in statistics, and at the end you have a final result. What you claim with most revenue, they can come in several directions. They can come by providing real income, they can come revenue in the year with an increase in the number of employees, they can come, including through an increase in salary, which means an increase in social security. So you can't just say straight line: you have overexecution. Overfilling 300 million in one year does not automatically mean that you have overrun in the next year by 300 million. It's not the same thing. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So you can't just bet it so lightly and that way. There are certain parameters. This is really.. and Mr. Ademov knows it probably best than any of us, as well as Mr. Biser Petkov in which you have accurate statistics, a specific person, with precise and clear indicators and at the end you get a clear number. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u73	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The line is Mr. Stoynev, then Dr. Ademov, third line is Mr. Mareshki. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u74	Dear Mr. Alexandrov, in this budget and in this system the most important is trust. But how do we achieve this trust when we do not motivate people to provide their real income? After all, telling him that there will be a pension ceiling, that whatever salary is provided, he will take this ceiling, then he says to himself, "What's the point?............................................... You thus restrict and retain this ceiling. We want to raise it through maximum insurance income. It will have a positive effect of approximately 70 million. lv. when the maximum social security income is increased. I appeal to all colleagues: Is it fair a person who works and is provided at BGN 2600, regardless of what his labor.. 33%. We, here in the National Assembly, who take over 3000 BGN, have less insurance burden. Is that fair?! That is why we propose to increase the maximum insurance income in order to have confidence in people to know that by providing a higher salary they will also receive a higher pension. And the fairy tales that we have to look at the deficit here, GERB is doing it. Well, raise your internship and age, limit people from being able to retire at all, and then I assure you there will be no deficit in the system! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Second line, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I understand your concern and desire the budget of state social security not to screw up in any way if I can use that word. This is quite normal for the government. But you're talking about populism. I would like to remind you of a position you defended when you were in another position in another political party. You offered a minimum pension amount of 1000 BGN. Then what was that, Mr. Alexandrov?! You were offering 1,000 leva. Minimal pension! [[Replication of the National Representative Nikolay Alexandrov.]] Okay, that's the smaller problem. But you know you had such an offer. Next place, 140 million. We are very careful with regard to the macro framework of the state social security budget. We're not offering $1 billion. Or 800 million. lv. More revenue. We are proposing a real implementation of revenue. Your thesis is definitely not true, given that last year there was an overexecution of the revenues of the DVO budget, there will be no next year. Then why do you offer and allow a growth of 3.9% for next year?! Either one position is wrong or the other. You can't blame our proposal, you can't blame the Movement for Rights and Freedoms for making populist proposals. Our proposal is perfectly real. We have said what are the natural indicators on which these revenues can be guaranteed. They're not made up. They're documented in the document I just showed you. The National Statistical Institute has said that the employed in Bulgaria are 3 million and 200,000 people, not 2 million and 700,000.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u77	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Third line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, at any time when there is a meaningful statement, it should be encouraged because it sets a good example. In this sense, we from the Parliamentary Group of Volja. We have listened to you very carefully, and secondly, we have very much appreciated your speech. Once again, let us stress that there are still at least a few people who have listened carefully to your speech. But I thought you made one mistake. There's a protocol in place, so we want to clean it up. You said the increase in costs would bring out an imbalance system. We think he's gonna put her in an imbalance, he's gonna disbalance her. That's what you meant. If you can correct it. Otherwise, we fully support your speech. Thanks for having such nice things happen with us sometimes. [[Laughter and disapproving applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u79	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. A hole, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Yeah, I was factually wrong. Indeed, the increase in costs will take the system out of balance. I'll go back to what my colleagues said. Mr. Ademov, the number of employees is not equal to the number of insured. You, as a former minister, are very well aware of the difference. You also realize the difference of providing yourself on an 8-hour working day and providing yourself on a 4-hour working day, as well as having civil contracts that are actually covered by employment contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u81	The difference is 500,000, not five people! And those who are provided at four o'clock, don't they pay?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u82	Mr. Ademov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u83	Mr. Stoynev, I will address you with this. Indeed, this system is built on trust and solidarity. If you have a system for which some, and most often politicians say it is too aggravated or that it will be before bankruptcy, we are talking about a period of example 2035 "2038," will you have confidence in this system or will you not have? Trust derives from the system itself, stems from our speaking. If the goal at the moment is to lead to greater imbalances within it, it does not increase confidence. If my memory isn't correct, I think the ceiling of the newly released pensions will be dropped by next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u84	Where's the justice?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u85	That doesn't correspond to the statements you made. Trust is a two-way process. First you have to have a stable system that you can trust. You know that very well, as Minister of Economy. We can't ignore that lightly. It's not a model kindergarten budget to run. This is the budget from which absolutely everyone who has completed their work path, those who are currently on maternity leave, those who are on sick leave, those who have accidents at work, and so on. This is a budget that affects a large part of society, and we cannot be gullible about it. It is precisely to increase trust that we cannot support your proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u86	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u87	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I propose a procedure for verifying the quorum before we vote on the revenue section of the DCI.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u88	Name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u89	A reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u90	There's no reverse opinion! [[Strength noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria and in DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u91	The Parliamentary Group shall have the right to propose a name check. Colleagues, let's welcome our guests to Ruse! Welcome! [[Applause.]] We're starting a roll call. Yavor Rumenov Bojankov is absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov here Julian Krastev Angelov here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov here Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov here Hristo Grudev Grudev here Hristo Georgiev Gajev here Hristian Radev Mitev here Hassan Ahmed Ademov here Hamid Barry Hamid here. Halil Recepov Letifov here Hayri Recepov Sadakov is absent Philip Stefanov Popov here Toma Nikolov Tomov here Toma Lubomirov Bikov here Todor Bajchev Bajchev here Teodora Radkova Georgieva here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva here Tasko Mihaylov Ermenkov here Tanya Todorova Petrova here Tanner Mehmed Ali here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev here Stefan Lambov Danailov is absent Stefan Ivanov Burgeev here Stefan Apostolicov here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov here Save Yanev Panchev here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski here Snezana Georgieva Dukova is absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov here Slavi Dichev Netzov here Simeon Christov Simeonov here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov is absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov here Sevim Ismail Ali here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev here Rumen Petrov Genov here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev here Rumen Vasilev Gechev here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov here Ramadan Bajram Atali is absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova is absent Plamen Trifonov Hristov here Plamen Tachev Petrov here Plamen Ivanov Manushev here Plamen Dulchev Nunev here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova here Peter Hristov Petrov here Petar Georgiev Kanev is absent Petar Boykov Vitanov here Pencho Plamenov Milkov here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov here Nona Krasteva Yotova here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov here Nikolay Asenov Tishev is absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer is absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova here Mustafa Sally Karadaye is absent. Mladen Nikolov Shishkov here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov is absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova here Milen Vassilev Mihov here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev here Maria Yordanova Ilieva here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova here Manol Trifonov Genov here Manoil Minchev Manev here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov here Krastina Nikolova Taskova here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov here Cristina Maximova Sidorova here Christian Ivanov Vigenin is absent Krasimir Hristov Jankov here Krasimir Mitkov Subev here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov here Krasen Georgiev Krastev here Cornelia Petrova Ninova here Konstantin Veselinov Popov here Kolyo Yordanov Milev here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva here Cyril Boyanov Kalfin here Kalin Nikolov Popovski here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev here Yordan Iliev Yordanov here Yordan Apostolicov here Ihsan Halil Hakke here Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov is absent Irena Todorova Anastasova here Irena Metodieva Dimova here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova here Ilian Angelov Timchev here Iglika Ivanova-She's here Ivo Angelov Hristov here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov is absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski here Ivan Kirov Genov is absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev here Ivan Dimov Ivanov here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov is absent Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev is absent Errol Osman Mehmet here. Erjan Sebytin Ebatin here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova here Emil Marinov Hristov here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva here Evgenia Danielova Angelova here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva here Evgeni Genchev Budinov here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev is absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova here Dora Ilieva Yankova here Donka Dimova Simeonova here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov is absent Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev here Dimitar Boychev Petrov here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov here Diana Dimova Sawateva here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva here Desislava Jekova Taneva here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova here Desislava Angelova Todorova here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov here Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev here Delyan Slavchev Peevski is absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova here Daniel Petkov Yordanov here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova here Georgi Yanchev Gokov here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski here Georgi Tenev Stankov here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski here Georgi Kolev Kolev here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov here Georgi Zaprev Dinev here Georgi Evdokiev Markov here Colleagues, that's 151. To read those who have entered the hall, we only add Julian Angelova. We're moving on. I've closed the debate. [[National Representative Mustafa Karadaye wants the floor for a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.]] Let's vote first and then I'll give you the floor for a declaration. Let's get this procedure over with. I shall put to the vote the proposals not supported by the Commission. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs - the Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 174 MPs: 171, against 74, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 181 MPs: 75 against 89, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support art. 1. Vote 182 MPs: 109, against 70, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have guests from New Bulgarian University. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u92	Thank you, Madam President. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u93	Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall and remain silent. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 26 November 2017, a series of torches organized by IMRO and other nationalist organizations announced the pressing rematch of Bulgarian nationalists, this time within historical reminiscences. Attempts to use historical facts, such as contracts whose action has long been suspended by subsequent contracts, constitute a dangerous attempt to create moods, for actions to re-create state borders,... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u95	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u96	...which is unacceptable. It is unacceptable because it denies the fundamental principles of our common European home.. recognition of the current borders and refusal of action to re-create them. It is unacceptable because it undermines peace and stability in the country, the region and Europe. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is strongly condemning this act and these actions and categorically insists that the National Assembly and the Government distinguish themselves from the anti-state manifestations of nationalists and confirm the firm position of our country, for which the key priority is the establishment of lasting peace in the region and Europe, as well as the preservation and deepening of good neighbourly relations. Peace and stability are at the heart of every success of the state for prosperity and a guaranteed future. Peace and stability are not for granted, are not inalienable, they must be made efforts and all nationally responsible parties owe this in the name of future generations. The latter was also reminded of us very soon in the address of the President of the European Parliament, Antonio Tajani. We don't have questions for the ruling party because we know the answer. It extends far from the construction answer to a question and gets too much resemblance to the legal protection of their coalition partners. We of the DPS will not be silent, and each time we will remind ourselves how far away we are from normality and how democracy is at risk, because it is not normal government, hiding comfortably behind nationalist formations, to put such a risk of peace in the region. It is not normal for MPs and MEPs to organize and participate in events that undermine peace and stability and forget that as governors they are responsible not only for today, but also for the distant horizons of Bulgaria. We of the DPS are against any attempt to destabilize the state, destabilize the peace in the country and the region, for a rough provocation against convergence in neighbourly relations in the Balkans. It's not normal to say one thing, another thing to do, third thing to think about, fourth thing to provoke. It is not normal for someone to think that they can control the process, that they enter and will remain in history with their successes. Make your judgment and take your position. The other is fear and irresponsibility, for which you will pay a heavy price all the people! On the one hand... [[Noise and lines from the SG to the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u97	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u98	... based on a calm, practical and sober assessment, leaving behind historical divisions and historical solutions, Bulgaria 27 years has been moving towards establishing as an important factor for peace in the region. On the other hand, nationalists who, with their participation in power, condemn the country in the best case of isolation and turn it into a periphery state. It is not normal to call for the protection of ethnic peace in the country and the region, citing historical and geopolitical peculiarities, but at the same time to pretend that you do not see how your coalition partners are destroying statehood and democracy, encouraging them and imitating them. It's not normal to call for peace, but at the same time to provoke tension and create risk. In addition to his own experience, the rulers must know very well the lessons of history. We have learned our lessons, we know the price of democracy and we will not give up our position! For 27 years now consecutively, and not formally, the DPS has followed its policy on democracy, rule of law, on European values, peace and prosperity. The Bulgarian ethnic model has shown and proved its rightness. This model is not only the face of the DPS, it is the face of Bulgaria in front of Europe and the world and continues to be extremely relevant. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today's state borders were defined after World War II with the Paris Peace Treaty in 1947, which states: "After the end of the military operations against the United Nations, Bulgaria broke off its relations with Germany and concluded an agreement with the Governments of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on 28 October 1944, the United Kingdom and the United States of America, acting on behalf of all the United Nations in war with Bulgaria, and after taking an active part in the war against Germany, and given that the Allied and Associated Forces and Bulgaria wish to enter into a peace treaty which, in accordance with the principles of justice, will still settle the unresolved issues as a result of the above events and will create the foundation of the friendly relations between them. The Paris peace treaty is the basis for the existence of the UN and the Security Council in its modern form. Any attempt to challenge a previous border-setting treaty undoubtedly casts a shadow over the treaty that defines today's borders of our country. The actions of nationalists, and through their participation in power and state, are self-target provocation incompatible with the European place and role of the country. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With this Declaration, the DPS does not simply condemn such inadmissible acts in the 21st century. We insist on the state authorities and institutions President, President of the National Assembly, Prime Minister, to immediately express their position and condemn each act and all actions over the years... [[Noise and lines from the SG to the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u99	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u100	...including the latest act and actions of nationalists who threaten peace and stability in the country and the region. [[Noise and lines from the SG to the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u101	I'm asking you to behave yourself in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u102	Dear Madam President...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u103	You'll be able to make a statement, colleagues, if you want to make an opinion. Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u104	Madam President, patriotism must be inside each and every one of us and there is no need to advertise. Patriotism unites and brings together, and nationalism divides and destroys even established traditional ties. In view of the actuality and power of the Paris Treaty, I will allow myself to conclude with quotes from him. [[Noise and lines from the SG to the United Patriarchs.]] They don't need a comment, they just need to be accepted. These are clauses that are undertaken as an obligation and have the power of law and, in moral terms,................................................................................................. Art. 2. Bulgaria will take all necessary measures to ensure that all persons under Bulgarian jurisdiction, regardless of race, sex, language and religion, the exercise of human rights and fundamental freedoms, including freedom of speech, of the press and of publications, of conscience, of political opinions and of public meetings. Art. 4. Bulgaria, which has taken measures to disband all fascist-type organisations on Bulgarian territory, whether political, military or paramilitary, as well as other organisations that lead hostile propaganda against the United Nations, will not allow for the future existence and activities of organisations of such a nature as are intended to take away and prevent people from exercising their democratic rights. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u106	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedure in the manner of conduct, as you have failed to ensure sufficient order and silence in this House when a parliamentary group chair makes a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group. I suggest you, Madam President, not, but I urge you to listen to the audio recording during the declaration and hear what they were shouting... [[Noise and lines from the SG to the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u107	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u108	...the colleagues from the nationalist sector of the House and apply the Law and that article with all its rigour by punishing the MP who uses insulting words and qualifications at the address of our President. We'll be waiting for your answer, including those words we're hearing right now. [[(Noise and lines from the SG to the United Patriarchs.) Claps by DPS.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. I'll listen to the transcript. I heard there was a noise in the room, and I made a remark, but I couldn't hear exactly what it was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u110	Madam President, didn't you hear right now?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u111	I heard right now, but... Colleagues, I'm making a formal remark, please! [[((Noise and lines from SG to "United Patriarchs.")]] No insulting definitions in this room, please! Let's continue with art. 2. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u112	Under art. 2 by importer has a proposal of the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1. in para. 1 "I." Revenues and transfers' shall be replaced by 2. in para. 2 "I." The cost and the amount of the contribution and the amount of the contribution shall be replaced by the amount of the contribution referred to in points (a) and (b) of the first subparagraph of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) in the table: - in row I "COMMERCIALS AND TRANSFERS," the number - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. in para 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) in the table: - of row I "Rests" and "Transfers" the number "Everyone" is replaced by "Rests" 9 171 402,1 "Everyone" is replaced by "Everyone." - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - in row 1.1. The number of the Pensions is 8 350 768.8 and is replaced by 9 170 768.8 and is replaced by 9 170 768.8. - in row 1.1.1. Pensions at the expense of state social security the number 3. in para. 3 the number s "3 921 387,2" is replaced by "4 366 840.0." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u113	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote, first of all, the unsupported proposals. The first proposal is from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 147 MPs: 59 against 70, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unacceptable proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: 60, against 83, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 2 which is supported by the Commission. They voted 152 MPs: for 101, against 47, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Declaration on behalf of a group, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u114	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, once again, we have witnessed how an anti-Bulgarian party behaves, how a party works contrary to the interests of the Bulgarian state, how a party serves the interests of a foreign country, how a party denies that the New York Treaty is unfair to the Bulgarian people and to the Bulgarian state! Thank you. Once again you have revealed yourself, once again you have shown that you are an anti-Bulgarian party, you, of the DPS, because the hundreds of thousands died on the battlefields of Bulgaria, including your ancestors, who left their bones in these unifying wars, you turned your back on them. Shame and shame! Shame and shame to deny that the New York Treaty is unfair for Bulgaria! This treaty leaves hundreds of thousands of Bulgarians outside of Mother Bulgaria. We, the patriots, the United Patriarchs, have been organizing these verses for years to remind that such a thing should not happen anywhere in Europe or anywhere in the world. A country should not be punished and cut off territories from it, inhabited by ethnic Bulgarians. This thing shouldn't happen again, but obviously you didn't understand that thing. With these marches we also honor those heroes who participated in the wars, as I said before that your ancestors also participated in these wars and to remind even that in World War I Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey are allies. Or maybe you forgot this thing? But today, obviously you have decided to show Europe or the Bulgarian citizens how we, the United Patriarchs, are the worst, the blackest and, you see, we have no right to take part in the country's governance. But you can't say that, the Bulgarian people say that. The fact that you are constantly using all kinds of tricks that denigrate the Bulgarian state, including snitches, including defamation, because last week, here in parliament, there was a pasquil, a book that you made against the Bulgarian patriots to make them the blackest, in which you had no shame to put broken Jewish graves that connect directly to us. That's a shame! [[Loud noise and lines from DPS.]] Because, unlike you, specifically IMRO participates most actively in the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews. Where were you then, Main Mufti?! [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]] Then were Bulgarian politicians, the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and IMRO, who participated in this thing. Where were those people that you believe today violated their rights, or did they just keep quiet because they waited that by reaching Hitler's troops to the Caucasus, Turkey would join the Third Reich's side? This is what your ancestors expected and therefore they did not take action to save the Bulgarian Jews. We've accepted them, the bad nationalists! So, when you're talking untruths, take a little more reading. When you speak untruths of this tribune, we will not only shout out of the hall, but we will make sure that we show everyone that you are lying and manipulating again and again for the sole purpose of helping yourself to power. Well, it's not gonna work! You will no longer enter the Bulgarian power, you have no place there! You're harmful! You are harmful to the Bulgarian state! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u115	Mr. Angelov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u116	Time?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u117	Not the weather, you have time, a little more calm.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u118	I didn't insult anyone. I'm speaking the truth right now, as they say it. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] What I would also point out is that recently there has been a warming up of relations between the DPS and Turkish politicians. Apparently, since then, a process of this has begun to attack and attack the United Patriarchs. It's not gonna work! [[People's representative Mustafa Karadaye is leaving the room.]] I see your leader has come out. Christmas is coming, miracles happen at Christmas in DPS. I hope you understand that. And while your Honorary President claimed in interviews that he was proud to be a Bulgarian nationalist, you today deny... [[Noise. Replies from DPS:.]] Nationalism, patriotism and patriotism are the same, but obviously you should read even more. [[DPS lines.]] You see, they're calling from the gym right now, and otherwise they're making remarks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u119	Colleagues, please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u120	While some of your MPs wore slippers to your honorary leader in the Sarai there are, we fought for the rights of the Bulgarians who remained...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u121	Mr. Angelov, please, with that word...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u122	...behind the borders of the Bulgarian state. It's you! [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u123	I'm making a remark to you, Mr. Angelov, about the word you used. I don't think it's right for you to use it. Therefore, under art. 156, p. 2 I make a remark to you. I've imposed by the Rules of Procedure... [[Loud noise.]] In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u124	Dear Madam President... [[(Lowered noise and lines from the United Patriarchs.) A line from the National Representative Julian Angelov:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u125	Please, colleagues, do not use that word again. There's a penalty for that word.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u126	I am extremely uncomfortable with doing a second procedure in the manner of conduct, but I would like to draw attention to you, Madam President, on two facts. First, that the one whom you have just punished for insulting qualifications to MPs and members of the Bulgarian Parliament of other parliamentary groups, when you listen to the audio recording, and if you were careful in the previous one during the declaration, you will see that he, the same one, the previous remark was to him again, for using the same qualification.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u127	Yeah, that's why I'm putting him in charge right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u128	You can't reschedule, first of all, and, second of all, I'd like to tell you once again to listen to the audio recording. The one who delivered the declaration on behalf of the united nationalists "the same one had to be removed from the Chamber of the same Rules. We will insist on this because we have heard what word we have used to our President. The other part of my note in the manner of keeping is that perhaps you should have interrupted the speaker as he stepped on false facts. He says our declaration speaks of the Nyeo Treaty. She wasn't mentioned there. This contract is not mentioned at all. We're talking in the declaration that these verses create certain... [[Lowered noise and lines from the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u129	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u130	That's what I'm saying, you should have done this to interrupt the host and make him a note that what he's saying is not facts and circumstances that were read in our declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u131	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Let me get this straight. And I'm entitled to two minutes under the rules. When I heard this expression from the Chamber, I made a remark, but I did not make a remark under the Rules. I just made a remark. And when Mr. Angelov said the word of the Parliamentary Tribune, I made a remark to him on art. 156 and I've already punished him. The first time I did not make such a remark under the Rules of Procedure, under the relevant Article. 156. [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]] Here you go, Mr. Stanilov. I beg you very much, with less emotion, with more constructive tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u132	Madam President, honourable Members! For your information, Madam President, and you, fellow Members, the word....means an elite soldier in the Ottoman army. Nothing more! What's so offensive about that?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Stanilov. [[Loud noise.]] Colleagues, half an hour's rest, let's settle the passions a little bit. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u134	Dear MPs, we are continuing our work with the State Social Security Budget Bill. We shall start by voting on art. 3. Article 2 has been voted on and adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u135	Under art. 3 by importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1 all over the text, in its four uses, the number 2. In para. 3 the number..81 610.2. is replaced by.62 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u136	You have the floor to speak. Are there any who wish to comment on the reported texts? I can't see. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 3 first with the proposal not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 24, against 53, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 3 by importer. Vote 87 MPs: 75, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the reported texts of Articles 4 and 5. There were no requests for speeches. Let's move on to the vote. Vote 113 MPs: 87, against 25, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u137	Under art. 6 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1, all over the text, in its four uses, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) in the table: - of row I "Costs and transfers" "all" the number "1 085 166,5 " is replaced by "1 145 166,5". - in row 1 Costs the number - in row 1.2 3. In para. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u139	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! This proposal in this Fund is related to art. 13 of this proposal from the budget, where we propose that the number This is the compensation for raising a small child under art. 53, paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Social Security Code. Its inadequate dimensions and its freezing are one of the most irritating actions of our society during the budgetary procedure. Now the importer increases the compensation for a small child from one to two years from 340 to 380 BGN, probably under the influence of the new coalition partner, because such an increase was not in any year, in any budget made by GERB. But the increase is 40 leva. I don't know if it's news, it's probably because it's the first time a social payment has been thawed. But another question is: what will be the effect on the demographic crisis and will lead to such a huge increase of 40 BGN. to satisfaction among young families who decided to raise children, and will it help them raise a child, will it make the Bulgarians give birth to more children? The BSP parliamentary group for Bulgaria is consistent and when it manages, this compensation for raising a small child from one to two years of age is linked to the minimum wage and is equal to it. When in opposition, he proposes that the government be bound by the minimum wage and equal to it. That is exactly how we propose now: the frozen from 2014 and previously from 2009 to 2014 compensation for raising a young child to increase from 340 to 510 BGN. and, accordingly, to reflect this now here in art. 6 in the budget of the General Disease Fund. The increase we offer here is 170 BGN. A lot more significant than 40 BGN will give the mothers a breath of air. Like I said before, I'm going to say it again. 60 million. lv. additionally necessary to secure this increase in compensation to the minimum wage level. I think that Bulgarian mothers deserve this 60 million and instead of giving them for renovation or for low quality repair and construction of roads and highways, we should give them to Bulgarian mothers and Bulgarian children. And I call on you to support this proposal for changes to the Fund so that when we get to art. 13, to support and increase, a more significant increase in the funds that we will give to the Bulgarian mothers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u140	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Mr. Gokov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will not support such a proposal under Article. 6 and immediately justify why. Because here the effect of the change in art. 6 is the increase of revenue in the Fund.. General illness and.... is 182 million, Mr. Gokov said it. In the planned project, the amount of income from insurance contributions is not justified as no additional change in the amount of the contribution and the number of persons insured in the fund is envisaged. There is no reason to incur additional costs, as no change is envisaged in the grounds for acquiring the right to the cash benefits paid by the General disease and disability fund. For this reason, we will not support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Is there a line to the speech of the MP Mrs. Dimova? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I would like to support the proposals made by the BSP for Bulgaria to increase the costs of art. 6 "General disease and maternity, and art. 7 "Unemployment." These costs directly affect the policy of the state to solve a critical problem for the existence of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely the demographic crisis. The trend in recent years is that an average of 4,000 children are born less per year and one of the reasons for this is precisely the size of the so-called "motherly" among the society. It does not provide coverage of the natural needs of quality of life, both children and their parents, but therefore creates a social tension and a sense of uncertainty among social and professional groups with higher educational status. Namely, they are the ones who guarantee the high personal quality of the Bulgarian nation. It is hardly necessary to convince you that in families with high property and educational status the possibility of being born and raised healthy, educated and motivated to stay to live in the Republic of Bulgaria children is much greater. The personal quality of the Bulgarian nation is directly related to the problem of unemployment. With the expected increase we from BSP for Bulgaria aim to introduce effective measures to reduce unemployment among young people in the country, especially those with good education, so as not to choose the path of economic migrants. That is why, as a young man who has chosen to live and work in his homeland, I call on you to support the changes we have proposed in Articles 6 and 7. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u144	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Are there any MPs willing to reply to the statement? I can't see. Other speeches on the discussed text of art. Six? There are no willing MPs. We're going to vote on the text. First, I vote on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote: 151 MPs: 50, against 73, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of art. 6, proposed by the Commission. Vote 151 MPs: 101, against 44, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u145	Article 7 by importer. Proposal by Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 1. in para. 1 "I." The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. in para. 2 "I." Costs and transfers' is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) in the table: - in line I. Revenues and transfers - all: the number?271 517.1? is replaced by?332 492.6?. - on line one. The number of incomes is replaced by the number - in row 1.1. Insurance contributions the number 2. in para. 2, all over the text, in its four uses, the number..396 3. in para. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any who wish to speak on the text discussed? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal we make under art. 7 is related to another proposal that we are making in § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. Nine down. What's this about? It is because the amendments to the Social Security Code extend the necessary period of 9 months in the last 15 months to 12 months in the last 18 months. It's incomprehensible to us why this deadline is being extended? The argument in the Commission was that the short-term benefits for 2017 were close to 1.5 billion. BGN, as in these short-term benefits includes unemployment benefit. The deficit in this fund is set at 80 million. BGN, which in no case can be an argument for limiting access to insurance rights. That's why we're offering the 63 million. BGN, which if the proposal to drop 12 out of the last 18 months is accepted, will be compensated with this 63 million. lv. This proposal is probably made to compensate for the increase in the minimum amount of unemployment benefit. I do not see any logic in this because the minimum amount of unemployment benefit increases to 9 levs, of course, with a limit on the monthly ceiling of 74.29 levs, but in no case can this be an argument to restrict access to insurance rights. It's a security risk. In the event of the occurrence of the insurance event there must be a corresponding claim, the corresponding insurance payment of compensation. We therefore propose that revenue and expenditure increase by 63 million in unemployment fund. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u148	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Other speeches on the discussed text of art. Seven? There are no willing MPs. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs for art. 7. Vote 151 MPs: 55 against 77 abstentions 99. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the text of art. 7. Vote 148 MPs: 56 against 77 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of art. 7 by importer. Vote 150 MPs: 102, against 43, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u149	Under art. 8 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) in the table: - in line I. Revenues and transfers - in row five. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. in para. 3, all over the text, in its three uses, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u150	Thank you. Are there any Members of the National Assembly who wish to speak? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 159 MPs: 54, against 82, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. It's an eight-by-eight importer. Vote 155 MPs: 110, against 42, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u151	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9, p. 3 is amended as follows: "3." Minimum monthly amount of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova in art. 9, p. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs in art. 9, p. The 4th number "six hundred' is replaced by three hundred and three hundred. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the SSC in art. 9, p. 3 the number The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9, as in t. 3 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Ademov to speak. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u153	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This discussion about farmers and tobacco producers every year, when we have discussions on the state social security budget, is extremely up-to-date. It is obvious that steps must be taken in the direction of ensuring that revenue and expenditure are balanced, but clearly that this cannot be done by one step. We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we have proposed the minimum insurance income for farmers to be 330 BGN. Why did we offer exactly BGN 330 and not some other number? Because next year's insurance income is growing by approximately 10%. We agree every year. Every year! For farmers and tobacco producers, the required insurance income is increased by the percentage by which the average insurance income increases. This means that the proposal we are making is adequate to the growth of the insurance income for this year. Dear colleagues, somehow, when we talk about farmers and tobacco producers, we see this category as privileged persons. This is not the case at all, they are not the privileged individuals of state social security, but they are the donor of the social support system and social policy at all. Why am I saying this? Because 55% of excise duties, which are part of the revenue of the state budget, are at the expense of tobacco production and related example of cigarette production. With the new step in terms of excise duties for cigarettes, the revenue provided for in the country's budget for excise duties is 1 billion. $700,000. BGN, which is 55%.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u154	So what?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u155	So what? Tobacco producers and farmers have a bearing on the implementation of this excise duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u156	Don't smokers have any?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u157	Don't the smokers have any? That's for you to say, Mrs. Stoyanova, when you come here from the stands. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, accept our proposal for 330 BGN because it is based on a reasoned calculation of the growth of the insurance income. We agree with this to have, I repeat, small steps, but we do not agree with such a big step as is envisaged in the proposal of importers on this project. In addition, I would like to tell you that farmers and tobacco producers are different categories. Tobacco producers are registered in accordance with Regulation No 3, and farmers are registered under the ISAC system, as you all well know. So putting them in the same group, I don't think it's that correct. And one more thing! When we talk about farmers, we should not understand those large farmers with tractors, combines, tenants and so on. They are provided in a completely different order. We are talking here about small farmers and we must, on the one hand, protect their ability to contribute insurance contributions. They do not, if they do not import insurance contributions, because they do not want to be provided, but because they cannot do so on the basis of the revenues they have from the production they have made. In other words, there must be a correlation between the revenues they receive in the realization of the production of agricultural goods and services on the one hand, and the possibility to pay this amount of minimum insurance income. And the last thing I finish with. When we talk about minimum insurance income, this does not mean that farmers and tobacco producers should be provided on this income. That's the minimum income. If they receive more revenue, of course they need to be provided on a larger insurance income in order to be able to obtain a higher level of social protection. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u158	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any lines to Mr. Ademov's statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any speeches? Here's your speech, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u159	Thank you, Mr. Chairman of the sitting. In my speech, first of all, I would like to start with a remark to the leaders of the meetings: not to allow the Bulgarian farmers to separate from this tribune. The speaker, who is currently having another conversation and is not paying attention to what I am saying, said several times and wanted to explain in some funny way that tobacco producers differed from farmers because they were registered under a different regime, which is absolute nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u160	Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to speak. I'm asking you very much about this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u161	The statement relates to the fact that farmers are one and they are engaged in the same activity. This activity includes tobacco producers. This division was done in the dark times when the Ministry of Agriculture spoke freely to Turkish and Bulgarian officials could not understand what it was about. [[DPS lines.]] That's right. These were the times when there were exchanges on a huge scale when certain DPS circles were enriched and now, you see, we are very concerned about this, about this part of the farmers dealing with tobacco production. And at the same time, what? At the same time, do the other farmers know that the DPS activists who signed up during the period 2007 - 2008. You know them, don't you, these activists, these lists they get every year from the state 100 million. lv. " One year was 129, " 130 million, and they receive it as an additional payment to tobacco? Imagine the funds being given for them to stop growing tobacco. Keep in mind that this money, which is also available in this budget, is about 100 million. BGN is for conversion. They are transitional aid, which 2020 is. Remember my words, these same people who are in the Religious Party DPS, these same people will be here to protest: Why don't you give us the money for the tobacco? Because they don't do anything. They purposely do nothing to convert tobacco production into another. With regard to this insurance threshold that they've been crying out of, tell me, which normal country has people who pay less insurance than the rest for the fictitious reason that they don't have money? I think we'll separate this particular group from this group... [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] So, from the farmers... Yes, it's very funny, I see that Mr. Chakarov is laughing. Come on, Mr. Chakarov, stop laughing, now we're talking about serious business. Excuse me! [[Relations and laughter from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u162	Mr. Petrov, do not engage in dialogue with the MPs, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u163	I propose to remove from the group of farmers those who receive the said 100 million and they pay not 330, not 360, but the minimum, which is currently 510 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u164	Thank you. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will argue again to you our proposal to increase the maximum insurance income. In the reasons of the importers, it is not clear what requires the maximum insurance income to be frozen at the level of 2015, i.e. 2,600 leva, although it is clear that there are substantial reasons for its increase, on the one hand, there is a clear consensus on the need to increase pensions, albeit less than symbolically in your opinion, colleagues from the majority management, or their recalculation, as is our proposal, and this is one of the roads with the increase of the maximum social income, for more money in the Fund. The fact is that you are predicting keeping the maximum insurance income at the level achieved, and that is not strange. Because the principle of GERB is, when they manage, to benefit high income groups under tax and insurance obligations at the expense of those with lower incomes. In general, the principle that the richer must bear a greater security burden is foreign to you. You are also acting consistently and persistently here, as well as if you are unwilling to accept any type of progressive income tax. If, in any way, you care about people with low incomes living below and around the poverty threshold, you must work towards the richest to bear the greater burden of both tax and insurance. Justice, solidarity and care for people with low incomes, I repeat, especially those around the poverty threshold, requires an increase in maximum insurance income. You do not accept any arguments, even if the increase is at least with the increase of the minimum wage, which compared to last year, is 10.86%. Not to mention that if we calculate the minimum salary for 2015 to which the maximum insurance income is frozen, the increase is over 34%. However, I call on you to support this proposal of ours, because it will bring additional revenue into state social security funds, achieved as the overall effect of the increase in maximum social income, the increase in minimum wage and the increase in social security burden by 1%. Justice also requires an increase in the maximum amount of pensions, all the more so that the Social Security Code has a link between the maximum social income and the maximum amount of pensions. I call on you to be understanding and to vote on this proposal. I hope you'll accept that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u166	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u167	Mr. President, I take this procedure in the manner of conducting it in the following context: please follow when colleagues speak about what topic. Because we are looking at a point here, and the fellow Member was speaking on an already voted point and has passed the debate on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u168	Thank you. I'll keep that note in mind. Are there any lines to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Yes, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Just to be clear, my colleague's statements were right on the spot, and I don't know what you're looking at or what you're reading, but you're wrong. [[Reply.]] Yeah, something's wrong with the coworker, but... So here at this point, except for maximum insurance benefits, for farmers' incomes, we are also talking about the minimum monthly amounts of insurance income in the calendar year, for basic economic activities and qualification groups of professions. I will not comment on them in detail, but I will only point out that there is an average increase in minimum insurance income in economic activities and groups of staff of 6.8%, which is formed by the growth of the minimum wage, and 3.9% for all other categories of staff. This is a symbolic increase, as well as in the entire government social security revenue policy in the 2018 budget project. The most important income parameters, including these minimum monthly amounts of insurance income on basic economic activities, are frozen or are raised quite minimally and do not follow the logical need to increase and reach adequate levels for social contributions, and there is no attitude to change these policies. Obviously, this budget also serves the interests of capital and again the work is in the background, but nothing new in GERB's policy. We come to this huge increase in the minimum monthly amount of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers from 300 to 480 BGN. It's over 60%.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u170	Didn't the Commission accept another figure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u171	It's unacceptable, ma'am. We'll mention that as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u173	The increase in the insurance of all other groups providing persons, if there is an increase at all, is a minimum increase of about 1%, and here is a full 60%. And I'm telling you again: it's unacceptable! So Professor Bachvarova and I have suggested that the increase is from 300 to 330 BGN. The minimum wage is 10 per cent. It is not accepted by the Commission. It is good that the Commission has shown discretion and accepted the proposal of BGN 350 which arose in the course of the discussion. Indeed, a very sensible Commission, because the other was indeed unacceptable. And now we come to the proposal of the importers: the maximum insurance income to be frozen at the level of 2015. For the third year in a row, BGN 2600. In addition to reducing the ratio between the maximum and the minimum income, the insurance income is 2600 BGN. and BGN 510 and the colleague said it, but I can't help but mention it, because it is really a principle of GERB that the high income groups are tolerated and in the whole of the European Union it is not the case in the whole world. Those who receive greater remuneration bear a greater security burden and I do not know when this will be understood by GERB. I would like to tell you that this is an absurd action for the third consecutive year freezing this maximum income, and this is a wrong policy because it limits revenue in state social security and in the health system. I am sure that sooner or later you will need to increase the maximum insurance income, as happened with the minimum insurance income and the minimum wage, and you will have to do so with a serious leap and in a way that will create serious tensions in society. That is why, with our contributions from our Parliamentary Group, an alternative budget of state social security, we have proposed in 2018, it to become BGN 3300, so that the high income groups will start to bear a slightly higher security burden, and gross additional revenue will also be generated in the order of BGN 206,5 million compared to what was set out in the Draft Budget. This will lead to greater justice and an additional positive net effect of the budget. In this case, it is only right to mention, although it is off the subject, of art. 9 of the project to drop the pension ceiling by proposing an increase in maximum social security income, we also offer an adequate increase in the maximum pension. It takes about 70 million. lv. expenditure on the new amount of the maximum pension, which should become BGN 1155. Otherwise, for another 910 leva freeze, I'm speechless. The update that takes place for all does not apply to the maximum pension. This ceiling is very low for the country and for the European Union, even lower than the minimum pension in Greece. This becomes unacceptable and our proposal is still with this budget to begin a smooth solution to this problem: in parallel with raising the maximum insurance income, raising the maximum pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u174	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Professor Bachvarova, come in. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to return to the subject of the minimum social income of farmers. On what my fellow Members have said, I would like to introduce a certain adjustment to the issue of farmers who receive subsidies under European funds and State aid. That includes tobacco manufacturers. Absolutely all are registered under Decree No 3, because there is no other system to receive State aid, as tobacco producers are, if they are not registered under Decree No 3. This happened after 2009. [[Reply.]] Now that's another argument. Of those small farmers I'm talking about, this is the right terminology, one tenth are tobacco producers. Because in the system where small farmers register, about 68,000 are small, that is, they have a arable area of up to 50 acres. We offer 330 leva. minimum social security income. The reason is that these farmers, based on what they produce, eventually receive subsidies up to 1000 BGN, cannot provide income for their own existence and also pay their insurance. I would also like to note that three years ago, when the minimum insurance income became BGN 300, 28% of small farmers dropped out of the registration system. They simply did not re-registered under Decree No 3 and from now on these small farmers do not pay absolutely no insurance. Upon increasing the minimum insurance threshold, it is now assumed that a large part of the "calculating what they produce, what they eventually receive, will also drop part of the support system. And another sort of argument. Very often, when it is said what income farmers receive, the prices that you have in retail, that is, we, as consumers, pay accordingly. The European Commission a few days ago came up with a decision that farmers receive no more than 30% of the consumer's final price. When you buy in the store and see that apples are 1.00 leva. or BGN 1,50, this means that the farmer receives 30 cm. Redemption price. These calculations give us reason to say that there should be a step, but these steps should not be in a direction that creates a problem for them to drop out of the support system at all. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Nikolai Alexandrov. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I will take advantage of taking a note from the last statement of the colleague Bachvarova, because she said something very right. At the increase of the minimum threshold to 300 BGN. At the previous time, the removal of farmers who have simply not re-registered is 20%. I say this rule especially for BSP colleagues because it is absolutely valid and in the same way as when you want to increase the maximum insurance threshold. There is such a curve as Arthur Laffere, which proves precisely through her this statement when taxes are dropped. I see Mr. Turnervalian alive and well among us! He worked in these circles, he can calmly tell you what happens when you only increase the ceiling. We cannot therefore support one such proposal of yours, especially for the increase in the ceiling. From another point of view, you speak from this tribune, but it is also nice to listen to the lines of the colleagues who have come. Because when you come to read the whole canonade and say that this is only part of the things you offer; that in the following texts we will find other such proposals, then you have to recreate the model that you offer this dropout of 20%, for which Mrs. Bachvarova even mentioned at the previous registration of 300 BGN. What you propose as a change in the incomes of individuals will also be overexposed. When connecting individual texts, they are not so easily comparable. On paper, yes, it sounds very easy, but the practice proved in principle quite different things. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u178	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u179	Dear colleagues, we have wasted a lot of time here for this social security income. Let us clearly say that in the Commission with colleagues from both BSP and DPS we agreed very respectfully to reduce this income from 480 to 350 BGN. I have something else to ask. Is it known that all these farmers, as you said, Professor Bachvarova, registered under Decree No 9 and with the issue of green cards and certificates against which they receive subsidies, do we not see them selling their products along the roads? I cannot agree with what you said that they receive much less value for their products, because, as I said, including by mail, you can receive their products for which no fiscal note is issued, and the income they receive for their production is not reported in any way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u180	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any lines? Yeah. Here you are, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u181	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleague, when you talk about selling without a document the goods and production of farmers, what have you done to have farmers markets where they sell regulated? What did you do when we proposed the so-called Law on the Protection of the Bulgarian Producer so that the large chains could buy this production? Have you done anything about this, or are we just accusing the manufacturers of working unauthorizedly? They will work when you create conditions for them to work like this and they will continue to do so! If you make it 480 BGN and 100% will not register as small farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u182	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u183	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It would be nice for the MPs from GERB to speak on this topic. We also appeal to the Minister to take the attitude, because someone must explain to us why we are giving up income in the insurance system. This theory is not true about Laffere's curve. This means that it is valid when it is really overtaxed. This is not the case in Bulgaria at all! We are at one of the lowest levels in the European Union at the burden of social security contributions. Moreover, the people themselves will be motivated to pay more insurance in order to obtain a higher and more adequate pension. That's what we're after at the end of the day. With your actions you've done so far, you've demotivated people. Because those who have the slightest contribution to the insurance system, those who are most incorrect to the insurance system, we have de facto raised pensions on them. And what do we do with those people who pay their insurance and have high incomes? I ask: what is the problem for example to provide not 3300 leva, why not talk about providing as much money as you actually get? Here we are, here in Parliament, we have high salaries, why not provide the full amount? I'm asking a question, you have to answer me! The opposition is asking. It is not possible for GERB MPs to remain silent on this issue, provided that the positive effect in the budget is a fact. I call on the Minister to come out and say: "Yes, we give up, we will not increase the maximum insurance income. We want people to have lower pensions. But you must have an opinion! Again, why only the lowest? And some of these people don't even have any insurance contributions. That's right, election promise! Okay, you did it. Let us now see for those people who want to be provided and are correct to the insurance system. Again, it is not normal for those who have lower incomes to be taxed more than those who receive more than 2600? That's what we're sitting around holding back! It's not some big tax thing. This guy's gonna take advantage of those insurance payments later, right? In Bulgaria the system is cost-covering! I don't see any problem. At the time when the system was introduced in 2000 to cover and make the big reform, the contributions were approximately 43 We've reduced them too much! So, as you say, with taxes, we complement. Now that people already have greater incomes, when people themselves want to receive higher pensions, we say to them: "No! We freeze it and that's it! Why?! Therefore, I call on the government to come out, to explain calmly to us. We call on the Minister to take the attitude. Does he share this idea, or does he really want us to move towards freezing this insurance income next year? Because, it's true, that applies to the maximum pension. You said it would increase, but only the newly released ones. So where's the justice, Minister?! So the guy who worked, he was insured, but he retired early, he's not gonna get a raise in his pension, he's just gonna get a raise on the guy who retires from next year? Is that fair? We want answers! It is quite normal to say: "Look, we have a strategy here, from next year or pό next year, we are going to do something, not just to freeze, because, you see, we are burdening people. Understand, don't burden them! People alone in this way motivate them to be correct to the insurance system. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u184	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of art. 9 with the proposals we discussed. We vote first on the proposals. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 170 MPs: for 74, against 75, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. They voted 173 MPs: for 76, against 77, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the next proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 178 MPs: 75, against 82, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u185	It's backed up!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u186	Yes, it is supported by the Commission. We're moving on to his vote. It is incorporated into the offer by importer. Sorry, it's my fault. It is supported by the Commission and is included in the text which we are about to vote on....................................................................................... Vote art. Nine by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9, as in t. 3 the number This is Professor Bachvarova's proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u187	To the Commission!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u188	... And the Commission. It is incorporated in the proposal. Let's move on to the vote. They voted 179 MPs: 116, against 44, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I voted against this proposal not in the part where it comes to BGN 350. I voted against the fact that you kept the maximum insurance income. I voted against this because everyone who voted for you is in conflict of interest because everyone who voted for 2600 BGN has benefited from this vote, [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] because you will not be paying this tax, so I voted against it. I ask you very much, tomorrow, when you go to your electoral districts, to explain to them why children will remain the same, why there will be no money for other pensions, why all the aid they need to receive, you freeze them precisely because of this, because you keep your income. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u190	Mrs. Stoyanova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u191	Procedure. Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put to the vote today's plenary day to be extended to 6 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u192	Is there a reverse offer? We are voting on the proposal that today's plenary day be extended to 6 p.m. They voted 183 MPs: 108, against 55, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u193	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u194	Thank you. Are there any statements under art. Ten? There are no speeches. We shall vote on the wording of art. 10 on the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 89 against 14, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Proceed with the report. Excuse me, Mrs. Stoyanova, there's a proposal for a revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u195	Dear Mr President, due to the fact that some of my fellow Members have not voted, I propose a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u196	We're re-voting art. 10. Vote 179 MPs: 120 against 59, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u197	Under art. 11 has a proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u198	Thank you. Are there any statements on the text of art. 11? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposal we make under art. 11, is related to a change in this coefficient of 1,169, which the governors propose to replace by 1,185. What do these odds mean? That's the weight of a year's internship. Why is it important in the formula for calculating the amount of pension? Because in order to determine the individual amount of the pension, income is multiplied by this coefficient, which is determined by the budget of the state social security each year. When the government adopted this article in 2015. 70, the idea then was this coefficient of 1.1 to reach 1.5. What does that mean? At the rate at which we increase this coefficient to 1,126, now to 1,169, maybe in 50 or 60 years we will reach 1.5. 70 of the Social Security Code. That is why we propose, albeit with a little, to accelerate the growth of this coefficient, which increases the weight of each year's internship. We have also proposed a separate bill, but, unfortunately, you rejected the possibility in more detail and in details to get acquainted with this project. Dear colleagues, it is interesting to us how the government will vote on this project because one of the ruling parties promised a minimum amount of the pension 300 BGN and what is now proposed is the minimum amount of the pension of 200 BGN to become 207.60 BGN. If anyone tells me that BGN 207.60. and pennies are equal to 300 BGN, to come to prove it, not to exercise on the topic of farmers and to exercise on the topic of social policy without having any concept of it. Dear colleagues, I suggest that you support this proposal because it increases the level of social protection of Bulgarian pensioners. That's 67 million! In the case of a budget of the state social security and a budget of the Fund, about 10 billion. 67 million. are nothing compared to what's being offered right now. That is why my request is that you support this proposal. It is a sensible proposal and cannot in any way discredit the budget of state social security. In no way can it screw up if I can use this harsh word, the public social security budget, because this 67 million can be quite peacefully implemented as income from social contributions. That is why my request, once again, is to support this proposal to change the year's insurance service to 1,185.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u200	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Any lines to the statement? There aren't any. Mr. Gokov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u201	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I can't help but take the floor. 11, because this Article. 11 of the State Social Security Budget Act expresses the entire attitude of the ruling coalition to 2 million. $250,000. people retired in Bulgaria. I and my parliamentary group will not support this proposal of yours to determine the percentage by art. 70, para. 1 in 1,169, because it is broken through art. 100 of the Social Security Code, and this is the gold one, or whatever else, a Swiss rule, which will bring to the Bulgarian pensioners 3.8% increase in pensions. You can imagine with these miserable pensions received by the Bulgarians because in Bulgaria more than half, even two thirds, pensioners live below the threshold of poverty and in 2017 this limit was 314 BGN. For your information, on 1 December 2016 or 1 January 2017, the number of pensioners who receive under BGN 314, including with the money for an additional pension from a deceased spouse and other supplements, is 1 million. 295 thousand. 395 people. As of 1 October 2017, it was 1 million. 491,000. 371 people who receive pensions below the poverty line. Over 66% of all 2 million. 158,000. 885 pensioners in Bulgaria live below the critical poverty threshold. One such increase of 3.8% of pensions is cynicism, and it is cynicism to a very high degree after you call the budget, state and state social security, and you increase the miserable pensions by 3.8%. I can't put it any other way about the budget. Such an approach to updating pensions leads to a serious lag in the amount of previously allocated pensions compared to newly granted pensions. Therefore, we will support the proposal of colleagues Mustafa Karadayi, Hasan Ademov and a group of MPs to determine the value according to this percentage of art. 70 from 1,169 to 1,185. It is an alternative to what the importer has proposed and will lead to one, albeit a small but greater increase in pensions when updating them under art. 100 of the Social Security Code with 50% of inflation and 50% of the increase in average social security income. I will not explain the essence of their proposal, but it will lead to a really slightly greater increase. If such an indexation of pensions is accepted, it will lead to an increase in pensions by about 5.4% and with an average amount of pensions of a pensioner 341,57 BGN. This will lead to an average increase in pensions by about 18 BGN. This proposal does not significantly change the condition and adequacy of the size of pensions, nor does the dramatically deepening differences between old and newly granted pensions, but is a step towards increasing all pensions and cannot be ignored. I propose to all Members of the National Assembly that we support this proposal, including the MPs from the ruling majority, because in our priorities for management, somewhere in secret, the two coalition partners have entered a stable pension system that ensures predictability and peace of mind for people in the long term. If you reject the proposal of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) for the benefit of all pensions, which I suspect you will do a little later, and if you reject this proposal of the DPS without a clear and precise time plan to say what actions you will take to improve the adequacy of the size of all pensions, I accuse you of really looking for predictability and tranquility, but rather in misery than in any thought of the future of pensioners. Support the proposal so that people do not gather to protest outside the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u202	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u203	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am obliged to emphasise that what we have agreed on on the Management Program has never happened out there in secret and hidden. On the contrary, this happened in the National Assembly when we negotiated the Management Program, the place where it was carried out was the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. No other place is more appropriate, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria is the best place to be able to raise a debate. I'm not inclined to believe that with an increase of £18. average income, we will fix the situation in which Bulgarian pensioners are currently present.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u204	A 7 leva.?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u205	Similarly, this is absolutely true for BGN 7.60. You are right, however, about a debate we have to lead from this tribune, but you are not right with the methods and arguments, especially from colleague Gyokov, who pointed them out. I understand what the PR department has written to us, and what we've been trying to step up, but this is not going to be the best. On Mr. Ademov's proposal, I believe that this is only the first of two common ones, because in § 3, there is an absolute change in the model, which we must also carry out in this debate. Perhaps this debate will be more appropriate and in calm times, I have also spoken with Mr. Ademov, we should really go into this topic. Colleagues, if I have to take from the methodology that you are using, Mr. Ermenkov has just used that we are in conflict of interest and we have to vote for......... for this proposal........................... why won't you vote for.............................................. You're back in conflict of interest anyway. When we vote on the budget of state social security, we will at all points be in conflict of interest. This is absolutely true of the civil servant as well. This means that the MPs cannot vote on the National Assembly's budget because they are in conflict of interest. Once again, I say to you and I call on you "If we reduce political dialogue, we are able to reduce it to narrow and very precise political messages and we can direct them correctly, yes, we may, in a more medium to long period, perform a kindness for the Bulgarian people. Mr. Ademov, I will personally support you as I have promised you, and for § 3, because it makes a lot of sense. I speak this in my own capacity. I hope we can actually have a meaningful debate here. And you're blaming us for $7.60. We will improve our lives, whether by 18.00 leva. We'll improve life, most likely, if we make the minimum pension and 500 leva. This will not lead to automatic improvement of the moment of the life of the Bulgarian pensioners, but these are steps, these are steps, this is a process. As was the process that happened in the last 28 years. We can only reverse it through another process. It's not a phenomenon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u206	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. A line, Mr. Gokov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u207	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I did not say anywhere that you in a hidden place have accepted any suggestions. I'm saying that in a hidden place you recorded it so you don't see much stability in the pension system. And I'm saying a hidden word because you forgot I'm sorry to remind you again from the platform of the National Assembly about the promises for 300 BGN. pension [[SIGHS]] , recalculating the pensions you spoke during the election campaign, both you and GERB also talked about recalculating the pensions. However, I do not see the desire to do this and with this increase of 3.8% I do not know what we do for Bulgarian pensioners. You say:.18 BGN. Will their problems be solved?.................................................................................................. Will they be able to solve them? Or if you give 40 leva. Christmas supplement and not all pensioners, will the problems be solved? By the way, I am now, because you have also said quite reasonable things from the platform in your speech on pensions, I will observe very carefully how you will vote on § 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of this State Budget Bill, where is our proposal to recalculate pensions. Didn't you talk about recalculating pensions during the election campaign? Now I'll see if you'll support our proposal to recalculate the pension. Change it if you want. Say, "We're not going to take it with 2.13, we're going to do it another way." But support, do something about what you promised, because people are disappointed about it. There colleagues from GERB advise you what to answer. Listen carefully, I hope you find some answer to what you promised, and you don't. Thank you for your attention, I don't know how careful you were.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u208	We were careful, Mr. Gokov. Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Second line? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u209	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, it is shameful of the National Assembly to say that 18 BGN. It's not enough, and it's 7 leva. That's enough. If we observe what you are proposing in the mid-term three-year forecast, dear Mr. Alexandrov, we will see that the situation of the Bulgarian pensioners will not change in any way to talk here for discussion. From what is bet as figures, we see that the increase of pensioners will be an average of 7-8-10 leva. per month per year. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u211	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Zhekova, I suggest you read the transcript. I said 18 leva. They will not improve, as well as BGN 7.60. I'm sorry you didn't hear me. Maybe your colleague was distracting you. I'll take it this way. Regarding the advice, Mr. Gokov, I will tell you that if I didn't listen to the other countries, I wouldn't have participated in a debate, I wouldn't have participated in negotiations. If you are not listening to your advisors, or just making such hints, OK. I would ask you again to come back to this topic of professionalism and some substantial debate, because if we have to bring it out in this populist logo what we have promised, again I tell you this is a process, this process endures years for it to happen. It's the same with the indexing of the pensions, and we've recorded it in the coalition agreement in the same way. It's not hidden, there's a whole section about this thing. You in the election campaign also promised flat tax. Finally, during the election campaign, you turned around. If you wish to turn this debate into not being productive in the end for the Bulgarian citizens, say so. I always thought that BSP should be a stable and productive party and I know that there are such people. You should be like that. Without a stable opposition, there will be no stable governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u212	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mrs. Dobreva to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable Members! We in GERB's parliamentary group cannot support this proposal, as it is related to proposals for a change in the rule for determining the percentage for updating the pensions under art. 100 of the Social Security Code as a sum of 75 per cent of the increase in the insurance income and 25 per cent of the consumer price index for the previous year. In this case, the rate of weight increase per year of insurance service is 5.2 or an increase of the burden from 1,126 to 1,185. If we support this proposal to recalculate pensions, including newly released pensions, with the new burden of 1,185 instead of 1,169, it will require 67,5 million. lv. in relation to those provided for in the Draft Budget Bill for the year 2018, which is, in our view, financially unfounded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u214	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dobreva. Any lines to the statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u215	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I'd like to replicate our conversation at one point. This year, a quarter of a million pensioners did not receive the necessary increase. A quarter of a million?! Like 4,900 people didn't get any increase. You promised that with this Law you would correct this thing. Where do we find him? Please answer this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u216	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Second line? I won't. Will you use the hole, Mrs. Dobreva? No. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 152 MPs: for 67, against 64, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 11, supported by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 92 against 48 abstentions 14. Paragraph 11 of the Commission Report has been adopted. You're welcome, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I appeal to you when we have questions from the opposition, which we do not get an answer from the representatives of GERB, and here is Minister Petkov, and we appeal when there are questions, the Minister also to take the attitude. I don't see any secrets. It's nice to have a debate here. For example, we did not get an answer what is the attitude of the Ministry towards increasing the maximum insurance income, and why? What's the reason the Ministry's against it if it doesn't seem to be accepted? A few moments ago, the colleague asked a very clear and specific question, which concerns tens of thousands of Bulgarian pensioners why they did not receive the necessary increase in pensions during the year and gave a specific number of approximately 250 thousand pensioners. Still no answer. After all, as the Minister is in the Chamber, my request is that you urge him. Of course, it is his wish whether he will answer or not, but my request is that when there is a question from a Member of the National Assembly, you simply turn to him and invite him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u218	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. You know that members of the Council of Ministers can take the floor whenever they want. Mr. Secretary wants to say a few words. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I was going to address the issues raised at the end of the debate so that I would not interrupt it, but since Mr. Stoinev insists that I answer the two questions, I take advantage of this right and this opportunity. I start from the question raised as to how what happened this year in the first recalculation of pensions will be corrected, not to repeat it next year. The answer is in § 6 in the Bill you are about to vote in para. 3: "When the recalculated according to the order of para. 2 amount of pension is lower than its amount before recalculation, increased by the percentage under art. 70, para. 1 sentence third, the pension shall be fixed at its higher amount. This is the answer to the question that has been asked. On the issue of maximum social income as one of the parameters that is defined by the State Social Security Budget Act and on the proposal of the Council of Ministers, because the bill belongs to the Council of Ministers, to maintain its size, I would like to give several arguments. First, the state social security, whose budget is being debated and to be voted, is the first pillar of the Bulgarian pension system. Let us not forget that the pension system has a second compulsory and third voluntary pension pillar, so limiting the amount on which contributions are made in the first, respectively, and in the second pillar, aims to leave available income in the higher income groups, which, if they wish to increase their pension income, have another opportunity to do so, stimulate the third pillar voluntary pension insurance and other forms of pension savings that exist. Since the Bulgarian pension system has this very deep character, this argument should not be taken into account. In my opinion, it is not the best policy to increase both the amount of the social security contribution and the amount of the social security income, because this is the insurance base on which the income for the social security system is formed accordingly. The maximum social security income is a regulator of the maximum pension amount. Currently, there is a ceiling set for the pension - 35% of the maximum insurance income, respectively BGN 910. There is a text in the Social Security Code that states that since the beginning of 2019 the pension ceiling has been dropped for newly granted pensions. This relates to another change that comes from the same date as the mechanism for calculating these pensions, namely the dropping of the three-year base since 1997, before the 15 years, which, as is known, due to the lack of such a regulator in this period, sometimes deforms the amount of calculated income. It is a fact that there are actual amounts of pensions that significantly exceed the currently fixed maximum amount of income. I believe that these are arguments that should be taken into account and are arguments in favour of maintaining this maximum amount. I would like to emphasise that the increase, the change in the maximum social security income in general has a two-way effect in the budget of the DVO as an increase in revenue, but also an increase in expenditure. Sometimes that's ignored, and I'd like to focus on it. I hope I answered those questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u220	Thank you, dear Minister. Moving on, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u221	Under art. 12 has a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 words are replaced by BGN 12 and the comma and text after them, until the end of the The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u222	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u223	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 importers offer an increase in the minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit of BGN 7.20. £9. and a maximum daily size is introduced - BGN 74,29, which has not existed before. At first glance, a big job has been done and we have news. After the amount of this compensation is fixed at a minimum wage of 240 BGN. And it hasn't changed for seven or eight years, and now there's an increase. But let's look at it from another point of view. Then, in the year 2008, in the case of the bad coalition, the minimum compensation was BGN 151,20 or 63% of the minimum wage, which was then BGN 240. Now, after long torments, in good management of GERB you do it, how much " 189 BGN." How much is that? "37% of the minimum wage. That's a very symbolic zoom! This compensation is far below the level of about 60.5%, on the official line of poverty! Even for 2017. In 2018 the percentage will be even lower, as the threshold, the poverty line will rise. Our proposal is for this compensation to be increased more significantly. It would be fair, since we have legally determined the upper limit of the compensation of 60% of the average income of the person, to determine the lower limit of 60% of the maximum insurance income, that is, BGN 14.60. daily. I think so, but in order not to shock you and to tie the balance sheets without increasing the insurance burden, we do not propose an increase in the contribution to the unemployment benefit fund from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we propose the minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit to be increased by BGN 7.20. 12 leva. I think that if you are responsible and think about people, you should accept this proposal. Otherwise, you should be aware that we amuse the motivation for need at all. Who would want to be provided for such low benefits that are below the poverty line? It'll take 14 million. lv. for the whole year. Against the general background of the budget of state social security is nothing money. The limit by which you will determine the maximum daily amount of BGN 74,29 is "genial" and is part of your ideas for cost reduction. I wasn't going to comment on it, but there's no way. This possible change, leading to a reduction in the amount of unemployment benefits paid to Bulgarian citizens working in other Member States of the European Union, is nonsense. I immediately ask the importers: how would such a change correspond to Bulgaria's commitments within the framework of the mechanisms for coordination of social security systems established at European level? And second question: would they not constitute such a limited violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens who have ensured themselves in accordance with regulatory requirements in the countries in which they worked? As I am sure and know that no one will pay attention to my questions here and now, I will ask them in the next week to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Answer me: how will she blush in front of her European colleagues and answer these questions that I put when they are placed at a higher level in Europe? I think that, as responsible people in this National Assembly, we should support a more serious increase in unemployment benefit, because otherwise we depreciate all the insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Angelova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u225	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I cannot agree with the proposal made by colleagues from the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. For years the minimum daily amount of compensation was actually BGN 7.20. Now in the budget of state social security we propose to become 9 leva. For years, colleagues from BSP's parliamentary group between first and second readings suggest that the minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit should be increased to BGN 9 Now, with the budget of state social security, we are fulfilling their wish. After they saw that the minimum daily unemployment allowance we made it 9 levs, automatic offer 12 levs. Why exactly 12 leva.? They don't know either. £7.20. 12 leva. This is almost a double increase in the minimum daily unemployment benefit. But more importantly, I would like to draw attention to you, colleagues, is this: who in Bulgaria receives minimum daily unemployment benefits? They shall receive those workers and employees whose employment or service has been terminated by their consent and at their request. Secondly, they receive workers and employees whose employment or employment has been terminated due to guilty conduct, punishment, that is, they have been dismissed disciplinaryly. Further, we propose that minimum daily unemployment benefit be paid to those workers and employees whose employment or employment is terminated by their consent and that they have taken together between four and six gross wages. What are you doing? You are stimulating an unemployed profession in Bulgaria, given that we have growth in the economy, we have a reduction in unemployment, the business is bulging, wondering where to get labour from whether from Ukraine or from the Western Balkans. You are suggesting that those people who have asked themselves to terminate their employment or employment, stay at home, drink cafes in establishments, rely on the state and drain the social funds. Is that the fair offer, Mr. Gokov, on your part? Is that the fair offer?! I don't think we can support him. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u226	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Line, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u227	Thank you. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you are manipulating people here. I do not know in this Chamber whether everyone is aware of unemployment, what it is about, but what you said are two of the groups that receive such minimal compensation. However, you are very aware how the employers in Bulgaria provide their workers with minimum wage at four o'clock. And you condemn these people to minimum compensation! Ask the Minister for a reference he will give it to you: how many people in Bulgaria receive the minimum compensation, how many of them have left by mutual agreement and how many of them are disciplinaryly dismissed. You will see that the difference is huge for the benefit of others who receive minimal compensation, but because of the salary on which they are provided. Quite an interesting theme you are raising about whether to study a profession that is unemployed or not. But why are we making them provide for these people? You know what insurance means, the principles of insurance? The basic principle of insurance, Mrs. Angelova, is that when the insurance event occurs, the income you will receive from the compensation will be replaced, and most of what you have received. You say, "You wanted 9 leva." The minimum wage last year was 460 BGN. Now you're making it 509 leva. We pό last wanted 9 leva, but you didn't. That's why I was quoting you just now what rates are on the minimum wage. Why are we keeping these people at 30% of the minimum wage? Who at a poverty threshold of BGN 315. for this year and 351 BGN. for the next one there will be a desire to provide and there will be no desire to hide his income, and you will give him compensation when he falls into unemployment, 180 BGN.? Who would that normal person be? You're very quick to solve these issues by importing labour. [[the President signals that time has run out]] I don't know where you're from, and I don't know where you're from. Help the Bulgarian labour force and then think of the other. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Second line? I can't see. Hole, Mrs. Angelova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u229	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gokov, I would like to remind you of 2013, November, when we adopted the budget of state social security for 2014. Then the minimum daily unemployment benefit was BGN 7.20. This is what you recorded when you were ruling and when you had a Minister of Labour and Social Policy! Then we, as opposition, from the parliamentary group of GERB, proposed the minimum daily unemployment benefit to be BGN 9 but you did not accept it! Isn't that hypocrisy? At the moment, we suggest 9 leva. You are offering 12. Tell me: is this political trick or hypocrisy on your part? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u230	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Colleagues, let's welcome our guests from the city of Varna. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] We continue with the speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches anymore. I'm closing the debate on this article. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. Vote 127 MPs: 51, against 59, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 131 MPs: 46 against 71 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. 12, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 134 MPs: 84, against 44, abstention 6. Article 12 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u231	under art. 13 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u232	Statements? Mrs. Jeleva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u233	Madam President, honourable Members! After years of rejection of the Socialists' proposals after a number of years of almost no social payments and benefits have been changed, while there have been growing maintenance costs, the government is now turning to minor increases in the DVO's budget, not taking into account the country's greatest danger to the country, the deepening demographic crisis. As a result of understatement for years of demographic problems Bulgaria will go through complex, dramatic, social and economic changes. We are faced with the risk that the ratio between a growing, hardworking and ageing population will fall very rapidly. Therefore, a long-term policy is needed. Small but important steps must be taken to improve the family policy, which is the basis of demographic policy in Bulgaria, and because almost 40 thousand people are leaving our country every year. However, the small steps do not mean the minimum increase you are offering, but the compensation for raising a child from 1 to 2 years remains below the minimum wage. In other words, over 38 thousand insured mothers each month will be damaged by 130 BGN. In fact, such requests and proposals have been made before by our parliamentary group, because several years ago these benefits followed the minimum wage, but in GERB's first term, the commitment of the minimum wage to maternity was removed and years ago, it was below the poverty line, with the only reason that when the compensation for the second year of maternity is increased, mothers are not encouraged to return to work, which in itself is absurd, because in large cities, the shortage of places in children's institutions is scandalous. I believe that the issue of good compensation for mothers in a society that is in demographic collapse must have broad support, moreover, that this compensation replaces the incomes of labour. These funds should not be viewed as social benefits. These are insurance rights for which we all make such payments, insurance contributions of 3.5% of our income each month, and we will continue to do so. Every day there is talk of our country's biggest problem, the demographic crisis. Yes, it is not only about encouraging young families, but it must be a priority. That is why we also make our proposal for compensation to be BGN 510, especially that we have a deputy prime minister in demographic policy. We must take some measures, although the government does not. We need to take quick action. That's our offer, too. It's part of the quick action. I mean, from this point on, demographic policy isn't just finding objects at border crossings. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u234	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Any lines to Mrs. Jeleva's statement? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u235	I want to support what the young BSP mother said,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u236	Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u237	...because you really need to pay enough attention to mothers who raise children. I myself have a daughter-in-law who raises a little child, and I know what the difficulties are. In such speeches, I would like to say: we take it from here and put it there, because the budget funds we have already voted them in volume. Kind of sounds like just one wish. The other thing I want to say is, please don't listen to the male population in this room. Why do you only talk about mothers? Isn't that discriminatory when there are fathers? We talk about mothers' aids all the time, we talk about young mothers, and no one pays attention to young fathers, which I consider definitely discrimination.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Second line? I don't see a second line. Mrs. Jeleva, for the back?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u239	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleague, you must not have listened carefully to the debate. You didn't admit to seeing. However, we commented on this in art. 6. Everything there is explained and colleague Gyokov very motivated spoke about where we will get and where we will give. About whether or why men should be born, I do not know, that is how I understand your statement. [[Noise, laughter and lines. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u240	It's more like raising the kids. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u241	It's a little joke, let me cheer up the debate. This is about size. It's not about who raises who. [[Applause for Bulgaria, GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u242	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Other statements under art. 13? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u243	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My speech will not be about the size, partly with the BSP colleagues' proposal for a change in art. 13 of the draft budget concerning the monetary compensation for raising a young child. To make it clearer, our basis and our position, let me remind everyone in this House what the situation is at the moment. Birth and pregnancy benefits are 410 days. That's 45 days before birth and one year after birth. From then on, the period for raising a young child begins. This is only in Bulgaria. Only in Bulgaria from all 28 countries in the European Union has such a long duration of this total period of parenthood. That's two years and 45 days. Thus, binding the compensation in this second year to the minimum wage of BGN 510 will in no way stimulate mothers to return to their jobs. You just said this was probably some kind of demagogy. It's not like that. All models in the countries of the European Union that we compare to, maternity as a common period is 15, 16, 17, 18 weeks. In Italy it is 22 weeks, only in Denmark, in Sweden are one year each, in Slovenia one year. All the other 24 countries have such a limited period of motherhood. Only Bulgaria makes a big difference compared to this standard. There this short period is also divided into two. In the first part of the period they receive from 80 to 100% of their salaries as compensation. In the second part they get a much lower amount. It is also possible for them to receive additional leave, but it is either unpaid or about 20 per cent as compensation for the amount. In this sense, this proposal for us is unacceptable. These countries follow the model in this way so that they can encourage mothers to return to work early. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u245	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Genov, what you say is common knowledge. Bulgaria has one of the best benefits for raising a child in Europe. It's not unique, but I'm saying it's one of the best, along with a few other sides. From your statement, I have understood a few things..... that it is very long. Well, dare you offer to reduce this motherhood. Go ahead and do it, and then your social policy, which you now post that you do and have, will be proven not at all. You say: In Bulgaria to stimulate the return of mothers to work. Yeah, you've been stimulating them since last year with changes to the Social Security Code, but why are you stimulating them with insurance money and not through government money? Can anyone answer that? Why do you pay for it? Who, when he comes back to work, you pay half of motherhood, but you pay for it with insurance money, and when the state implements some policy for promoting employment or for some encouragement, will use state money? You're taking it from insurance payments. Thirdly, I just want to tell you that in Europe, really in Italy and where you are, there is a smaller period, but in Italy they must have a much more developed system of kindergartens than other care for children, unlike Bulgaria. It may sound funny, but it is. As far as I know, in Sofia, people line up and sleep there so they can enroll their children in kindergarten. [[GERB lines.]] So, Mr. Genov, there are many questions. When you step out of the way to question some social security rights that people have acquired, you will find it very difficult to convince them that you have to take them away and keep them in the second year of minimum maternity, you will not force them to return to work. They, with these miserable benefits, if they had any chance of getting back to work, they would have.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u246	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will be very brief. Dear Mr. Genov, do you have a political decision of GERB party to review the period in which mothers use this particular motherhood? If there is, come out and say it, because you were criticizing him right now. Do you intend to reconsider this period? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u248	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u249	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoynev, first of all, I cannot say whether we have such a political solution, because we have not dealt with this issue in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u250	Why are you criticizing him?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u251	Why would I criticize him? Come on, I'm not getting into a dialogue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u252	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u253	This is the answer to your question. Regarding Mr. Gokov's reply, yes, I have nothing in general to comment on in the things that you have put out, but precisely in relation to the period of motherhood the problem is that in this year, compared to all other policies in this area, we cannot encourage the return of mothers if we accept your proposal for BGN 510. In addition, I would like to ask you: do you generally think that if we accept BGN 510. As a sum, it would change the mother's desire to have more children? I'm not convinced of this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u254	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, my speech will oppose this to the MP Mr. Genov, namely that the proposals of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and should be adopted in order to increase the amount of money compensation for raising a child. The main reason, as I have already mentioned in my previous speech, is the demographic crisis that threatens our existence both as a nation and as a country. Once again, the affirming trend per year to be born 4,000 children less in the Republic of Bulgaria. The proposed increase will be a sign of the country's commitment to the Bulgarian children and families, as well as to the assessment of the labor of young mothers. BGN 500 is even insufficient, but it is a sign that the responsible factors, namely the National Assembly, have taken the problem in their focus and work for its resolution. It is necessary, urgent, and Bulgarian mothers and children need this increase. Let us also make a determination about single mothers. Of course, not all mothers in Bulgaria have the opportunity to raise their children in full families. Agree that 510 leva. are extremely insufficient for them to take care of themselves and their children and live in normal and decent living conditions. Here, too, I would like to mention the poor mothers of adopted children in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you and again I call on us to support the proposal of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u256	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Any lines to Mrs. Halacheva's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u257	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The key word associated with this proposal to bind the minimum wage to the compensation for raising a child from one to two years is poverty. Poverty, honourable gentlemen of the government! There is no comparison with the developed Western European countries. It is precisely for this reason that in the years when it is necessary for the mother to raise her child in poverty in Bulgaria, at least this compensation should be linked to the minimum wage. We remember well, there were years when this rule was respected, and we remember the years in which you made the decision that the minimum wage would not be tied to this allowance for raising a child. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u258	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I am closing the debates under art. Thirteen and we're going to vote. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 144 MPs: 52, Against 55, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 13, supported by the Commission. Vote 147 MPs: 95 against 43 abstentions 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u259	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u260	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the Commission's support to the vote. 14 and 15. Voting mode. They voted 146 MPs: 105, against 18, abstention 23. Articles 14 and 15 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u261	Under art. 16 there is a proposal from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. 16.2 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u262	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u263	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! "Guaranteed claims of employees." There are claims, there are no guarantees. For another year, I don't know how many years it's been, I think nine years now... I don't know by doing the same thing as how you expect me to say something different. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u264	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber. Talk to each other, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u265	Nine years in a row a zero contribution is planned for the Fund. It comes to a situation that for nine years has been guaranteed and paid claims to workers and employees, even for employers, some of whom have not made a single penny contribution to this fund. Not to mention that this fund is so passionately guarding it from change and the rules for payment of claims, which makes it difficult to access the money in the Fund with a single objective of having enough funds to have no motive to repay it. The parliamentary committees appointed to solve the problem are not helping either. Again, I tell you: there is no guarantee! Don't you think we should do at least two things: First, to repay the contribution to the Fund as a start, for example 0,5%? Secondly, to facilitate access to funds from the Fund? The compensation received by the persons from the guaranteed claims of the employees of the Fund shall be granted to the employees and shall be frozen in the event of the insolvency of the employer. What prevents us from increasing it in such a way as to guarantee at least three average salaries for the country. There are plenty of funds in the Fund that are earmarked for precisely these purposes, not to be an inviolable fiscal reserve. This is our proposal with the colleague Svetla Bachvarova to increase the guaranteed claim of BGN 2,800, which is about three average salaries for the country. You keep this Fund, which is part of the fiscal reserve, and the people who have done honest work must wait and not be able to collect their salaries, even though they have faced incorrect employers, are now facing the injustice of the state. We will not support this proposal for another year not to contribute to the Guaranteed claims of employees and to freeze the maximum amount of guaranteed claims at 2013 levels 2014 I urge you to support our proposal, at least for increasing the guaranteed claims, because I know that you think like me, but party discipline does not allow you to support me. We will do a good deed for those people who have fallen into a position when they have worked but have not received their money, and we in no way, despite European directives and despite humanity, morality and humanity, are not helping them to get their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u266	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Konstantinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u267	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! We from GERB group will not support the proposal made by Mr. Gokov and Mrs. Bachvarova. I'm going to make a few arguments about this. First, Directive 2002/74 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 September 2002 in art. 3 lays down the possibility for Member States to introduce ceilings for payments to be borne by the guarantee authority. At the same time, according to the applicable European and internal rules, the decision on minimum and maximum amounts of guaranteed claims in the case of insolvency of the employer should take into account the minimum and average levels of income, the socially tolerated ratio of guaranteed claims relative to the level of remuneration, as well as the employer's contribution to the Guarantee Fund. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 23, para. 2 of the Law on guaranteeing claims of workers and employees in insolvency of the employer is clearly stated that the maximum amount cannot be less than two and a half minimum wages. In this sense, the proposal of the Chamber of Ministers is fully in line with the requirement of the Law and European legislation in this part. I would also like to point out that there is no country in the European Union where the guaranteed claim will amount to more than five minimum salaries, as is the proposal of Mrs. Bachvarova and Mr. Gokov. I'll pay attention to the numbers as well. At the moment for six months guaranteeing the claims at the current amount set out in the Law of the Ministry of Education from last year 1200 BGN, this means 7200 BGN. For those six months. The figures paid by the average claims paid per person for 2016 are BGN 4531 for 2015. BGN 3995. and for 2014 "Twenty-two hundred and fifty-fifty." That is, the figures show that we, at the present unacquired amount, cannot actually be absorbed even in half at the average amount of payment of the guarantee payments. The proposal of the Council of Ministers in this budget for state social security is that this amount should be BGN 1300, which, I repeat, is in line with the current Law and the European regulations. This is our justification, because of which we believe that the proposal of Mrs. Bachvarova and Mr. Gokov is economically unfounded, and also legally untenable. Last but not least, I would like to point out that, at such a high amount of compensation, if it is accepted, we are talking about compensation of the order of BGN 16 800, this is the proposal of the said gentlemen, that, in our view, is a serious reason for abuse which could arise in relation to this possible interest which would cause this high amount of compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u268	Thank you, Mr. Konstantinov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, just to say hello to our guests from elementary school Professor Ivan Batakliev from Pazardzhik. [[Applause.]] We're going to vote on art. 16. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. Vote 148 MPs: 55 against 73, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 16 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 102, against 40, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u269	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u270	Statements? I don't see any speeches. We are going to vote on the supported by the Commission art. Art. 17 and art. 18. They voted 148 MPs: 106, against 23, abstention 19. Articles 17 and 18 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u271	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u272	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of the division and paragraphs 1 and 2 which the Commission supports. Vote 149 MPs: 108, Against 19, abstention 22. The name and paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u273	According to § 3 there is a proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi, Hasan Ademov, Yordan Tsonev, Errol Mehmed, Adlen Shefket, Nighyar Jafer, Ahmed Ahmedov and Velislava Krasteva: In § 1 points 8 and 9a drop out. 2. create a new t. 29a: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 29a.............................................................................. 100, para. 1 after the words the sum of the number 50s is replaced by the number 75s and after the words the amount 50s is replaced by the number 25s. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova: The following amendments shall be made in § 3: 1. Eight out. 2. in t. 10 letter "in" cancels out. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. The following amendments and additions are made in § 3: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments shall be made: (a) the point (s) shall be deleted. (b) point (b) shall become the content of point (b) of point (b) of point (b) shall become the content of point 2. Point 10 is out. 3. Point 13 is out. 4. A t is created. 35: It's 34. In Transitional and Final Provisions, in § 6, para. 1 the words "35 per cent" and as of 1 July 2019 the words "from 1 July 2019" shall be removed. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In § 3 is created t. 35: It's 35. Paragraph 7b shall be inserted in Transitional and Final Provisions: .................................................................................. (1) Employment pensions granted before 31 December 2012 shall be revalued from 1 January 2018 and the individual person's coefficient shall be multiplied by the country's average monthly social security income for 2013, after which the pension amount shall be determined under the conditions and in the order of art. 70, 75 and 79. (2) The recalculation under para. 1 shall be carried out if this is more beneficial to the person. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3 by: "1." point 3 is amended as follows: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2, p. 2 the words defined according to their taxable income for the activity as a self-insuring person shall be deleted; (b) in para. 12 words. 3 and 5 and 5 are replaced by.......................................................................................................... Three, five, six, and 2. A t is created. 35: It's 35. Paragraph 53 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The pensions granted with a starting date until 31 December of the year in which the percentage under art. 70, para. 1 sentence first reaches 1,5, shall be recalculated annually from 1 July of each calendar year following the year of the pension award, with the corresponding percentage under art. 70, para. 1 sentence fourth. Employment accident and occupational sickness pensions shall be calculated annually from 1 July of each calendar year as the coefficient of art. 79, para. 1, t. 1 "3" is increased by the percentage of art. 70, para. 1 sentence third. The recalculated amount shall be determined without changing the income from which the pension is calculated, after which it is updated, revised and indexed, in accordance with the regulatory framework operating after the date of granting the pension. 2. The creation of para. 3: When recalculated in accordance with para. 2 amount of pension is lower than its amount before recalculation, increased by the percentage under art. 70, para. 1 sentence third, the pension shall be fixed at the higher amount.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u274	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u275	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! As I said earlier in my reply, the budget of state social security must guarantee the rights of the insured and increase the quality of the insured persons. With the proposals made in § 3, there is a serious retreat from guaranteeing workers' rights. I will mention some of them, and they are the proposed text. 8, which states that. 42, para. 2 is repealed. Thus, the right to compensation for temporary disability shall be reserved where it occurs before the termination of the contract, but that right shall be revoked if it occurs within 30 days of the termination. There's an imbalance between the one who would have gotten sick two days before his contract was terminated and the one who got sick two days after that date. The reasons for dropping the provision are illogical. In these, we read: "While taking into account the primary purpose of the compensation for temporary disability, to replace the missing income from work, as well as the fact that the persons with discontinued insurance in most cases are entitled to receive other payments, benefits for leaving the employer unemployed and other benefits from the employer, money benefit for unemployment from the DEA pension. After all, in these cases, in the current text of the Social Security Code in sentences two and three, we read: Cash benefits paid for temporary disability shall be reimbursed by the persons for the period for which they have been granted a pension or for which they have been paid a non-employment allowance. I'm going to justify the hypothesis itself. Where the employment relationship is terminated by mutual agreement of the parties to Article 3. 325 of the Labour Code, then the employer does not owe compensation to the worker. The only compensation the worker owes is in the case where he has not used his annual leave on art. 224. Another type of compensation is when the worker terminates of his own free will in the case of termination of employment with the request of the worker with notice or without notice in the case, he is still not owed any compensation. In cases where the employer owes compensation are the hypotheses when he terminates the employment relationship on the basis of art. 328 of the Labour Code, namely due to reduction of the volume of work, reduction of the state and all hypotheses of art. 328. It is for this reason that the Code of Social Security art. 42, para. 2 assumes that when persons receive the corresponding compensation, they are not entitled to that compensation for temporary disability. What are your motives and what are your arguments in this direction is not clear? In this regard, with regard to this proposal, I propose that it be repealed. My other proposal has to do with what you're saying. Ten, which I'm also suggesting is dropped. It regulates changes in art. 54b, supplementing para. 3 with the hypotheses of art. 331 of the Labour Code and the hypotheses of art. 107a of the Civil Service Act. In the reasons, you state that they are included in the provision because the termination is available when there is an agreement by the insured person. The current exclusion of these hypotheses from the scope of art. 54b, para. 3 is not a random pass and it's right. Although the adoption of the employer's proposal is a form of agreement and although it is associated somewhat with the hypotheses of art. 325, there is no identity between these two hypotheses. First of all, the initiative to end the relationship is always and only the employer. Secondly, in life terms, the reasons and reasons leading to the initiation of the termination and submission of proposals are of a different nature and, in this sense, the worker's consent is only a subjective element of the process, because here the initiative belongs to the employer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u276	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Colleagues, let's congratulate our guests today - members of the Club of People with Disabilities, Veliko Tarnovo. Let's tell them welcome! [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u277	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposals that we in our parliamentary group make are related to § 3 of the Social Security Code. The first thing I would like to say is that changes to the Code of Social Security when adopting the budget of state social security are made in texts that have a relationship to the budget of state social security, only the proposals made have no relation to the budget of state social security, and they are proposals of a completely different nature. It just came up about a t. 8 For the cancellation of the compensation when the employment service is terminated. It is about compensation for the use of temporary disability within 30 days of termination of the employment relationship. I will not comment on this subject. Enough arguments have been said, but the fiscal effect of this measure is, notice, 700 thousand. lv. If 700,000. lv. by the end of September are a problem of the 12-billion-dollar budget of state social security, colleagues, agree that there is no logic in dropping this compensation. Moreover, this compensation does not receive people who receive unemployment benefits who receive retirement and age benefits. Next, we propose to drop out and so on. 9a of § 3. This t. 9a refers to an extension of the deadline required to receive unemployment benefit. Notice that the text so far says that in the last 15 months you should have 9 months of insurance contribution, insurance service, and now this period is extended from 9 months to 12 months in the last 18, that is, in other words, seasonal workers, farmers will in no way be able to fulfil this additional aggravating condition and will not be able to benefit from the right of compensation if they do not find, of course, another job. More important than the proposals we make, however, not that these are irrelevant, is the proposal we are making to create a new item. 29a. Honourable Members, we are talking about amendments to the Code of Social Security, in art. 100, where we change the ratio in the so-called gold Swiss rule from 50 to 50 to 75 to 25 in favor of the growth of the insurance income. Why are we making this offer? Because over the past ten years, there has been a tangible, noticeable growth in the insurance income, which, in our view, must be reflected in the so-called Golden Swiss rule. It's not a holy cow, if I may say so. The Golden Swiss rule has been modified over the years in other ratios, so with the state social security budget, we can change these indicators every year. There's nothing to be afraid of. This change will lead to that coefficient for a year of internship, which you do not support, but now you have the opportunity to support this proposal so that there can be a higher level of insurance protection for the Bulgarian pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u278	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Replies to Dr. Ademov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u279	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! With this § 3 of this Bill, you are changing the Social Security Code, and what changes do you make?! All of the workers' labour rights forfeited! Don't you dare launch these changes as a normal legislative initiative to change the Social Security Code to a normal discussion with both the social partners and to discuss them in the National Assembly committees and in the plenary because it will polish your antisocial nature and do so through the transitional and final provisions of the state social security budget with the intention of going quietly and without much, much noise. I will not comment on them long and wide these waivers of rights, but I can't help but mention some of them, because all your legislation and budgeting is restrictive. For example, again with an argument to reduce costs, the requirements for access to unemployment benefits are changing more internships, as well as in the amount of periods of receipt, shorter periods. All your legislation and budgeting is restrictive. It's said to save 63 million. BGN, but at the expense of people's social security rights and at the expense of trust in the system. The other thing you are proposing is that temporary disability, due to general illness, occupational accident or occupational disease, occurred up to 30 calendar days from termination of the employment contract or insurance, the cash compensation should be paid for the period of incapacity, but not more than 30 calendar days. You're canceling that. I will support the proposals that have been made under the texts of the Law on the repeal of these texts. However, I hope that one of the importers or Mr. Minister will stand up and protect these written texts and answer the questions why the rights of the insured are revoked. I will focus on the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. What does this proposal need to be made within the framework of the alternative budget of state social security for 2018, which the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted? It is imperative that in the policies regarding the size of pensions and their updating for 2018, there is nothing new, i.e. from GERB and "United Patriarchs" of Haber will not respond to the expectations of the public to increase the adequacy of the size of pensions. Koörfishek proved the promises of both Patriots and GERB for recalculation and for a significant increase in pensions. This significant increase will not take place despite populism and slogans, because there is no political will to seriously increase these pensions. The proposal of the importers of the 2018 budget and subsequent years does not provide for an increase in the existing pensions, other than the update. The coefficient of each year of insurance service in the pension formula will increase from 1,126 to 1,169 with a whole 0.043 per cent and will remain far from the expected 1,5, and this does not result in a significant increase in the amount of pensions expected by society. From the left, we continue to argue that these symbolic 3.8% do not solve the problem of increasing differences between old and new pensions, and this creates injustice and conflict between generations. We do not take such an approach. It is inconclusive for people that with these 3.8% increase in pensions, inflation is compensated and it will be enough to live at least as well as they lived in 2017, and that is nearly 2 million and 200,000 Bulgarians. Everyone in this country must be aware that it is impossible with 200 leva. monthly, receiving a million and a half Bulgarian pensioners, buying food and medicine and living normally. Once again, we are warning you that increasing the age and internship of acquiring the right to retirement, combined with maintaining the certain low levels of pension size, accompanied by the uncertainty of the yield of supplementary pension insurance and unread actions such as increasing only the minimum pensions, increasing skepticism and distrust in the system and leading to demotivation and denial of insurance. Therefore, you must accept immediately our proposal to recalculate pensions from 1 January 2018, with the individual person's coefficient multiplied by the country's average insurance income for 2013. This recalculation of all pensions granted by 2013, by the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria and we consider it a first step towards overcoming the differences between old and new pensions. After the increase of the minimum pensions of 165 BGN. 200 leva. This measure will require about 750 million. BGN, and without speculation that billion and up are needed. In refusing the majority to support the proposal, you will strengthen the trend established since 2013 for reducing the real growth of pensions, the coefficient of substitution of the capital and the net and the average pension in Bulgaria will again be very close, even ridiculously close, to the poverty line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u280	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Replies to Mr. Gokov's statement. I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Moving on to the vote on § 3. First, we will vote on the unsupported proposals. We are voting first on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 144 MPs: 63, against 60, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska, which the Commission does not support. Vote 148 MPs: 60 against 66 abstentions 22. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. Vote 158 MPs: 62, against 86, abstention 10. The proposal is not supported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u281	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm asking for a re-vote procedure because there were technical problems with the consoles.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u282	The proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova is subject to re-voting their unsupported proposal. Vote 166 MPs: 65, against 93, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 173 MPs: for 67, against 73, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 3 with the proposal made by an importer supported by the Commission. Together with § 3, we are voting and the proposal supported by the Commission by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. Vote 174 MPs: for 105, against 55, abstain 14. The proposal was adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u283	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4 and § 5. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 6 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 3, item 3. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer referred to in Annexes 1 to 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u284	Are there any statements on the so read text and paragraphs? I won't. First, I put to the vote § 4 and § 5 which the Commission supports. Vote 172 MPs: 111, against 22, abstention 39. The proposals have been accepted. We are now voting on the proposal to reject § 6 as it is reflected in its systematic place. They voted 166 MPs: 106, against 21, abstention 39. The proposal was adopted on the Commission report. Now we vote § 7, which becomes § 6, and § 8, which becomes § 7. Those paragraphs are supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: 106, against 52, abstention 11. The proposals have been adopted under the Commission report. And we are now voting on Annexes 1 to 5, supported by the Commission. Vote 160 MPs: 102, against 52, abstention 6. Annexes 1 to 5 including the Commission Report have been adopted and thus the Law. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u285	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor to thank you for the adopted State Social Security Budget Act for 2018. It ensures the proper functioning of state social security in the following year. I am convinced that this budget finds the optimal balance, on the one hand, between increasing the adequacy of basic social security payments and, on the other hand, improving financial sustainability, of the financial stability of the insurance system. It is a little bit affected here in the debate, but I think the big news of this budget is that when raising these minimum social security payments, which are determined by the Budget Act, at the same time the share of financing transfers from the central budget to cover expenditure in the state social security budget is reduced to 40%. Only two years ago, in the 2015 budget, the State participated in the financing of state social security costs by 50.4%. This is important because it reduces the dependence of the social security system on the state budget, which is one of the principles of self-sufficient, specific social security. At the same time, I would like to focus on two more numbers. In the budget you have just voted on, the income from insurance contributions, the total income of state social security is 920 million more than the budget for last year. Yes, the revenue plan is expected to be overrun this year by about 360 million, but 560 million is more than expected, and this is not a symbolic revenue growth. The growth in relative terms is 16.3%. At the same time, with the planned expenditure on the state social security budget, they are 690 million more than the budget for this year, the 520 million is more for pensions and 170 million is more for short-term benefits. I would like to draw attention only to another link, because the relationship between the insurance system and the labour market is very important, and the policies in these two areas must be coordinated. It is a fact that the Bulgarian labour market has been experiencing a severe shortage of labour lately. The demand significantly exceeds the supply and, in these conditions, policies relating to absence from the labour market must, for certain reasons, be consistent with this. They should encourage the faster return of parents, unemployed people to the labour market, because he needs them. If we are looking for reservations in improving supply, it is also that we need to better combine people's personal and professional lives so that they can really return to the labour market and at the same time have responsible parenting towards children. I listened carefully to the entire budget debate. For me, as a minister, he is very useful in forming future policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u286	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u287	Colleagues, to be more precise, we need to go back to the State Social Security Bill for a while and re-vote. I'll read your text now. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3 together with the Commission's proposal to amend point 3. 3 and creating t. 35 as reported by the Commission for greater precision. Please, voting mode. They voted 111 MPs: 81, against 18, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. Thank you, colleagues. Moving on to: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR THE BUDGET OF NATIONAL HEALTH CACUS FOR 2018 Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u288	Thank you, Madam President. I ask for a procedure: Professor Kamen Plotchev, Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund, Mrs. Desislava Gaidarova, Secretary General of the Casata, and Mrs. Women Nacheva, Deputy Minister of Health and Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u289	Please vote on the so-called tolerance procedure. They voted 130 MPs: 125, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u290	Madam President, honourable Members! Before we start the budget, I shall make a procedural proposal: on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 to extend the deadline for proposals between first and second readings under the Law on Safe Use of Nuclear Energy until 6 December 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u291	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 131 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u292	This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u293	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of the Law, which the Commission supports. Vote 134 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u294	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) in the table: - of row I. REVENUE AND TRANSFERS - on line one. Health insurance income the number - in row 1.1. Health insurance contributions the number - in row 1.2. Transfers for health insurance the number..1 262 2. in para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) in the table: - in line II. COSTS AND TRANSFERS - in row 1.1.3.3. dental health insurance payments the number..157 000,0. is replaced by.172 - in row 1.3.7. Sick care payments for hospital medical care number 1 824 560,7 - Row 1.1.3.7.1 is created: "1.1.3.7.1." of which: for treatment and long-term treatment 45,000.0 - in row 1.3. a reservation, including for unforeseen and urgent costs, the number - Row 1.3.1 shall be created: "1.3.1." including for the implementation of Decision No RD-NS-04-11/17.01.2017 of the Supervisory Board of the NHIF for the payment of reported and unpaid activity of hospital care contractors carried out during the period April 2016. "November 2016": - for medical activity 18 852.0; - for medical devices 400.3. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), 1. in para 1: - Row I "Accesses and transfers" everything 3 859 978,0 "to change" to "Accesses and transfers" all 3 879 978,0 "Accesses and transfers" - Row one. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. - Row 1.1 "Health contributions 2 556 292.0 " to change to "Health contributions 2 578 292.0 ". 2. in para 2 - Red II. Costs and transfers supplied 3 859 978.0supposed to change in supplicates and transfers all 3 879 978.0s; - Row one. "Costs 3 858 395,0" to change to "Currents 3 878 395,0" to change to "Currents 3 878 395,0" to "Currents 3 878 395,0" to "Currents 3 878 395,0" to change to "Currents 3 878 395,0" to "Currents 3 - Row 1.1. Current expenditures 3 738 840.7 to change in Current expenditures 3 758 840.7 to; - Row 1.1.3. "Health insurance payments 3 665, 060,7" to change to 1.1.3. 'Health payments 3 685 060,7'; - Row 1.1.3.1. Health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care 207 200,0 to change 1.1.3.1. health insurance payments for primary outpatient medical care 217 200,0 Row 1.1.3.2. Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ampulator) monitoring, 222 300,0 Health insurance payments for specialized outpatient medical care (including for complex dispensary (ampulator) surveillance 227 300,0 Row 1.1.3.4. Health insurance payments for medical-diagnostic activity 83 000,0 to change to 1.1.3.4. Health insurance payments for medical-diagnostic activity 88 000,0 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 after row 1. 3. create new rows 1.3.1., 1,3.2., 1.3.3. and 1.3.4.: according to table. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) Adopts the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF) for 2018 by revenue and transfers all at a total amount of 3 859 978.0 thousand. BGN as follows: according to table. (2) Accepts the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 by expenditures and transfers all at total amount 3 859 978.0 thousand. BGN as follows: according to table. (3) Adopts the budget of the NHIF for 2018 with a balanced budget balance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u295	Statements? Here you go, associate professor. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u296	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to congratulate Mrs. Stoyanova on the way she read things. This should happen quickly, in the circle of the joke, naturally. Honourable Members, the proposed corrections are related to the fact that we have already had the opportunity to say at first reading that in this budget we do not find an idea, a concept, a strategy. We called it, I think very well,.... of the status quo. We have a deputy prime minister for the demographic crisis. And we do not have in the field of health, which is one of the main points of combating the demographic crisis, resource support, specific numbers. In this regard, we believe that the amount of health insurance contributions is highly underestimated. Why? Because in this period of 2018 we will have a raise of the minimum wage by very little, we will have an increase, and we already have an average wage. After all, in different statistics we have about a million uninsured people. We hope that we will be able to raise health insurance contributions from these people. We therefore believe that the revenue part of the budget, as far as health insurance contributions are concerned, may be increased. On this basis we even achieve, according to our estimates, a reduction in the transfer from the Ministry of Health, i.e. from the state budget by 89 million. lv. Why are we talking about the demographic crisis? Because what can we do in health care? A few things. The first is to help the obstetrics and gynecology wards in the country. Those who were interested and, luckily, had a reach for good things, the birth of heirs, grandkids and had contact with obstetrician gynecologists know that the so-called Dear colleagues, BGN 580, believe me, it is not enough for all expenses of one birth. It is the same in cases where birth is complicated and blood transfusions and other expensive things are required. That's why we want in these estimates with the numbers we propose to enter an increase in the birth path by 100 BGN. Colleagues, specialists obstetricians, MPs told me: "No, there are few of them. " - Yes, I know that there are few because 680 BGN. It's not enough either. However, this is at least one step that we will try to take with this scarce budget. Secondly, serious problems have the Bulgarian citizens in raising their children. God forbid your child gets sick. Then, because of the state of the health system, you are forced to pay extra money out of your pocket, because hospitals, the healing network do not have the necessary resources to carry out the treatment of children as it should be. A few days ago, we had a round table and those who attended by the Committee on Health and Experts got acquainted with the opinion of the professional guild in the field of pediatrics. They said they didn't have pediatricians anymore because they couldn't pay them, they couldn't treat children properly because they didn't have the means. We propose to lift the trails in pediatrics and neonatology by 15%, which, by our calculations, can provide a sum of about 15 million. lv. God forbid you have a close child who was born prematurely and should be raised in neonatology. Most of you who have had this touch know that there are medications that provide the breathing of this child and better prospects in raising it, only they cost almost 3,000. lv. As much as the path is. Therefore, medical institutions, whether public or private, do not allow themselves, or very precisely, to use these modern funds. We want to help them. Perhaps this is the number one problem in hospital healthcare. Increasing funds in the paediatric trails, which have been extremely underestimated in recent years. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Finally, here is Professor Plotchev, we are making the first move that we will evaluate in 2018. We have greatly reduced the reserve of the Casa, that is, we have redeployed it. Turns out he's under 3%. The National Health Insurance Fund can't have a reserve of less than 3%! I wish you would not face these problems in the health system and, in order not to encounter them, vote positively for them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u297	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Jaffer, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u298	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We have repeatedly had reason to say that this budget of the Health Insurance Fund will deepen the existing imbalance in the system. Our proposal is in the direction of trying to overcome one of these imbalances, namely to increase the funds for outpatient assistance. The proposal is to increase them by 20 million: 10 million. for primary outpatient care, i.e. for the GPS; 5 million for specialized outpatient care and 5 million for medical-diagnostic activities. It makes no sense for a declining population to have an increasing number of hospitalizations each year in the case of existing serious demographic problems. It is logical to give more funds for extra-hospital assistance for more research, for more directions right in this area. If we do a retrospective analysis, GERB have a particular attitude towards the reserves in the healthcare system. They make a proposal in the same direction as our proposal, but, notice, the source of their increased costs comes from the reserve of the Health Insurance Fund. I remind you that the health fund reserve this year has been reduced by 10% to 3%. They are now making a second proposal to take money from there again, to distribute now and to give more money in the amount of 27 million. I recall the time when you went to nothingness a large reserve of the Health Insurance Fund was a billion and 300 million. Colleagues, you have some intolerance to the health care system reserves, which is not a good sign. We think you're making a mistake leaving only 87 million in the Health Insurance Reserve for next year. I think it's a short time, and then you'll take that error into account. In this sense, we hope for reason, because the National Assembly should adopt solutions that solve problems and not deepen them. Our proposal is absolutely synchronized with what is proposed by the ruling coalition, but I think that the source that we offer, namely more health insurance revenues, will make the administration, officials do their job, be so good to collect more than the health-insured, than those who do not provide themselves, who avoid the system by being incorrect payers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u299	Thank you, dear Dr. Jaffer. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u300	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to comment on the amount offered for the part of the dental The sum of 157 million. lv. is extremely insufficient. This amount may be sufficient to cover up to date dental aid costs, but it cannot in any case be sufficient to cover the needs of the promised prosthetics of older people over 65 years of age. This amount, compared with the percentage, is lower than the 2017 budget. "4.85 of the money for health, at 4.28 this year. You claim that there are 10 million at stake in this amount. lv. for prosthetics of older people. Of 147 million. lv. a budget for 2017, we all know that there is a third activity. Obturation or extraction of a tooth, which was paid in 2017, for which the costs were nearly 7 million. BGN, or 147 million. BGN, plus 7 million. lv. For the third activity, a figure of 154, 5 million is de facto obtained. BGN, or the increase proposed this year, is only 2.5 million. lv. With this amount, at the price of a prosthetic 200 BGN, we can cover the cost of prosthetizing not more than 7 thousand adult patients, from people who need prosthetics, whether partial or total. We therefore propose that the budget be increased by 15 million. lv. To be taken from the Cashier's Reserve, with which it will become 172 million. lv. and by these means to cover the cost of prosthetic 37,000 Bulgarian patients, which is not enough, but can be a good start. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u301	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov. Are there any lines to Mr. Ibrishimov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u302	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to run a brief analysis of the revenue side of the National Health Insurance Fund budget. Four hundred and seven million more are predicted in revenue. If we carefully read these numbers, 128 million of them are the so-called "5% more" which are laid down by law. There are still 277 million left over from the National Health Insurance Fund project for 2017, i.e. the comparison of the 2017 project. 277 million more. It has only recently become known that the overrun of 2017 revenue is 106 million to date, and by the end of the year will probably be a little more, which means that only 177 million is increasing next year's revenue. In fact, it's the extra stuff that's given to the system. Everything else is at stake by law, first. Next, the outpatient assistance under the Cashier's draft budget for the next year, I say, under the Project 30 million more. Dr. Daritkova's offer makes 57 million more, 57 million more for outpatient care. The ratio of our parliamentary group is very often spoken of disproportions in this system between outpatient care, although a small step has been taken, in our opinion not so serious, is nearly 600 million, to a billion and 800 of hospital care. So the money for outpatient care is 600 million, and the money allocated to hospital care is a billion and 800. There is no such ratio anywhere in the European Union between outpatient and hospital care. As far as the drugs are concerned, there's a 200 million increase there, notice, 200 million more than last year. I'm not saying it's a lot, I'm not saying it's not enough, I'm just saying the fact that the drugs are already over a billion for next year and there's no guarantee that this money will be enough. A few words about the so-called "supposed." Honourable Members, with the proposals to constantly confuse in the reserve we discredit the idea of having such a reserve. What do I mean? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 of the Health Insurance Act states that the reserve funds pay costs in the event of significant deviations from the even spending of the health insurance funds. The resources from the reserve may be used from 31 March of the following year when and if the National Framework Treaty is adopted, if the National Framework Treaty on individual activities is signed. That is, with the adoption of Dr Daritkova's proposal, we are now saying that at the beginning of April there will be significant deviations from the even spending of the funds. We acknowledge ourselves that we will not be able to manage these funds first. Secondly, only yesterday, the National Health Insurance Fund's Supervisory Board distributed 108 million of the so-called Notice, 108 million! I'm not saying it's a lot, I'm not saying it's misaligned, I'm just saying it's $10 million, and next year, there's $87 million left in that reserve. What will you distribute, ladies and gentlemen, from the National Health Insurance Fund? What's the reserve? Well, God forbid, what if there's some serious epidemic or something? Where will additional funds be found when we presumably run out of cashier's reserve? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova looks at me mysteriously to tell me that there is a Public Finance Act that gives such an opportunity. However, I do not want us to come to this opportunity. I am now commenting on the Reserve of the Cashier. I see quite another, thin subtext in the proposal to give more money in extra-hospital assistance. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The signing of the National Framework Treaty is imminent. Colleagues from the Bulgarian Medical Union [[the President signals that time has run out]] and the other alliances must be encouraged in some way, they must wink at one eye to ensure the signing of the framework contract for next year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u303	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. A statement? Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u304	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Professor Plotchev, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues! We propose that the main budget of the National Health Insurance Fund be by 100 million. 552,000. lv. more and these are really fundraisers, which is what those who are talking in the first place said: "Enjoy it, gentlemen in charge, ready, fresh funds from the public health resources to leave them in the state budget and, slang speaking, to turn them into asphalt. We have 17 proposals for changes in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. With this we show that it is time to change the funding model and the distribution of the funds of the National Health Insurance Fund according to the current legal documents. One of these proposals is also related to the creation of the new clinical healing pathway. There is no such at the moment, despite the obvious need to offer this health service. The provided hospital stay on many paths is too short for the patient's final recovery. This often happens to prescribe prematurely untreated patients after severe surgery in unstable condition, which is associated with a risk to the health of the patient and complicated for their loved ones. The funds needed to open a healing path are, in our view, 45 million. lv. In our opinion, this is also the time to bet on such a policy, all the more so that the court has abolished a lot of legislation from your previous management, as well as canceled the National Health Card, all the more so that there is enough time to create and value the new clinical path until the signing of the new Framework Treaty in April. The benefits of revealing a healing path are, first of all, for patients, but they don't stop there. As we all know, numerous municipal hospitals are in difficult financial condition. A possible healing path is also opportunities for additional financing of municipal and such hospitals with public participation. At this stage, municipal hospitals and those with state participation may have a certain number of beds for healing along this clinical path. For example, if a municipal hospital is from three main wards, two beds in each main ward, there may be six such beds when there are five s are ten, and so on. We call on you to accept our proposal. In this way you will show that you also have a state attitude towards municipal and state health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u305	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u306	Dear Dr. Timchev, I'm making a line for your proposal. You've spent a lot of time explaining that you're offering a cure path. I have to tell you, this is extremely unrealistic, not just because there is no order in which this is written here. I understand your idea. There are two major missing links to the health care system right now. The first unit of prevention, screening and early diagnosis, and the last unit, which comes after outside hospital care, the last unit of palliative care and long-term care, as well as healing. Most of the hospitals in Bulgaria are burdened on nothing else, but because these two important units are missing. If prevention guarantees early diagnosis and therefore more effective treatment, the curing units of the hospice, the palliative care units would give the opportunity for decent healing and that the people of Bulgaria with severe diseases to go away worthy of this world. However, what you are proposing is unrealistic. We've been talking about prevention and screening for ten years. They have no reflection in this budget. I therefore believe that what you are proposing cannot happen, because neither the institutions nor the state have an idea of what to do with ensuring decent old age, and that people with cancer, severe chronic diseases, leave this world with dignity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u307	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u308	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The foolish and health managers of France decided that they had to make hospitals for healing and transformed a large part of their municipal hospitals into such hospitals because they felt that the alimony of an acute bed was much more than the alimony of a bed for healing. Colleagues, this is the meaning of the reform where we cannot provide sharp beds, beds for emergency treatment, we must have beds for healing. A significant part of Bulgarian citizens do not need emergency beds. They need beds to heal, and these are usually our fathers, our mothers. We have to give it to them. So, Dr. Timchev, I think this is the breath of air. We need to find the prospect of the development of municipal hospitals in hospitals for healing if we are to make such a reform as it is throughout the world. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u309	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Third line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u310	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dr. Jaffer! In the first part of your reply to me you supported the philosophy of why this clinical path is needed, and the next moment you say that at this stage this is not realistic. For me, at exactly this stage where our health care is located, which is frozen and funded by clinical pathways, it is realistic to reveal such a clinical path. If we are going to talk about a change in the model of financing health care in Bulgaria, then we should go to the clinically related groups and so on and so forth. But I am not optimistic that this will happen in the near future, and ultimately all of us here in this room are just saying in words that we are for a new model. But in this budget of the Cashier, it doesn't happen. Not even a hint of change. That is why I said at the beginning of my speech: these 17 proposals are an expression of the need for a change in the funding model. With regard to the fact that these clinical pathways should be mainly taken by municipal hospitals, this is a social service and municipal healthcare has its social commitment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u311	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u312	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I apologize for being up twice for the same procedure. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 I propose Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u313	I'm voting on Mr. Dobrev's proposal. They voted 139 people's ideas: 110, against 3, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. We are going back to the text discussed. Is there anyone else who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u314	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, during the review of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund at first reading almost all parliamentary groups turned with notes for more money for outpatient, as today we continue to appeal for this as a major remark, but I do not know how much it is being heard, with the presumption to satisfy the needs of primary, outpatient medical care for better functioning of the system................................................................................................................................... It is obvious that from the health care money in this part are dissatisfied both the GPS and the specialists in the hospital, and according to all the analyses in our country the extra-hospital assistance should be stimulated and occupy a greater share of the medical care in the country so that the hospital does not burden the hospital. Naturally, this would also lead to greater efficiency. However, in our country long ago, outpatient assistance cannot perform the functions that are expected of it. For this reason, every patient is seeking help in hospitals and is willing to pay for it and, unfortunately, is paying for it. This is also the data of the World Bank, because in this way more than 2 billion more. lv. They're circulating in the health care system. Here is a sample of the position of the National Association of General Practitioners in Bulgaria: We categorically disagree with the minimum increase of the defined budget for outpatient assistance in general and in particular symbolic, which can be defined as missing either 0,008% or 3,70 BGN. monthly for each practice of primary outpatient medical care. This is an extremely insufficient increase in this budget, or, to put it another way, this decision is fundamentally contrary to the priority policy defined in the National Health Strategy 2020, aimed at building and managing a fair, sustainable and effective health system oriented towards quality and results. We draw attention to the policy 2.4 of the National Health Strategy, namely: the development of primary outpatient assistance, supported by highly technologically specialised assistance, indicating that primary health care carried out by well-trained and motivated general practitioners and other medical professionals should be established as a key tool for overcoming the challenges facing our health system. They also recommend the World Bank Report. We really appeal for the first timid steps to be implemented at last by reducing the disproportions, as my colleagues have said before me, in the healthcare system, so that every single part of the health care service and hospital care can take on their functions and ultimately have a better functioning health system, efficiency and the funds that are collected in this area are spent as efficiently as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u315	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone who wants to. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u316	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to speak now, because then this conversation could somehow be politicized or set off in a direction that I wouldn't want to. It is quite clear that with so many doctors in this room, people like us should not, and it would not be right to speak on policies, sizes, paths, positive lists. There are plenty of experts in this area. What I would like to say very quickly. The leading role in this bill must be the Health Commission. This must be absolutely clear to everyone. It's only natural that way. I'm gonna do the crime part. I will try to answer the questions as to what the mandatory reserve of medicines should be, what the control should be............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u317	That's not the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u318	I know it's not about not being politicized. I'll try to explain everything in two minutes or the scandal will happen later. My fellow Members, I suggest the following thing to you. The path of medicines passes through importers, passes through distributors the relevant network to reach the patient. The fact is, people are angry, they came to our Commission that the drugs are short. I have one proposal for you, which I can tell you very briefly and quickly: there are a billion for medicines, another 400 million coming in, going abroad and making huge profits. The proposal I have, which I have written down to present to you, is this. It would be good instead of trying to make certain people feel criminals just because they have imported or exported, we cannot forbid them, some people to feel guilty that they have not been approached with the drugs, and the state is obliged to provide them, to think about them, and it is the duty of another Commission to avoid this criminal part with the lack of medicines to patients who are not responsible for it. It can be done in a very easy way both the state reserves determine their size, as the fuels determine their mandatory size, and the importers in Bulgaria, all who are willing to have one size of three months. When they exceed it, they can export and import whatever they want to do. But this three-month size to remain, to be declared and to be controlled in Bulgaria. Then there will never be a shortage of drugs, because at any point in force major we have three months in which we will have the time. I'm doing this not to politicize myself, not to accuse someone, but to say that this problem has a solution. People expect it from us. Of course, the debates on the Law should continue. I'd be happy if we all voted it out in the end. I'll support him myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u319	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. With a warning, we deliberately broke the rules. I'm sorry, I didn't know how far or how the speaker would explain it, but we're moving on. Are there any lines to the statement? Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u320	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear gentlemen and ladies of the House, dear Mr. Dimitrov! I support your opinion that experts should speak on health issues. There is a concrete proposal on the Ministry's website for re-export control. I assume that this proposal of yours has not been well considered for this three-month period, even though it is not in the debate what we are talking about right now. But since you took the liberty of saying that, there must be one misunderstanding. It is deeply impossible for many reasons. You do not know the way of production, the distribution of these drugs, especially some of them, which are strategic. I can tell you that there is currently a lack of strategic anti-tumor medicine. Colleagues are calling from all over the country asking what to do. We will bring this matter to the management of the NHIF. So when you offer something, even with a good intention, I ask you to consult with the experts first, so that it does not come out as something that is of good intention, but can not be done in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u321	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u322	I don't know why you're doing this. Looks like every good intention you've got is going down the drain. But I have to ask you: if you are so experts and you understand things very well, why are there currently no medicines available in the pharmacy network? The people who go and want to buy, they won't. They're waiting. What? You think they have money to buy it abroad? They don't. The state didn't give it to them. If you understand things so much, why are we raising this debate today? You meant to, but have you been missing drugs since yesterday or for years? For many years there have been no drugs, and for many years this problem has come to light. As far as the strategic reserve is concerned, the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks is having a problem refreshing these medicines. The three-month period is a time when the state can have guaranteed amounts to treat people. They don't care about these strategic problems. They're interested when they get into the pharmacy to buy medicine. We don't have a mandatory minimum reserve that importers should have. And even when they have minimal quantities, they rush to move them abroad because they make huge profits. This thing is happening. If no one saw him, we can tell you. There's a record of it in the committee. He also has an opinion of the Attorney General. There is also an opinion that there are no sanctions in the Penal Code and, when someone commits such an act, they cannot take responsibility for it and are trying to launder money....................................................................................... It is precisely because experts have spoken and so far have created such a regime that everyone can import and export vital medicines, they do not reach the pharmacy network. It's not your fault. There are huge profits. And at the end of the day, with a billion drug-supplied, we have another 400 million for drugs that go around going in and out because of the huge profit. No one blames importers, but let them have the commitment, as all other industries have it, to have some minimum quantities to work with. And in conclusion, when you enter the doctor's office, no one immediately goes to order you from somewhere the medicines to treat you, and they're in the doctor's office. That reserve's in there. Let the importers have the duty. They're very good people, and we don't blame them. Have a minimum reserve. The Agency should monitor them and monitor whether they comply with them. When they have surplus quantities, let them move abroad. Otherwise, I agree that you have a lot of ideas, but to date, there are people who suffer for not having medicines. Turn your ideas into business. We'd love to.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u323	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. For the procedure Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u324	I'll start with a procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I implore the Assembly's leadership to adhere strictly to the Rules of Procedure, given the hard work that lies ahead of us on budgets. [[Partial applause from GERB]] because the subject of medicines and parallel exports is not at all the subject of today's debate. And I believe that its introduction really leads to delusion. Health topics are understandable to each of us, they are close to each one of us, but really the expertise is important and the time of the National Assembly should be appreciated, we should follow the procedures for voting on a budget, because everything else dissolves the debate and is in no way beneficial to the Bulgarian citizens. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u325	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. After the agreement the speaker made, we expected him to return to the subject at any moment. That didn't happen. I take that as a legitimate remark. We'll try not to let her in again. You have the floor of speech, which you said before the procedure. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u326	Dear colleagues, I am now coming to the topic of the debate at the moment, namely the proposals for adjustments to the parameters of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which I have made and which are in line with the Programme and the National Strategy for Strengthening Outpatient Medical Assistance and with the opinion of the Slovenian organizations. However, our approach is different. We are betting on the budget balance and predict from the operational reserve to give seven million more for primary outpatient medical care, seven million for specialized outpatient medical care, three million for medical diagnostic activity and 10 million additional for dental activities. With these funds a total increase in feathers becomes: 14 million more for the following year for primary outpatient medical care, 18 million more for specialized outpatient medical care, 5.5 million more for medical diagnostic activity, 20 million more for dental activity. Yes, the funds in the ratio of the increase of hospital care and medicinal products are insufficient, but this is a step forward and I hope the reasonable spending after signing the mechanisms on which these funds will be used for health services of the Bulgarian citizens provided, to allow for really greater access to treatment, early prevention and diagnosis precisely in the outpatient medical care. The increase in funds in hospital care and in medicinal products ensures the stable functioning of these sectors as well. Why do I think our proposal is more reasonable and rational? Because we don't change the revenue side of the budget. In any case, the institutions that have prepared the budget have provided for what revenues can be provided as much as possible. If there is additional revenue, the Supervisory Board may, during the course of the year, redistribute them accordingly to the need for expenditure. From the point of view of the operational reserve, which is being reduced to 3% this year, this is the intention to balance the spending of the individual budget parameters, because always until now all participants in the health insurance system had focused their attention precisely on this operational reserve. In most cases, it has been spent so far on hospital care and medicinal products. We also give the opportunity to ensure the participation of other types of medical care in the allocation of the reserve. This action to allocate the reserve is not innovative. I will remind you of the 2014 budget of the National Health Insurance Fund with Minister Tanya Andreeva when payments for hospital aid for 2013. A very innovative budgetary decision. [[Reply of National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] I am not saying that this is a practice that needs to be repeated, but within the framework of our proposal, I believe that rationality is preserved and also the direction of investment in extra-hospital aid. All the other topics that have been affected today are the topics for the use of clinical pathways, remedies, unfortunately, honourable Members, have no place here in this Law. Because it is clearly stated in the Health Insurance Act that the fees, prices and methodologies for medical use are subject to the National Framework Agreement. We don't set prices for clinical pathways here. We set global budgetary parameters. [[Reply of National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] On the other hand, we can really talk about changing the pattern. The funding under this Law is solidarity. The health contribution is 8%. The other model of providing medical services is also not the subject of a debate in this Law, but by giving a stable financial framework for the next year by 407 million more, with the allocation of more funds on the individual parameters of the budget, we ensure that the debate on finding a better way to provide medical care can be successful and really have an effective health system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u327	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Here you are, Dr. Yordanov, you have the floor for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u328	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dr. Daritkova, you have been repeating for a long time as a mantra that when we look at the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we should not look at clinical paths because they are subject to the National Framework Treaty. Dr. Daritkova, we are looking at the amount of funds that will go into this paragraph, called the clinical pathways. The manager of the National Health Insurance Fund said: "We will not cut the price on any path. We'll increase it to the undervalued. By what means, Dr. Daritkova? That is why we want to increase the amount of funds in hospital care that go for clinical pathways to provide with motives what we want to do about the problem, pediatrics, births. It's connected. Understand that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u329	Prices and volumes shall be agreed in the framework contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u330	Thank you, Dr. Yordanov. For a second line, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u331	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Dr. Daritkova! I agree with your statement, but you have made several misses, which I cannot help but note. I will refer specifically to dental aid, where the initial increase in next year's amount is 10 million. The activities that this year take place in older people over 18 years of age are also three. That's how it's gonna be next year. Six and a half million are foreseen, which is 2.6% increase compared to this year and they will be quite sufficient. With the proposal that you are making to increase another 10 million in dental aid, this money will quite calmly be enough for the intended fourth work for elderly people in the field of prosthetics. In addition, this activity will be phased into age limits. Thank you for your attention. I want you to take account of what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u332	Thank you, Mr. Papasimov. For the third line, Professor Mihailov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I want you to accept our proposals, which are made with the best intentions, unpoliticized. Here I would like to point out to the honourable audience that, in fact, all the paragraphs, including the closing provisions, of this Law, which we are now discussing, are related to each other. You rightly pointed out that some of the things that have been commented by colleagues in the Chamber are related to the structure of the National Framework Treaty, which is yet to be formed, but in § 11 practically, on a proposal from the importer, virtually all options for comment on the National Framework Treaty are eliminated. In my professional opinion, it should literally become a picture of the 2017 contract and with this paragraph, which we will be commenting on in a moment. That is why colleagues have allowed themselves in their speeches now to pay attention to certain details, so that when we subsequently get to the discussion of this paragraph and its paragraphs, we can find the political, non-partisan consensus and not freeze this picture for the financial year 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u334	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u335	Dear colleagues, I really am for consensus, for the search for solutions that are outpartisan. However, here the topic really is the size and parameters of the Cashier's budget - 360 million has more for hospital care. If you support our proposal next year to pay the activities only where they are not presented, we will have the opportunity with this 360 million to balance the values of the clinical pathways and to revalue and increase the prices of those who are not well valued so far. They're famous, they've been quoted by you. By the way, there is a path for continued treatment, only it is at a low price and most hospitals do not implement it. Here, too, we will intervention precisely with the additional funds. On the other hand, the Cashier's Budget Act gives only the framework. The contents, the medical care package, are determined by other mechanisms. The volumes, the means of providing medical assistance, the clinical pathways are subject to negotiation under the Health Insurance Act between the Medical Union and the word organization. These are the principles of the Health Insurance Act. In this case, with these budget parameters they do not change.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u336	Thank you. Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman! I think the debate has been quite fruitful. I think everyone already has reason enough to have shaped their opinion and to know how to vote. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria. Revelations: "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I propose a procedure to end the debates under art. 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u338	It's a counterproposal. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! There are statements that have been made. We from the opposition want to continue this debate because it is an important, key debate. I believe that you, as a democratic party, will respect this opinion, all the more so that, here in Parliament, it is today that we are gathered to discuss the budget and every opinion must be heard. We are making a counterproposal to continue the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u340	There's been a procedural proposal. I put to the vote the motion to put an end to the debate. Vote 173 MPs: 93, against 74, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u341	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-voting procedure. Personally, I didn't get a chance to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u342	Please re-vote. We are voting on the motion to end the debate. Vote 180 MPs: 96 against 78, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. I'm closing the debate on art. 1. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a proposal not supported by the Commission, by the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs. Vote 181 MPs: 77, against 75, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 184 MPs: 77 against 80, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on Dr. Daniela Daritkova's proposal, which has been adopted, supported, and is included in the text proposed by the Commission. We are voting on the text of the Commission, which includes Dr Daritkova's proposal. Vote 176 MPs: for 103, against 66, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u343	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 2 and for Art. 2 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u344	Are there any statements on the texts for art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the discussion. We are going to vote on both texts. We shall vote on the wording of art. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3. Vote 181 MPs: 115, against 54, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u345	Article 4 of the importing proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) Within the values of art. 1, para. 2, row 1.1.3.5.2, row 1.1.3.6 and row 1.1.3.7. for the application of art. 55a of the Health Insurance Act and of the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2018, and when not adopted in the decision under art. 54, para. 9 of the Health Insurance Act: 1. The NHIF Supervisory Board shall: (a) establish for each RIF an annual total cost of health insurance payments distributed by month; (b) establish cost values in accordance with point (a) and in the case of hospital care providers distributed by months on a proposal from the directors of the RHIF; (c) monitor, analyse and adjust the value of the costs referred to in (a) and (b) quarterly. 2. Directors of the RHIF: (a) propose to the Supervisory Board of the NHIF the cost values under point 1. 1 (a) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) 1 letters...................................................................................................................................................................................... (b) purchase from the performers of hospital medical care volume of health activities from the package under art. 2, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act within the values of item 1. point (a) is replaced by the following: (c) analyse and report on a monthly basis to the Supervisory Board of the NHIF their activities under points (2) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall analyse and control the values under para. 1, t. 2 (a) (ii) (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (3) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall monitor and control the activities under para. 1, t. 2 (b) monthly and quarterly. (4) The Supervisory Board of the NHIF shall adopt rules on the conditions and arrangements for implementing para. 1, 2 and 3. (5) The arrangements for monitoring, analysis and control of the implementation of the volumes under art. 55a of the Health Insurance Act and the values under para. 1 of the performers of hospital medical care shall be defined in the National Framework contract for medical activities for 2018, and when not adopted in the decision under art. 54, para. 9 of the Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u346	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the text of the Commission for art. 4. Vote 168 MPs: 106, against 58, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u347	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u348	Here's a negative vote. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u349	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I take the floor for a negative vote, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, because it is said that the Supervisory Board of the NHIF monitors and controls the values under para. 1, t. 2 (a) / (b) / (c) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) / (d) And I don't know why, since there is a decision of 17 January 2017 NHIF to pay the excess work of hospitals in the amount of BGN 19 million who controls her that she does not pay for this subliminal activity? I think hospitals have a legitimate right to protest about this and that the need for an over-limitist activity is hiding the truth that hospitals are not draining the Casa, but the Casa is draining the hospitals because the Constitution says that patients or emergency patients cannot be hospitalized. Once it is done, it must be paid. There are no limited and subliminal patients. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u350	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. We'll continue with the report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u351	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u352	Are there any statements under § 1 and the name of the Transitional and Final Provisions? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We are going to vote on the name and § 1. Vote 160 MPs: 110, against 44, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u353	According to § 2 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2, as in para. 3 the NHIF Governor shall be added after approval by the NHIF Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u354	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of the importer for § 2, together with the proposal of the Commission for Appendix in para. 3. Vote 156 MPs: 104, against 50, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u355	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 3, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u356	Are there any statements under paragraphs 3, 4 and 5? I can't see. I'm closing the discussion. Moving to vote on paragraphs 3, 4 and 5. Vote 159 MPs: for 103, against 51, abstention 5. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u357	Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: Paragraph 6 is to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... (1) In 2018, the NHIF shall not pay for medicinal products with a new international non-proprietary name for which an application for inclusion in the positive drug list under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 or 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, as well as included in the positive drug list of medicinal products under art. 262, para. 6, p. 1 or 2 of the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which is subject to payment for the first time in 2018. (2) The provision of para. 1 shall not apply to generic medicinal products and to medicinal products under art. 29 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u358	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u359	Dear President, honourable Members, I declare that I have no conflict of interest. The moratorium under this paragraph sixth is a recognition of the helplessness of the institutions, of the state, of the administration to deal with the problem of the trend of funds for medicinal products. Helplessness and recognition that they cannot implement mechanisms to control the growing costs of medicines and transfer responsibility to the National Assembly. We cannot stop the development of high technology, medical science, fellow Members! What do we do by forbidding new molecules to be paid in one year? What are we gonna do in a year? Patients waiting for the appropriate medication will become double, triple! That is why we believe that the mechanisms with which the state can withstand these costs have not been exhausted. We offer several steps that are realistic and which can result in these costs being withheld. First of all, continuing to negotiate concessions mechanisms, including sanctions for pharmaceutical companies that exceed a certain amount for the drug concerned. Secondly, the clarification of the Commission's work on the assessment of health technologies. In third place, progeny policy. You're actually taking a step in this direction, but that won't solve the problem. We believe that we are convinced that the propaganda policy will release more resources to treat another group of patients with innovative, new molecules because they are waiting for them. We are also convinced that with administrative techniques no problem in the system will be solved. Recall the introduction of limits for medical institutions! This restrictive, administrative measure resulted in one result in the deficit of the Health Insurance Fund being transferred as a deficit to the medical institutions and there are currently much more than 500 million unpaid costs. There's no way to stop the development of medicine. Another point is that institutions must use all the power they have and implement the mechanisms that are currently available as long as they want to do so. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u360	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see a reply request. Professor Mikhailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, Mrs. Nacheva, dear Professor Plotchev! I would like, if I may, to gather the attention of the respected audience at the moment and to draw attention to some very serious points concerning this § 6. In the history of Bulgaria since 1989, regardless of all the difficulties the country has experienced, never, under any circumstances, the state, regardless of who was managing during this short period, has not allowed itself to close the door for innovative medicines that give an option for treating life-threatening diseases of Bulgarian citizens. In practice, this means refusing a policy in this area of healthcare and will put the patience of Bulgarian citizens at a limit. As early as yesterday's news of national media, you have probably seen that there are protests by patient organisations in front of representatives of the missions of the EU countries in this particular direction. Perhaps the honourable audience knows that the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria has also submitted this paragraph to the Constitutional Court. I would like to share in particular, since we already have a discussion on this issue in the Commission, that this attempt to make a disversance to generic means deserves attention, but we need the honourable audience to know one thing: generic medicines do not constitute a new option, they represent a copy of already existing treatment modules, while innovative medicines do not have an analogue for their treatment and although they are not the first option at the beginning of the therapeutic chain, at a certain stage in the patient's development, I do not wish anyone to have the fate, to have a loved one who needs and can be influenced by such a form of treatment, this possibility to be taken away from him. Moreover, I would like to share with the honourable Members that all Bulgarian citizens who will be deprived of this opportunity will wish to receive the appropriate protocol from the National Health Insurance Fund and to implement this treatment outside the territory of the country, which will cost Bulgaria much more than if this opportunity is given here within the country. It is the National Health Insurance Fund with its institutions, with its structures that filter, namely the Commission in prices and reimbursement, precisely the Commission in the assessment of new technologies is the place where it is necessary to assess whether it is possible to nominate a preparation to enter and be used for the treatment of such life-threatening diseases. Therefore, I warmly call on both the management body of the National Health Insurance Fund and especially honourable Members to seriously consider, as this will also unleash an avalanche of cases. Keep in mind that as oncologists and oncohematologists we have faced the problem when Bulgarian citizens raise the question that they are entitled to treatment, which is in modern therapeutic standards as an option and the state is obliged to provide it, we cannot refuse it and this would create the hypothesis that hospitals should somehow be obliged to find a way out of the situation for their financial account. I therefore urge, in the name of the above-party consensus in medicine, that we seriously consider and support the proposal of our colleagues from the DPS to drop this paragraph. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u362	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Here you are, Professor Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u363	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This is one of the most important texts in the proposed Draft of the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund. Why am I saying this? Because this text, in the way it is proposed, deprives one part of Bulgarian citizens who have such a problem from innovative medicinal products. We in the Movement for Rights and Freedoms propose that this paragraph should be dropped because we do not accept the approach. We cannot take such an approach in any way. This one first. The fact that the importer's original proposal is in a way that excludes generic and bio-like preparations means that it is not entirely correct and well-intentioned because the original text excluded both generics and bio-like preparations. Next, honourable Members, if the proposed change is adopted, the National Health Insurance Fund will be able to pay in 2018 new substitutes for medicines already paid, but will not be able to pay new medicines without a substitute. Do you understand what this is about? Currently, about 20 new therapies will be affected, all of them have been evaluated by the Health Technology Commission. This committee recommended them to the Committee on Positive Drug List. At some point, there is a moratorium that says: "So much for new medicinal products! " Dear colleagues, new medicinal products are a new higher degree of therapeutic options. We cannot in any way take away, as colleagues said just now, the right of Bulgarian citizens to be treated with modern preparations, with modern technologies. If we have the administrative inability to control overcosts, I am convinced that there are enough mechanisms in legislation to control overcosts and we do not use them, this means that we should not proceed to the drastic measure of cutting and imposing a moratorium. Progeny policy cannot be confused with what is currently being proposed. Because the pro-generative drug policy is to promote the use of economically more beneficial preparations, and the choice is between many preparations. Generators can be several types, from several companies, from several manufacturers, while innovative medicines that do not have an analogue, simply their patent protection does not allow them to produce generic preparations. Do you understand what this is about? In pro-generation policy you can choose between a few replacements, and with innovative ones there is no such option because they have patent protection and there is no substitute. That is why we propose that this paragraph be dismissed. I am convinced that a large part of the majority feel that way. Dear colleagues, stand on the side of Bulgarian patients, because in this case they are important, not even voters alone. What's important is the patients who need innovative drugs. Once again, the interest of patients should be above all else, because I can tell you from personal experience here that Mr. Vejdi Rashidov can also tell you what it is about when a person faces such an administrative barrier called Moratorium. That's why I'm asking you to listen to our arguments. If you have any other arguments, please say them. But let's make the right decision. And the only right solution at the moment is to remove this moratorium, because if this year there are 17, 18 or 20 drugs waiting to enter the Positive Drug List, next year there will be more patients, and then the overcost will be even greater. That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u364	Thank you, Professor Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u365	That may not be true, but I liked it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u366	Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a speech, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u367	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am fully aware of the responsibility that we will support the proposal made by the Supervisory Board of the National Health Insurance Fund in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Budget Bill of the Casa, to impose a temporary ban on the payment of expensive new therapies for the next year a measure which we have edited, because in its original version there really was no possibility to enter generic products that are new to our reimbursement list. I think this will allow for access to medication. At the same time, this measure is temporary. It will enable the legal framework to be refined, the list of diseases that the Casa pays to be refined, the cost of mechanisms that will benefit the Bulgarian citizens. I would like to stress that the new molecules that are due to enter next year are currently not used for therapy of Bulgarian patients. In other words, the fears that were published in the media that some patients would be left without treatment are not justified. I will support my speech with some figures. There are 2679 drugs on the Positive List right now. Of these, 1748 are in the Reimbursing List of the Case, i.e. they are available to the Bulgarian patients. I would like to emphasise that there are significant imbalances in the costs of medicinal products in relation to the various types of diseases. For general diseases, the monthly average cost of drug therapy in 2016 This includes diabetes mellitus, hypertension, the most common diseases, BGN 33.For rare diseases the monthly average cost is BGN 1274.; oncology - BGN 58, for transplanted patients - BGN 361 We have a universal model that provides medical assistance to Bulgarian citizens according to the rules laid down in the package. We must ensure universal access. In this sense, we really need to revise. It was our decision to include rare diseases, but in time the really excessive growth of these costs for a small number of patients rather deprives other patients of access to the possibilities and new therapies. However, all this must happen within time, and therefore we impose the temporary ban with the idea that it can immediately be cancelled when we implement the other legal steps to regulate and ensure uniform and universal access to Bulgarian patients. Otherwise, if we take into account the cost of individual feathers and the growth in time, if we compare the Cassata budget in 2009 and the one we now accept for next year, the growth for medicines for home treatment is 100%, the growth for oncology is also 100%, while the growth in other types of medical care is much more modest. So, indeed, what is also pointed out in the European Commission's reports is the significant costs of medicines, and the smaller costs of medical activities, prevention, prevention, need to be reflected in the next regulatory decisions that we are going to take.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u368	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u369	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I cannot accept the arguments you have put forward regarding what you are defending. We support our proposal to drop this moratorium and, in general, to provide patients with access to innovative medicines. I won't repeat everything in view of the entire list. I would also like to address you to the management of the National Health Insurance Fund! Have the financial framework and the objective that would be achieved if the moratorium did not fall? Is it justified that any financial framework in this case does not protect the interests of patients who can be cured with these innovative medicines? For example, we can point to the extremely successful treatment of Hepatitis C, over 90% of patients who are being treated with modern treatment are successfully treated. I am not only referring to Hepatitis C. I understand your reaction, but I am referring, as Professor Mihailov pointed out here, and my colleagues point out that there are other diseases that they need, and we should not deprive our fellow citizens, not to impose on anyone as a patient who needs such medicines and medicines, but when necessary they must be provided. The right to access is an inalienable right. It is also a constitutional right, now that we do not enter other territories and aspects. In such a way, we should know what the financial framework is about, but it would be good to know what it is about if there are any calculations. The main thing is that here we have to answer another question.. or there is a weakness or there is no will to optimize the consumption of medicines. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] All the data of the World Bank and the European Commission and the data we have show that for medicines we spend the most money and the highest price is with us. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's where they need to be optimized! We must not prescribe expensive medicines, to achieve an effect so that our fellow citizens have access to these medicines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u370	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Mr. Ademov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u371	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Daritkova, there can be no fiscal arguments to be put before the life and health of Bulgarian patients. I strongly disagree with your claim that they were not currently paying the National Health Insurance Fund the innovative medicines they are waiting for. Of course they will not be paid because they are not part of the positive drug list and there is no way for Bulgarian citizens to benefit from this new innovative therapy. Who is able to take away the right of Bulgarian citizens to be treated with modern medicines? Who is it that might impose a moratorium on the basis that there was an overcost in the drug pen and so on? As there is, there are sufficient controls, including for innovative medicines. You know that there are concessions in advance that are signed. You know there's health technology, there's a Committee on Positive Drug List. Make sure that all control mechanisms act effectively so that there is no overcost that you are talking about. We can't have the fiscal argument, I repeat, and with that I am ending, dominating over the argument that a person has a right to life.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u372	Thank you. Dr. Jaffer, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u373	Dear Dr. Daritkova, this conversation we are having right now is counterproductive between doctors. No one chooses in the majority of cases from which he or his child is ill. I rule out cases of addictions, of lifestyles that lead to a certain disease. But to oppose families in which there are children with rare diseases, with pensioners who cannot pay 20 leva. for antihypertensive therapy, it's really counterproductive and you know it. No one chooses whether or not his child suffers from mucopolysaccharidosis because he has four such children. In one form, their treatment costs 70,000 a month, and these parents have their own personal drama and tragedy. The state must say that when there is a possibility, it will do everything possible to provide this treatment, because it is right. However, it is also right for diagnoses that concern much cheaper therapy, institutions to make sure that they cover these costs so that pensioners can treat their hypertension so that they do not die of strokes and heart attacks and that we are in the forefront of this diagnosis. What we can do and offer is, firstly, really introduce the so-called gateways for drug therapies and guides and know that everyone who appoints treatment should go through certain stages. Not to go straight to therapy third grade, but to go through the first stage, the second stage. That's what the state can do. And the other thing he can really do is think about taking out a rare disease treatment fund, what we have discussed with you, and we will support such a step, because yes, the cassata gives 70.80 million only for the treatment of rare diseases. We've had this debate for a long time. It is indeed counterproductive because it is not in the interest of Bulgarian citizens. There are practical steps that need to be taken and we are about this and not about adopting moratorium and administrative bans. That's not gonna get us anywhere.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u374	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. A hole, Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u375	My fellow Members, I strongly agree with most of your arguments. However, in order to find this balance in order to solve problems with administrative measures, we really need a temporary non-payment of the new expensive therapies. This is an innovative and temporary measure. At the same time, I would like to emphasise that really the solutions must be in the direction in which we have commented on them. Every Bulgarian citizen has the right to have access to treatment that is guaranteed to him. In any case, this will also be the main commitment of the National Health Insurance Fund next year. I would like to stress to one of my replicators that this year for chronic viral hepatitis C by October 2017. The casata paid 62 million. lv. That is, access to this therapy Bulgarian patients have this year as well. We really need a review of the mechanisms, we need the use of therapeutic diagnostic guides. All this I believe in the coming months will happen. It's a temporary measure. The most important thing to strive for, however, is to pay not for a molecule, but for a therapeutic result. This will really make sense for the investment in both drug consumption and other medical activities to look for the pay for the result rather than for a diagnosis or for a separate molecule. That would be our ambition.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u376	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u377	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We should be ashamed to have this debate, because this moratorium, which is currently required, will deprive the Bulgarian citizens of quality health. Since 2009, we have been hearing about political will, about reforms, about analysis. Now, Dr. Daritkova, I understand that you need extra time to plug the leaks into the system. Well, do it! Why didn't you do it before?! What kind of experiments? It's just that you bring the main one, I don't speak to you personally, and your political party is responsible for breaking down Bulgarian healthcare. We're also talking about access to health care, lack of personnel. You've done what you could since 2009. And now we tell the Bulgarian patients that they will not be able to use the most modern medicines. Actually, colleagues, they can use them if they're rich! If they're rich, they can buy them, but the poor people the Casa de facto won't reimburs them. That's it! That's what we're looking at right now. This is outrageous! You want results. What about when the man dies? So he has no right, you can't treat him until you see the result, and the result will only be if he is cured. You are really doing experiments with Bulgarian healthcare. We're talking about 25 million. The fact is, there's a lot of money for drugs. But in the end, you're guilty of those private hospitals that you introduced them to for lack of a health card, that the court canceled all your decisions. This is all your fault! You had to do this thing! With a similar budget, there are neighbouring countries, with much lower ones getting better, they have quality health care. We have a huge leak, huge thefts in the system, and that's what the Minister of Finance personally admitted. And whose fault is that? Guilty, honourable ladies and gentlemen of parliament will be the sick people who will not be able to benefit from the most modern medicines used in Western Europe because GERB cannot deal with this problem. That is the truth, and that must be understood! You, apart from denying people access to healthcare because if you continue this policy, you will also close municipal hospitals, except that we no longer have quality specialists, people can no longer have access to quality medicines or medicines of the newest generation. Here's the conclusion of this debate. It's a shameful debate! It's a shame for 30 million. BGN, and we'll sit here and discuss it. That's why I got up. But this talk that we have a vision, we'll see, we hear that, Dr. Daritkova, for years. Make it this vision finally, if you can. If not, say: yes, we failed in healthcare, we cannot handle it, but be honest with the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u378	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Any lines to the statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We're going to vote on § 6. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs for dropping § 6, which the Commission does not support. Vote 204 MPs: 86, against 75, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u379	We must vote § 6 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u380	I shall put to the vote § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 204 MPs: 115, against 82, abstention 7. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u381	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 7, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u382	Paragraphs 7, 8 and 9 on which there is no proposal on the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u383	There are no proposals on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u384	Are there any debates on paragraphs 7, 8 and 9? I don't see anyone willing to speak. I put to the vote paragraphs 7, 8 and 9. Vote 204 MPs: 124 against 76 abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u385	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs: In § 10, after the word "costs', a comma shall be placed and added to it outside those in a row of 1.3.1. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u386	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any statements under § 10? I don't see any requests for speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 197 MPs: 83 against 90 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 10 by importer. They voted 201 MPs: 117, against 71, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u387	Mr. Chairman, I'm asking for a procedure. Please put to the vote an extension of today's plenary day until 11:00 p.m. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u388	We are voting on a procedural proposal to extend the plenary day until 11:00. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 202 MPs: 113, against 68, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u389	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 11: (a) para. Two o'clock is out. (b) para. 1 becomes the text of § 11. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: "Paragraph 11 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for paragraph 11: ..................................................... (1) The medical establishments which, after 31 December 2017, were first authorised to operate under art. 48, para. 1 of the Law on Medical Institutions, cannot conclude contracts with the NHIF for the relevant activities in 2018. (2) In 2018, the NHIF shall not enter into contracts or additional agreements with hospital care institutions for activities under new: clinical pathways; clinical procedures; outpatient procedures and new medical procedures (diagnostic and therapeutic) in the relevant clinical pathways, clinical procedures and outpatient procedures compared to those agreed by the hospital care facility concerned in 2017 under the National Framework Treaty on Medical Activities for 2017, except where those clinical pathways are not carried out on the territory of the relevant RHIF.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u390	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Dr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u391	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I want to declare a conflict of interest, and until recently, the director of a state hospital... Colleagues, have mercy on state and municipal hospitals! Do you know what you're doing with this text? [[Noise and lines.]] You seal private profitable structures in the districts! Vratsa's private invasive cardiology at the entrance of the hospital, while the state advises her to make it profitable. You can't do this anymore! You can't, because the private has already had a performer on this clinical path. What about Ruse? If you hadn't noticed recently, there would have been only private invasive cardiology! What about the other cities where we already have private structures that have occupied the winning paths? We can't let the state and municipal hospitals get involved anymore. We condemn them to decay! And secondly, a modern innovative activity has a small capacity. An invasive cardiology can take a dozen people a day, but there are more needs. Why wouldn't there be any more angiographs? And please, I repeat, this is the sealing of the private interest in health care and the banning of state and municipal hospitals. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u392	Thank you, Dr. Yordanov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Chakarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u393	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like very briefly to present our proposal, and it is dictated precisely for reasons which we, as a liberal party, share the liberal principles and ideas. In such an administrative manner, it cannot be restricted, because where it is necessary to carry out these activities or to open hospitals, they cannot be restricted by an administrative act. As are the arguments, the same is the approach here, as we have just put forward with regard to the moratorium on new innovative medicines. No regulations of activities and of clinical pathways of new medical facilities can be implemented under absolutely command-administrative... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u394	Excuse me, Mr. Chakarov. Quiet, please! Please be quiet in this Chamber, the speaker is not heard. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u395	We don't share that approach. There must be certain open market mechanisms, a competitive environment in which each entity can be demonstrated in respect of the activities it carries out. We fully share the considerations that my colleague Yordanov presented here just now that they should be equal and we really should be very concerned not only about municipal hospitals, but also about regional hospitals now, because they also have their exceptional difficulties with regard to the activities they carry out and their functioning. We maintain our proposal and hope that reason prevails because this does not achieve effects. I can refer to the Minister of Health in the previous term, I will not tell him his name, he tried and introduced a number of limits in terms of activities, in terms of healing procedures and we have seen the result. The result was once again exceeding the financial limit framework and deepening the debt, if not all, of most hospitals. This approach does not lead to results and we do not share such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any requests. Any other speeches? Dr. Daritkova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u397	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What are the paradoxes we see in the hospital medical care system during the years of its operation as an element of compulsory health insurance since 2006 and the introduction of payment of the activity through clinical pathways? On the one hand, the claims that this aid is underfunded; on the other hand, the continued investments in the opening of new structures and we have achieved a real level of hospital institutions, which is far above the average for Europe.. The level of hospitalizations which, as a reference to the population, are again above average in Europe; and at the same time the discontent of patients with the medical care provided. The paradox, which is also reported, is that we have subliminal activity, so it is highly popular, that is, existing structures can take on additional patients and we are looking for options for their payment. That is exactly the point of the provision that we are introducing next year that there is no payment from the Fund to the newly discovered structures, so that within the existing budget resource we can look for a balanced valuation and an increase in the prices of the paths that have been underestimated and from this point of view not preferred so far. To look for the option for hospital care facilities to be able to realise their full capacity and to be able to provide all patients with health-insured persons who have addressed them to receive treatment and then pay for hospital care facilities. At the same time, we are making an adjustment to enable the regions where an activity is not presented to be implemented once the medical institutions make the receipts to meet the medical standards, to meet the equipment and personnel requirements. We believe that in the course of this decision we will find a way to successfully implement the other mechanism that regulates investment in providing and providing medical services. It is really important to regulate and harmonise the access of all Bulgarian citizens in the different regions of the country. This can be done through the National Health Card. Yes, you all know that she was the subject of an attack in court, and right now she needs to go through the entire procedure so she can be reestablished. The subject of an attack was the administrative procedure for issuing and, in no case in substance. We all agree that there should be such a map and this is precisely the mechanism to direct investments in a direction in which Bulgarian citizens will have the same access to medical services of guaranteed quality. That's the whole point of the amendment. I hope you understand that. And in this case we are really looking for a solution to a problem that has been accumulated over the years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u398	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you are, Dr. Chakarov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u399	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dr Daritkova, of all the arguments you have put forward, we have not heard arguments that we can share, and we would like to share them with a view to achieving better regulation. The fact that there are many private hospitals is a fact. However, where are these hospitals concentrated and which citizens have greater, relatively easier access to these healthcare facilities? We also know from the European Commission's latest report that there are non-hospitalizations, and we surpass neighbouring and identical by standard our countries many times in terms of hospitalizations. What we have proposed and must be introduced after the debates that we have had here in the National Assembly is precisely the introduction, and it is accelerated, of e-health, of the information system. To know when each patient is entering, to see what treatment has been given. At all, there must be full information and an informed environment in which we know how all the funds we jointly collect are moving and must be spent most effectively. Unfortunately, this does not happen, and the mechanisms that you are proposing do not in any way share them. In addition, the electronic system would lead to an improvement of the activity, but all parameters must be determined in a competitive environment so that it really has equal access. In this way, especially in remote and smaller towns, this access would definitely be difficult, even if such ideas were to reveal such clinical pathways or activities that could be realized in these settlements. That is why we support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u400	Thank you, Dr. Chakarov. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u401	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, with this paragraph, which is proposed, is destroyed or killed the possibility of municipal hospitals to resume their activities in wards which were closed in 2016 and 2017. I'm giving you an example. The Pirdop hospital in the region of Srednogorje is for 21 thousand. residents. The community of the seven municipalities and the mayors of the seven municipalities made it possible to cover its obligations. This must be the only municipal hospital with zero obligations. With what you are currently doing, you will do so that you do not restore eye, physical therapy and surgery. They're barely working at the hospital right now, children's, internal and neurology. If these texts are adopted, we condemn an undertaking to all mayors of failure because the business has given money over 2 million, as I said, they are invested in equipment and in real staff, and at the same time with this legal act we are shutting down the hospital. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u402	Thank you. Professor Mikhailov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u403	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Daritkova, only half an hour ago, when the discussion of the Law began, we told you that these two paragraphs We have talked many times with the management of the Health Insurance Fund and, quite in good faith, finding its understanding, had our intentions in the subsequent construction of the National Framework Treaty, really well-meaning, conscientiously creating opportunities for the proper use of this resource, which the legislator now foresees, 400 million. BGN, of which the main part is aimed at hospital care. Let me remind you, and this you probably know all those who are interested in health care that only a few days ago the data of Eurostat and Bulgaria is in the sad first place in the number of hospitalizations. If we legitimize this zero year, there is no guarantee that the number of these hospitalizations will not increase, as the schematics of the algorithms of the clinical pathways enable anyone who has skillfully adapted to them to continue to scroll and to the eastern resource of the National Health Insurance Fund. I therefore urge you to carefully consider the proposals made by us and, with the help of all Members of this House, to really try to optimize this increased budget of the NHIF for the next financial year 2018. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u404	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] A hole, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u405	Dear colleagues, we will optimize the activities for health-insured persons when we make it possible for them to receive early diagnosis and treatment in outpatient care. We do not always have to debate precisely hospital aid and investment in new structures, because it is the fact that we have structures that are enough, even too much in certain places, and in other places they are weakly involved. This is our logic with the idea of not allowing contracts with them to be concluded next year. Otherwise, they can be disclosed if they have other sources of funding. Within this framework, with these increased funds we will have the opportunity to increase the prices of the trails, which is in the interests of municipal hospitals, because this way their revenues will grow. Again, it is in their interest to be able to receive payment for each patient who has passed without restrictions. And I would like to stress again that next year we will be looking for another solution to provide medical assistance, but since the content of clinical pathways is an element of the framework contract, and as you yourself admit in previous talks that we have not found a good solution to replace them, I believe that this measure will enable, on the one hand, to balance the clinical pathways and hence the imbalances accumulated in time to be overcome, and they also lead to the relevant personnel deficit and deficit in providing this medical assistance; on the other hand, to look for real solutions on which the medical care provided in hospital care facilities should be only when the effect cannot be achieved in the outpatient one such as medical logic. The access of Bulgarian citizens will be guaranteed because they can choose a hospital freely throughout the country. Indeed, the territorial restriction creates a problem and it is these territorial imbalances that must be the subject of intervention after the adoption of the National Health Card.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u406	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u407	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Personally, I listened carefully to all the speeches and statements made by colleagues on the subject. I think I've even gotten my bearings on this subject and matter that isn't mine. For this reason, I propose an end to the debate. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u408	A counteroffer? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u409	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the fact that Mr. Kirilov has finally become aware of what we are debating does not mean that all the motives are exposed. I really appeal that we continue this debate, because in the way you proceed, you are really exceeding your authority. Just because you're strong doesn't mean you shouldn't hear the voice of the opposition. That you are feeling some dominance and want to crush the debate, perhaps you have not understood what democracy means in a parliamentary republic, Mr. Kirilov. And democracy is to hear the voice of the opposition. So I appeal to really continue this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u410	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. We are voting on the procedural proposal to end the debate under § 11. Please, voting mode. We are voting on Mr. Kirilov's proposal to end the debate. Vote 172 MPs: 100 against 71, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u411	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-voting procedure. That doesn't look like anything, dear Members of the House. You are chasing the opposition leader from the hall, you want to crush the debate, and it is important not to you, but to the Bulgarian citizens. Do not do it and do not turn this Parliament into such a function that it does not have. Parliament is to hear all opinions and, above all, the views of the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u412	I accept the offer. I'm gonna put him through a re-election. Rethinking Mr. Kirilov's proposal to end the debate. Please, voting mode. They voted 173 MPs: for 100, against 73, abstentions are not. The motion is accepted. Procedure? Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u413	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a procedure. I'm sorry to say there's a problem in the voting system. I can demonstrate it to the distinguished technical staff. The card to be placed is transposed as an effect by placing a card elsewhere. I have also paid attention to my fellow Members, and this could create prerequisites for an unrealistic assessment of the vote itself. Very please, I do not know if this is possible now, but we need to check the connection between the panels in the room and the system that reports the vote. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u414	Professor Mihailov, I'm going to ask the Quaestors to help with this problem. I understand. They say they've switched consoles. I ask the Quaestors to help with a proper vote. Check the consoles to see if they're in place or if there's a switch on the consoles. We shall proceed with the vote of § 11. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 184 MPs: 78 against 85 abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u415	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. There's really trouble with the consoles here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u416	I am re-voting the proposal of the MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 186 MPs: 78, against 90, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs § 11 to be dismissed, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 186 MPs: 78, against 92, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u417	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, due to a problem with the vote, please re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u418	Here you go. I asked if everyone was able to vote. Give me a sign, please, so we don't proceed to this procedure. This time we will respect the request. We're moving on to re-voting. Please re-vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs not supported by the Commission. Did everyone get a vote? I don't see a sign. Vote 186 MPs: 78, against 92, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the Commission's proposal to the vote. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer and proposes the version, which also includes Dr Daritkova's proposal for § 11. Please, voting mode. Vote 187 MPs: 111 against 76 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u419	Dear Mr. Chairman, I just want to inform you that I gave a proper signal. I raised my hand, you didn't notice me, I couldn't vote. You can check the system, too, because still... And we asked you to fix these consoles, because if we keep doing this, we have until tomorrow to vote and reschedule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u420	It's a re-voting proposal. Mrs. Stoyanova, please come in the manner of conduct. We'll reschedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u421	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct. I would very much like to ask you, whenever there is a vote before you call off the vote, please ask if there is anyone in this House who has not been able to vote so that the Members who have not been able to vote and not want a re-vote. The last times you really asked, but it seems to me that some colleagues abuse your trust. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u422	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. This will make the procedure difficult, but let us still carry out the procedure proposed by Mr. Ermenkov to re-vote the text of § 11 by importer. Please vote on the text of the Commission. Did everyone get a vote? Vote 185 MPs: 109 against 76 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u423	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In § 12, a new point 7 is created in Section IX, Information provision of the NHIF with the following content: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Article 7 An electronic health card of individuals shall be established. (2) The electronic health care is a carrier of electronic identity and is a key for access to the health file, as well as confirmation in real time of received medical service. (3) The health dossier shall be structured personal information and contain binding sections which shall be determined by a regulation of the Minister of Health. (4) The electronic health card shall be mandatory for all natural persons using medical care as well as for all performers of medical activities within the meaning of Article 58. (5) The order for issuing the health card is in accordance with the Law on Electronic Identification and the Law on Electronic Governance. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) To be created t. 5b: "5b." validates cost values under c. 5a, distributed by month and by hospital care contractors, on a proposal from the directors of the RHIF in accordance with the NHIF's budget for the relevant year; (b) c. 11 in accordance with the requirements of the law. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, p. 5 The 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. 1, t. 1 the word "twenty' is replaced by "three'. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 37, para. 6 A comma shall be placed and added after submission of a reporting document indicating the numbers of the documents issued for the amounts paid under para. Five o'clock. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 para. 2 is amended as follows: The medical assistance referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be carried out in accordance with the following conditions: 1, except for t. 11, 12 and 15 shall be defined as a package guaranteed by the budget of the NHIF by a regulation of the Minister of Health. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 1 after the word "Securities" is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u424	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u425	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As a mantra, we repeat all parliamentary groups and we have recorded in our election programs that the creation of an eHealth system means better control in the health system. The texts proposed by us concern a first step in this direction. Arguments of the kind that there is no single information system are not serious, because it is high time that there is. We can't give money, we can't do analysis when we don't have all the information about what's going on in the system. That is why we propose a first step to create an electronic health card, to.. on the basis of a single information system, because from the time of the "Aremis soft" we repeat that there must be such a system. This system has become almost legendary. Many millions have been separated over the years, which have returned to some funds, and again have been voted on in budgets. However, in this budget, neither in the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund nor in the consolidated nor anywhere else is something written in this direction. There is no way we can get the institutions to work in this direction if the National Assembly does not record first measures for this. Let me also say a few words regarding the proposal for this paragraph to the MP Daniela Daritkova. Dear Dr. Daritkova, we believe this text is unconstitutional. You are proposing something that must be adopted on just one vote. Laws are voted in two readings. The Constitutional Court, if adopted this text, will bring it back and cancel it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u426	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Dr. Daritkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u427	My fellow Members, I believe that it is an extremely inconsistent approach to accusing my proposal unconstitutionally, since you are making a proposal that has nothing to do with the first-reading provisions that have not been dealt with in the committees of creating an electronic health card, on top of all the arguments that this is a step forward in e-health. This is an absolute lobbyist amendment in the interest of you will tell who, because there is no impact assessment. An investment like this will probably cost a lot of money. That is why we have decided on another mechanism to implement the information system and you are informed about it. This mechanism is through operational programmes where there are more than 11 million. lv. We have to use these funds. By creating the map, you do something like the fingerprint, because we really don't have the single national health information system, we don't have the complete patient file yet, we don't have the full exchange of information between the individual medical performers. This has to happen and only then do we have the identifier... health card or identity card with a chip. That will be decided subsequently. There is currently a public contract for review of the legislative framework that regulates the introduction of a single national health information system, so this project is under way and there is no way here in the budget to seek this solution. We have deadlines for the implementation of the project and I am convinced that it will be successfully implemented. I see that very awake tracks and the Ombudsman, who allegedly brought something into the Constitutional Court before it was voted, and so do you, but at the same time, we need to know clearly the rules. The proposal I am making to create a new item. 5 which governs the legal consequences of Decision No 3 of 8 March 2016 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria in the constitutional case concerning the provision of art. 45, para. 2 of the Health Insurance Act, filling in the then legal void. This is not a new provision. There has been a package so far and it is regulated because it is essential in the system of compulsory health insurance because, according to art. 2, para. 1 sentence second of the Health Insurance Act, compulsory health insurance provides a package of health activities guaranteed by the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund. Also by virtue of art. 4, para. 1 of the Health Insurance Act, compulsory health insurance guarantees free access of insured persons to medical care through a defined by type, scope and volume package of health activities. The lack of regulation with regard to the content of the package makes it impossible to provide health activities to the compulsory health insured persons as these activities are not defined by type, scope and volume, which in turn prevents those persons from having access to medical care within the framework of compulsory health insurance. The proposed text of the provision of art. 45, para. 2 will create security in the implementation of negotiations for the adoption of national framework contracts for 2018 by the word organizations and the National Health Insurance Fund, as they will have regulatoryly defined medical activities that are subject to negotiation. Everything else will be a risk for next year that we do not have a package of services, that is, the Cashier cannot buy activities and that we cannot provide health insurance for Bulgarian citizens to receive medical care.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u428	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u429	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Dr. Daritkova, I kept my mouth shut when I expected that you would say to everyone that there is no conflict of interest on the proposals for the new clinical pathways. I am referring to the lately rampant in the towers of parliament, I am not saying whether it is true that new invasive cardiology is being prepared in Smolyan region. What some colleagues have said in advance and said: we have no conflict of interest. Perhaps anyone who has made any proposals should first state that there is no conflict of interest. I kept quiet, but now I have this question: how much money has been spent so far, this is our citizens' money, for e-health? How much? Not to mention fingerprints over 2 million. BGN, not to mention others. If someone goes and does a survey at the Ministry of Health, there's no way they won't come up with how many attempts have been made on eHealth. And everyone keeps quiet. Why? It's hardly the opposition that stops progress, and that's progress. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u430	Thank you. Any other lines? Here you go, Dr. Jaffer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u431	Dear Dr. Daritkova, I do not know who has what interest and what it is lobbying for, but corruption and the promotion of lobbying interests are typical of those in power and not the opposition. On the other hand, to answer the question: who do you think has an interest in the current state of affairs not having a single information system, not having e-health with all attributes of e-card, e-file, e-direction, e-recipe, and controlling the patient's path? Otherwise we will continue to answer whether it is stolen from the system, whether the more expensive paths are chosen to sharpen the cassata. That's why I think the justification that, you see, you're only managing for six months is extremely serious. For the past ten years GERB has managed eight years. It is time to take serious steps towards eHealth. We're actually making a gesture to the government. Come on, have an argument, justify it with us that we lobbyists have put in to make a health card. Let that be the excuse, but do it already. Just two months ago, we all voted here together and assigned Minister Petrov to work on the eHealth problem. It's not our fault you change ministers every 5 months. Get a hold of yourself! Give the system predictability because the situation is getting very serious. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u432	Thank you, Dr. Jaffer. For the third line please, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u433	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dr. Daritkova, just a few minutes ago, even I think that not an hour has passed, you pointed out that e-health and e-health components are still missing with a view to better regulation for achieving a more optimal spending of medicines, for overhospitalizations. I want to ask you: when are you honest when you were defending that there is no e-health and is an argument, and then you turn to us about what we are lobbying for? Dr. Nigiar Jaffer, I will further develop what you said, and I will say: we are lobbying for a transparent spending of the funds that are both NHIF and the Ministry of Health in the healthcare system to achieve maximum efficiency. Since 2001, at least I, together with Dr. Ademov and my colleague Dr. Jaffer, have been constantly commenting: to enter, to introduce, to introduce e-health. Finally, we have all united here and together supported the introduction of e-health within a certain period of time. The aim is to have transparency and awareness. We must be as correct as possible to our fellow citizens about the funds being spent in the healthcare system. It is more than obvious that they are not being spent in the right way and there are no good results, so neither patients are satisfied nor those working in the healthcare system. Ergo, there's something we need to do to outdo this frame. Some time ago, I said that politicians owe us. Tonight, I will say again that all politicians are indebted to the healthcare system and, above all, to the government, who are subjective. So we all have to work and overcome this for granted. You just pointed us at the fingerprint. Sorry, the address is wrong. I don't know what you meant. You know who entered the fingerprint. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We were categorically opposed to a number of considerations that I now have no time to make. There were other things I'd like to say. We do not share those considerations. Thank you. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u434	Thank you, Dr. Chakarov. A hole? Dr. Daritkova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u435	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, there are really no innocents of those present in this Chamber, perhaps other than the new political forces, for not having the single national health information system happened. That's why I keep saying that we've taken it as a key priority. Therefore, I keep saying that the approach must be systematic and complex. What you're doing here really doesn't solve the problems, because we don't have a patient file, we don't have an electronic prescription, we don't have electronic data exchange, we don't have records.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u436	Make them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u437	This is being implemented now through the project and the money of the European Union. Only then, when we get to this system and structure it, will we need an identifier. And in that sense, I mentioned the fingerprint, which was not legally regulated, but was adopted at another level. We also had objections to him because he did not solve problems, he did not identify the patient's presence and showed his way. Similarly, an accepted card now, now that we have no structured system, will lead to nothing positive, because in no case will it give the picture of a single national health information system, will give transparency, predictability and control possibilities. In this sense, your proposal must absolutely not be supported in the way it has been introduced here. We'll probably eventually get to this identifier, but let's take the steps that are already foreseen in the project, which I hope the Ministry of Health will introduce us to, because we have already obliged it to carry out the construction of such a system. From the point of view of lobbying, yes, I say I am a lobbyist for the voters in the region that I represent. Smolyan region is the only or perhaps there is another one or two of these.. Silistra and Targovishte, in which there is no possibility for medical care in emergency cardiovascular accidents. That's why we're building a state hospital with which I don't have a contract and an invasive lab. In addition, the necessary requirement for this to happen, we respect it by 31 December we must have a contract, unlike the hospital in Pirdop, which has not applied for an extension of its activities and has not been approved so far. Therefore, colleagues, I ask you very much not to be petty, to be correct and to really look for solutions that are in the interests of Bulgarian citizens and to avoid small political nagging, because this does not in any way give structure, vision and horizon to Bulgarian healthcare next year. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u438	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Any other speeches? Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u439	I'm taking a personal explanation procedure because it was said by the unspeakable one really... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u440	Sorry, I can't give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u441	Then in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u442	Okay, the way you're leading it. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u443	Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you and I'm telling you to sanction the non-disclosure officer for false data, and this can be proven to be the hospital documents and the request for a new permit are in the parliamentary room. If there's any interest, they'll be brought.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u444	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There's no way I can do that. Are there any speeches? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u445	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Before I go to my speech, I would like to say that it is the easiest way to place lobbying charges without any evidence, without any arguments. So I ask you, who is trying to exercise an insult in lobbying, to be so kind as to say for whom he lobbies, how he lobbies, how he lobbies to drop any type of doubt, because otherwise the accusations you are pouring out of this tribune look like an elementary lie. However, I would like to draw your attention to a text. I'm not saying this text is lobbying, but I want you to tell me what it's about. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, p. 5 of the current Health Insurance Act, which is now proposed to change, there is one text that says what the National Health Insurance Fund is spending on. And in t. 5 there is one text that says the following thing: the costs incurred for the needs of the National Health Insurance Fund can be used without the acquisition of property. So what's the offer now? The union is dropping without the money of the Bulgarian citizens who are insured can be used to purchase real estate. Notice! That's the proposal that's being made. I do not dispute the offer of importers to have the right to purchase real estate, but this should not happen that way. I question the way it's being proposed. For example, the National Insurance Institute has capital expenditures that are scheduled in a separate line of 6 million. lv. Capital expenditure shall be used after the National Insurance Institute Supervisory Board adopts a programme for the use of these capital expenditures during the year. Now what are we talking about here? How much of the National Health Insurance Fund money will be used to buy real estate? Is that clear? It doesn't make sense. One lev, one hundred leva, one thousand, one billion? How much? Once again, I do not question the right of people to be willing to leave these three apartments where they are now, but where is the state, where are the municipalities to help the National Health Insurance Fund find its proper accommodation? Should the money of the Bulgarian health insurance citizens be used to purchase properties or should we look for another order? This is my question to the importers and to the Budget Committee, which supported this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u446	Thank you. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Any other comments on the paragraph under discussion? I won't. We proceed to the vote on § 12. [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] Mr. Ademov, I didn't see anyone wishing to speak. We proceed to the vote, first, to the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 177 MPs: 68 against 94 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 12 on the text of the Commission. Vote 180 MPs: 110 against 70 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u447	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u448	Are there any statements under § 13? I don't see any speeches. We're closing the debate. I shall put to the vote § 13 on the text of the importer. Vote 178 MPs: 108, against 68, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u449	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Ivanov, made in accordance with Article 14. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2018, with the exception of § 12, paragraph 1. 5 concerning Art. 45, para. 2 which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the Law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u450	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. We are going to vote on § 14 by text proposed by the Commission. Vote 184 MPs: 112 against 71, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. This was the last paragraph, and thus the Budget Act of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2018 was adopted at second reading. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u451	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On the basis of art. 64, para. 2 on behalf of a parliamentary group, we would like a half-hour rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u452	I'm calling a half-hour break. We'll continue at 7:05. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u453	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats. Let's start with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2018 I'm asking for the budget report. Who will present the report? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u454	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for admission in the hall: from the Ministry of Finance: Rositsa Zheleva s. Deputy Minister, Dobrin Pinjurov s.o Director of the Directorate of the Department of Foreign Affairs: Georg Georgiev Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Youth and Sports: Vanya Koleva Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Atanas Dobrev; from the Ministry of Health: Women Nacheva; from the Ministry of Tourism: Irena Georgieva; from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Defence: Atanas Zapreyanov Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Education and Science: Petar Nikolov, Minister; from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications: Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Defence: Atanas Zaprayanov
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u455	Please vote on the proposal for admission in the House of the listed persons. Vote 98 MPs: 90, none, abstention 8. Please invite the proposed persons to the Chamber. Please come in for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u456	"The State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018" The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u457	I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. They voted 125 MPs: for 82, against 6, abstention 37. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u458	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MP Vasil Antonov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 5 "Reservation for unforeseen and/or urgent costs' is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Julian Angelov, Boris Yachev, Christian Mitev, Stanislav Stanilov, Boris Borisov, Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Sabanov, Jordan Jordanov, Atanas Stoyanov, Peter Petrov, Rosen Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Kalin Popovski, Slavcho Atanasov, Valentin Kasabov, Jordan Apostolov and Yavor Notev: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1.1. In para.1.1, I. Preparatory action - Supporting the development and implementation of the Union's external action in the field of research and technological development in the field of research, technological development and innovation 1.5 the number ssq.5 150 000,0sq. is replaced by sq.5 150 030,0sq. (+30,0). 1.2. In para. 2 II. The number 2. In Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1 The following amendments shall be made for non-profit corporate entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2018: 2.1. In line I. The number "11 642,0" is replaced by the number "11 672,0" (+ 30,0) and is replaced by the number "11 672,0" by other current transfers for non-profit corporate entities. 2.2. In row 27, Macedonian Institute of Scientific Studies, the number "seven0,0" is replaced by the number "sixteenth" is replaced by the number "sixteenth" is replaced by the number "sixteenth" is replaced by the number "sixteenth" is replaced by the The Commission does not support the proposed source for increasing subsidies and other current transfers to the Macedonian Scientific Institute. Offers a discount of 30,0 thousand. lv. the costs of art. 1, para. 2, item II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 75000. 2 "Capital "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs." Proposal from the MPs Julian Angelov, Christian Mitev, Stanislav Stanilov, Boris Borisov, Iskren Veselinov, Alexander Sabanov, Milen Mihov, Yordan Yordanov, Atanas Stoyanov, Krasimir Bogdanov, Peter Petrov, Rosen Ivanov, Emil Dimitrov, Kalin Popovski, Slavcho Atanasov, Valentin Kasabov, Jordan Apostolov and Yavor Notev: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1.1. In para. 1, I. Preparatory action - Supporting the development and implementation of the Union's external action in the field of research and technological development in the field of research, technological development and innovation 1.5. the number "six hundred and fifty-five thousand and fifty-five hundred thousand and 1.2. In para. 2 II. The number of..11 923 291,5 is replaced by.11 925 291,5 (+2 000 000 000). 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: 2.1. In para. 1, I. Preparatory action - Supporting the development and implementation of the Union's external action in the field of research and technological development in the field of research, technological development and innovation 1.3. the number 2.2. In para. 1, II. The number of the number of sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. 2.3. In para. 2, p. 7.1 Budget Programme The proposed amendment increases the budget of the Council of Ministers in the part including the budget of the State Agency for Bulgarians abroad, with funds of BGN 2 000 000. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are proposed: 1. In para. 1, Section I. - the number..23 515 773.1 thousand. To be replaced by.s23 515 969,34 thousand. lv. - T. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. The amount of the guarantee is to be replaced by the amount of the guarantee, which is to be added to the amount of the guarantee, which is to be added to the amount of the guarantee. lv. - T. 1.3 "Language tax on natural persons' income', the number..3 372 400,0 thousand. To be replaced by 3 372 596,24 thousand. lv. 2. In para. Section II. The number..11 962 093.0 thousand. To be replaced by the number s11 962 289,24 thousand. lv. OJ L 347, In Section II. Pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 1 "Current costs" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" 1.2.3. In Section II. Pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Mustafa Karadaye, Yordan Tsonev, Adelen Shevked, Sergey Kichikov, Halil Letifov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Ahmed Ahmedov, Imren Mehmedova, Burhan Abasa, Hasan Ademov, Tanner Ali and Nigiar Jafer: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the (a) In Section II. The following changes shall be made: - In row 1.1., the number - In row 1.2., the number?924 331,3? is replaced by the number?970 621,3. - In row 1.2.1., the number - In row 2, the number - In row 2.1., the number - In row 2.2., the number (b) In Section III. The number under the heading "BOUJET POSITIONS (Transfers)'is the number under the heading "NOT'. 1,11 082 080,7 1.1. "3 264 075.1" to be replaced by "3 279 319,56." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 3 the number "six3541.8" to be replaced by In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 4 the number..623541.8. to be replaced The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are proposed: 1.1. In para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1.1.1. Section I. The number is 23 515 773,1 thousand. To be replaced by the number s. 23 516 773,1 thousand. lv. 1.1.2. Section I. Preparatory action - Supporting the development and implementation of the Union's external action in the field of research and technological development in the field of research, technological development and innovation The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. To be replaced by 21 041 600,24 thousand. lv. 1.1.3. Section I. Preparatory action - Supporting the development and implementation of the Union's external action in the field of research and technological development in the field of research, technological development and innovation 1.3 "Language tax on personal incomes" "3 372 400,0 thousand." To be replaced by 3 373 400,24 thousand. lv. 1.2. In para. 2 the following amendments shall be made: 1.2.1. In Section II. The number..11 962 093.0 thousand. To be replaced by the number s11 961 093.0 thousand. lv. OJ L 347, In Section II. Pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 1 "Current costs" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" "Current expenses" 1.2.3. In Section II. Pursuant to Article 4 (1) (a) of the basic Regulation, the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, p. 5.1. the amount to be increased by 70 000,0 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Zhelyo Boychev. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row I, contributions, aids and donations, the number (b) in row 1. The tax revenue is the number 21 040 600,0 and is replaced by the number 22 140 675,0. (c) of row 1.1. Corporate tax the number?2 294 100,0? is replaced by? 2 510 000,0? (d) of row 1.3. Income taxes on natural persons the number (e) of row 1.4. The value added tax is replaced by the value added value of 9 780 000,0 and is replaced by the value added tax of 10 890 000,0. (f) of row 1.5. The number (g) of row 2. Non-taxable revenue the number 2. In para. 2: (a) in Section II. COSTS: - in line II. The cost of the number..11 923 291,5...is replaced by.13 707 - on line one. Current expenditures the number sie 9 449 086,2 "is replaced by sie 10 136 566,7 "; - in row 1.1. Staff number s 4 482 331,8 "s' is replaced by s 4 879 197,7 "s'; - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number - in line 10.2. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit corporate entities the number - in row 1.4. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households the number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number ssq.369 384.6sq.m. is replaced by sq.m. 745 705.6sq.m.; - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number - in line 2.2. Capital transfers, the number....237 973.7....is replaced by..37 973.7.. Row 5.4 and 5.5 shall be created: "B" is equal For economic growth and overcoming regional differences 220 000,0. "5." Target program for financial recovery of state and municipal hospital care institutions 500 000,0 (b) in Section III, BUDGETARY PROMOTIONS (Transfers) - NOT TO BE USED: - in Row III. BUDGETARY IMPROVATIONS (Transfers) - NOT THE NET number - on line one. Transfers provided the number - in row 1.1. The municipality number "s3 264 075.1' is replaced by "s3 380 375,1'; - in row 1.2. State social security the number s. 495090,4s. is replaced by s.4 752 1 73,3s. - in row 1.3. The national health insurance fund is replaced by the national health insurance fund. H. In para.Z of row V BUDGETALDO, the number 4. They're creating an al. 5, 6, 7 and 8: The resources of the reserve under para. 2, Section II, row 5.4. shall be spent on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers as follows: 1. for the fund "Regional development" - up to 120 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for the fund "Industry" - up to 100 thousand. lv. The Council of Ministers shall determine the terms, procedures and criteria for the selection of projects and programmes and the transparent spending of the funds under para. 5, to achieve economic growth, sustainable development of regions, to create an opportunity to generate employment and income and increase the competitiveness of the economy. supposes a targeted programme for the financial recovery of state and municipal hospital care facilities with a budget of 500 thousand. BGN, read in para. 2, Section II, row 5.5. The funds referred to in paragraph 1 (a) and (b) of this Article shall not be used for the purposes of this paragraph. 7 to the size of 250 thousand. lv. are at the expense of the fiscal reserve, subject to the requirement of art. 67. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The change is in line with a proposal under art. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The proposal shall be in accordance with an Annex 4 proposal to art. 51. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 of row II "Costs' the following amendments shall be made: 1. In row 2 "Capital costs', in column 2, the amount lv. 2. In row 2.1, "Accession of fixed assets and major repairs', in column 2, the amount lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes an increase in staff funds by 8100 thousand. lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Health at the expense of internally compensated changes in its budget, and the proposed change is reflected in art. 1. Proposal of the National Representative Vesela Lecheva: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, the following amendments and additions shall be made in Section III: 1. in line 1. Transfers provided the number 2. create row 1.6: ..1.6. additional funds for the implementation of PMS 129 of 2000 to determine minimum differentiated amounts of cash for physical education and sports 3 200.0) The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. (1) Accepts the state budget for 2018 on revenue, aid and donations as follows: in the attached table. It shall adopt the State budget for 2018 on expenditure, budgetary relations and contribution to the general budget of the European Union as follows: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u459	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I shall open the deliberations under art. 1 of the Republican Budget Act. Do you have a procedure or a statement? I'm giving you the floor of speech. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u460	Mr. Chairman, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like, on behalf of the European Union patriots, as importers of two proposals, to withdraw the first in its unsupported part, and the second entirely, which is not supported by the Commission, and our motives are to withdraw our second proposal, which concerns the financing of Bulgarian organizations abroad, is with the following reasons: Mr. Minister Goranov is here. He can also confirm the conversation we have had. This is what we're talking about. The proposal that we had made with our colleagues concerned 2 million. BGN to be granted to Bulgarian organizations abroad in order to apply for various projects. However, purely legislative, unfortunately in the Law on Bulgarians living outside the Republic of Bulgaria, there is no such procedure in this way, but there are quite other procedures. A commitment was made by us, by our group, to prepare amendments to this Law as soon as possible, to submit them and accordingly the Minister of Finance to propose by an act of the Council of Ministers that these funds be allocated to the Agency for Bulgarians abroad so that more than 1000 Bulgarian organizations abroad can be supported by the Bulgarian State. Mr. Goranov, I hope that this commitment you have made will also be confirmed by the National Assembly's stand so that there will be no speculation about these issues in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u461	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I take it you're withdrawing the second offer? The first one stays. [[Reply.]] Excuse me? [[Reply.]] We need to clarify to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u462	The first withdraws the source, which is not supported and we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u463	Okay, thank you. We have specified which of the proposals of the Patriotic Front is dismissed, which remains, the United Patriots, excuse me. Here you go. We are continuing the debate. Any other speeches? Mr. Zhelyo Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u464	Dear Mr. President, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! With art. 1 of today's discussions state budget preserves the current unfair tax structure. This tax policy continues to increase inequalities in our country. With this state budget, we continue to be the only European country to tax the minimum income of its citizens. For us, social justice is an important topic, not just an abstract category. That's why we're offering a progressive tax system. A progressive taxation that will leave more than one billion leva available in Bulgarian citizens. Income that will stimulate consumption, consumption, which will lead to higher economic growth. We have proposed a progressive tax system for taxation because it will leave more income in the low income categories of Bulgarian citizens. This is fairer because the marginal utility of money for these Bulgarian citizens is higher. I want with one thought to characterize what we should be led by when we are pursuing politics, and it is: The assessment of our progress comes from not whether we have succeeded in adding more wealth to those who have, but whether we have managed to provide enough to those who have less. That thought, by the way, belongs to Roosevelt. With this tax policy you condemn Bulgarian citizens. With this tax policy you draw an increasing gap and inequalities between Bulgarian citizens. But what else do you offer us with this budget? You deliberately underestimate the gross domestic product, hence the projected revenues in order to show again over-collection and to report continuously every month results. Let's take a look at the data, because your big hits in collection and in the fight for smuggling, what do they show? Ladies and gentlemen, tax and insurance revenues 2008 were 32% of gross domestic product. Currently and with the forecast for 2018. You are below this level. I would like to tell you that since then, since 2008, gross domestic product has increased by 34%, average wage has increased by 84%, minimum wage has increased by 90%, excise rates on certain fuels and tobacco have increased between 12 and 30%, tax revenues have increased by only 29%. The revenue from VAT 2008 was 10.8%. At the moment, it's about 9%. The revenue from excise 2008 was 6,2% of the gross product. You are currently betting them for next year below 5% of gross product. Explain to me how this is done with economic growth, which is largely due to consumption and growth, your indirect taxes to reduce? The only conclusion is that you can't collect the country's revenues. The bottom line is you can't plan them. And if you want to get the most information, I can show you. To show you 2008 how the wrapped cigarettes, notice, are 21.7 billion. The revenue is 1.7 billion. lv. At the average excise rate of 1000 shorts of BGN 78, now notice the champions in the fight against smuggling, the best At an average excise rate already 163. Deficit revenue and excise duties. For the fuels I will ask the Chairman of the Committee on Smuggling in Parliament Emil Dimitrov to come out and say what is the damage not so much with excise duty. There you know that the schemes are mostly VAT.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u465	Your time is up, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u466	I'm done, Mr. Chairman. This is a budget of a missed year for the Republic of Bulgaria. You are not able to use our potential for economic growth, for refusal of reforms. You continue to spend money without a clear purpose and without a clear result for them. A budget that serves the big corporate interests, a budget that will make the rich more and more rich, a budget that will make the Bulgarian citizens poorer and poorer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u467	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. [[Applause.]] A line? Of course. Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u468	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! One must have dignity, and one must have historical memory. I am a Member of the National Assembly since 2005. A full mandate passed the triple coalition when the flat tax system was introduced, when the "Attack" from this tribune, and I personally, have protested explicitly against the introduction of such a tax system. Now the BSP, who introduced her, suggest we replace her?! You have to have some memory, some dignity, and you have to have a consistent policy if you want to be a politician! This one first. Secondly, honourable Members, you are trying to deceive politics in Bulgaria by offering a progressive income tax system affecting only individuals. They, the big money of oligarchy is in the companies, coworkers, why don't you suggest that? Why do you offer only to individuals who can always keep their money in companies and there you can't touch them? And one time, you're just individuals! This whole story of yours is fake, and it has no value, and it's seen from a very far away. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GG to United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u469	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Are there any other lines to Mr. Boychev's statement? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u470	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Professor Stanilov, I didn't expect such lines from you! I have not been a Member of the National Assembly when this flat taxation decision has been adopted, but decisions must be taken at the specified time when they have been taken. Then the government with a mandate of BSP has proposed, by the way, the BSP governments usually offer radical reforms in the tax system, and very rarely other governments do, has proposed such a type of tax reform with several clear objectives: lightening the economy, a wider tax base of taxation, stimulating investment in the country. It is quite normal in historical times, in another already economic cycle, to review and rethink this policy. She gave what she could, but right now the analysis shows something else. Minister Goranov was here somewhere, he started a check on the cash stocks in the companies in Bulgaria turned out to be 13 or 16 billion. What does that mean? This money is neither invested nor paid tax, although it is 10%, nor hence distributed and dividend. No one can take away BSP's right at the moment, in view of the circumstances and the increasing inequalities in the country, to propose a new more fair and more solid tax system as we do. Professor Stanilov, I will provide you with our documents from Congress, where we very clearly pay attention to both taxation and capital, and we have proposed [[noise and lines from PG to United Patriarchs]] and including an increase in dividend tax, and we have proposed including tax financial transactions. So we have also considered this issue and you will see it in our proposals. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u471	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] A hole? The hole's gone. I thought that was the douche bag. If you'd like, Mr. Boychev, would you like to take another coat? I'm kidding. Please come in for a statement. A statement? Here you go, Professor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u472	What increases collection and lightens, according to us, from the "Attack" and from the "United Patriarchs" is one fake and there are some articles came out at the time and statistics came out, saying that the collection of taxes in the flat system only increases next year and the other of this collection is falling. The fact that they are hiding in the grey economy when they are progressing, no one can hide from the state at all if there is a country?! I can't accept those claims! I have read the documents of BSP carefully, I am following and recommend to my colleague Zhelyo Boychev, with whom I have always been in a normal dialogue, to read today's article by Iskra Baeva in the newspaper "Trud" and there will understand what it is about. Read it and you will see there how she described it picturesquely and nicely, and you will understand that the issue with you is not about the tax system, but it is just about power.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u473	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Are there any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u474	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Stanilov, since you are against flat taxation, will you support our proposal or is this the issue, as you said, of power: when you are in opposition, you support progressive, when you are not, you support flat tax? Answer this question, as you are one as you said, a radiant against flat tax. Answer that question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u475	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here's your next line, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u476	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Professor Stanilov! As a result of my colleague's reply, I would just like to ask, you, as a person with your understandings, have already passed into the tax policy that is characterized by neoliberal approaches, or do you still believe that progressive income taxation is what is fair social taxation? That is my question, and I want you to tell me what your opinion is, not what our opinion is. Tell me your opinion! Are you for or against this taxation? So we know that... [[Noise and lines.]] Everyone has the right to evolution, we do not argue, we do not believe that the MPs, once defended a thesis, should constantly adhere to it. People develop in politics, including in power. We have no claim to this, but we want you to honestly answer this single question: do you support progressive income tax or are you in favour of flat tax? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u477	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go, Professor. Specific, clear questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u478	No comments. Something looks like a police interrogation: is that what you're about, aren't you about that and so on. I have said many times that the policy of............................. is related to its place in the big coalition. It relates to the fact that we are 27 MPs and cannot impose our fundamental views. However, I want to tell you this: we are about this tax system when society matures for it and public attitudes come to it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You are now imposing a false tax system. You drag oligarchy out and introduce a progressive income tax system to individuals. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I told you, you didn't answer that question. I will no longer answer you because we speak different languages with you. You don't understand what I think you're doing! You are trying to make a prime opposition policy that has nothing to do with reality. This is your mistake, which will lead you to a dead end. Remember that! Remember that and come to class!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u479	Thanks for the tunic, Professor. You have the floor for new speeches. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u480	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yes, the proportional tax of ten percent was introduced at the beginning of 2008. This has already been mentioned and what was sought at the time as an effect is precisely stimulating economic growth, employment, improving collection rate, income taxes of individuals, increasing budget revenues, reducing tax burden, improving the effectiveness of the tax system. You know that this was a period in which there was a financial crisis, and not only in Bulgaria, this type of taxation was introduced in many other countries. The revenue collected from this tax really shows that it increases the collection rate, i.e. the revenue collected in the budget, income and proof of this are the data for a period of 10 years back, and if we take for a base 2006 - 2007 when the revenue collected from this type of tax of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. For 2007, in subsequent years, these revenues increased significantly, with a value of 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. For 2008, the increase is almost double in 2016 and is almost 3 billion. lv. Therefore, the objective that has been set with the change in taxation has been achieved. It was said that this system increases inequality between people. Allow me to disagree with this for several reasons. On the one hand, regardless of the amount of the tax rate, which is the same 10% on income, the more you get, the more you pay. The other thing I want to say is that inequality is generally measured by a coefficient or a Ginny Index from the National Statistical Institute. This is a characteristic of the monetary difference between poor and rich. This coefficient in recent years in Bulgaria is uneven, i.e. it is changing regardless of the amount of the tax rate, which is the same and is ten percent in all these years. This proves that the amount of tax does not directly affect this inequality coefficient. Each country shall assess the model of its tax system. Progressive taxes generally have an undesirable, negative effect on individual solutions to offer labour and investment in human capital. Because when people are educated, qualified, they get more income and should not be punished for it. The proposal made by BSP colleagues for a change in taxation is controversial and these amendments will result in losses for the budget, losses that are significant and of a larger amount of 1 billion. 711 million. BGN, with this being only about 58% of the reported income from the income tax of natural persons from employment relations for 2016. It's not clear how this difference is going to go down. We should also bear in mind not only the non-taxable minimum for the minimum wage and the fact that it will change in the coming years, i.e. the amount of this loss or this uncovered part of the revenue will grow, but we should also consider the amount of the average wage that is also growing and which will also contribute to increasing this loss from this revenue. The effects of applying the applied annual progressive income tax scale other than those of employment have not been assessed. It is necessary to make such an assessment and it requires much more at the level of a separate taxpayer. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The proposal made we accept as unfounded and it will lead to a loss in the revenue side of the budget, which should be compensated from somewhere. We are here to preserve the proportional income tax that is necessary for the economic growth of the country and to motivate educated and qualified people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u481	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. You have the floor for lines of speech, honourable MPs. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u482	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House! Dear Mrs. Ilieva, I agree with your detailed analysis, which you did on both types of taxation, but I did not understand clearly in 2008 did you say that the flat tax was applied? I didn't understand the data that you gave in comparison with the year 2006 - 2007 compared to 2008? Thank you. [[Noise, lines, cheering.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u483	Next line please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u484	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Ilieva, for your detailed analysis and for the types of taxation... [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Mrs. Ilieva, you have the line. Could you tell me one G-7 country, if you do not know, are the most developed countries where there is flat tax? [[Noise and lines.]] No, no! Tell me a country where there is a flat tax from these most developed countries or they are stupid enough to introduce it, because, you see, we have thought of it?! On the contrary, after ten years we see that there is a problem because there is a huge inequality in the population. That's what this tax is, yeah! And then we want to change it. What's the problem? But you, because you're so protective of him, a G7 state, quote to me with such taxation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u485	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Here's another line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u486	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, fellow Members! Dear colleague, I cannot agree with you that the debate should only be held on the tax system and I will tell you why. Since BSP colleagues are quite truthful and quite often say that no substantial changes can be made to laws by means of Transitional and Final Provisions, I believe that they are consistent enough in their actions and when making such changes it is nice to say that they support making such principle changes to other laws. It is not normal in one case that such a change cannot be made, and in the other case you are proposing one yourself, and that is why, from this point of view, I do not agree to make such an analysis, a debriefing on the tax system, provided that the conditions under which we are currently operating are flat tax. This is normal because we are still looking at next year's budget. There is no way we can have amended the tax system in this or make this amendment within the calendar December month and make it significant to change the mechanisms on which we will collect the funds next year. Please, colleague, when there is really a debate, let him be serious, meet the principles, as the opposition has called on Mrs. Ninova including, and Mr. Stoinev, and Mr. Boychev, and they are really truthful, not to make substantial changes with transitional and final provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u487	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. You have the floor for the back. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u488	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the order of my lines. First of all, to tell Mr. Kirilov that yes, the data I delivered started in 2006, in 2007 and in 2008 there was already an increase to a billion 950 million, which increased significantly in subsequent years in progression and reached about three billion in 2016. As far as Mr. Stoynev is concerned, what you put as a question: in the United States, although at the federal level tax is progressive, there are five states of Illinois, Indiana, Massachusetts, Michigan and Pennsylvania, which apply flat tax rates of between 3 and 5%! [[Radio.]] These are countries with developed economies. And there the high incomes of people are due to their developed economies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u489	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. You have the floor for further speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u490	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers! Article 1 actually prejudges the entire budget, as everyone knows well, and on it the speeches are both in terms of the article itself and in terms of policies and a common political one adopted in the whole practice of the National Assembly, but I will try to limit its statement precisely on revenue and expenditure. With regard to revenue, let's start with the good. Unlike last year's budget, here we see a fairly well-planned gross domestic product, on the basis of which the corresponding percentage also receives decent revenue, I would say, as planned. Because last year, at this time, from this platform, we warned that the budget is forming a trendy sloth in terms of revenue and we pointed out that precisely gross domestic product is the instrument during which this is happening, after which we were flooded with some two billion surpluses all year, and after adjusting the gross domestic product data, it turned out that there is actually no overexecution. In normal planning of gross domestic product, in the same percentage of tax revenue and in general revenue from gross domestic product, things come into place. We hope this year they don't flood too much of this fake news about over-execution of revenue, because there wasn't any. And the detailed look of individual types of revenue clearly proved it. This is about planning. We believe that, nevertheless, revenues are planned conservatively because of the fact that economic growth and the structure of gross domestic product, hence the structure of growth, enables revenue to be planned a little bolder. But that's not the biggest trouble. The biggest trouble comes at al. 2, in expenditure, because GERB's economic team shows absolutely no desire to use the economic cycle to implement reforms in the country. If there are any, they are extremely timid and are in the wrong direction, some of them. In this economic cycle, at least two things had to happen - first, a detailed analysis of the growth of gross domestic product. To see how this growth corresponds to the country's economic potential if growth is through consumption as it is, there is a danger of overheating at these costs, colleagues. However, if growth is directed through investment, then we are looking at the reverse picture, then there is an opportunity for growth to be accelerated to 6.7%, only that we do not see this in the cost section. There are no serious steps there, as well as in the legislation before that, to direct the economy towards more powerful investments, whether domestic or external. For this reason, this part of the cost is not in line with the cycle. Secondly, the additional funds that are obtained in such a growth phase as we are are are not used to increase growth, nor to shift growth in the right direction, nor to reform, which is even worse. What's it used for? To pour money into unreformed sectors. And that is the worst news of this budget. And the weirdest thing is that this is exactly the news of pride and pride in people who claim to understand economics. This is not a cause for pride, colleagues. I speak it not as an opposition party politician, I speak it as an economist. It would be a reason for pride if the costs were aimed at reforming reforms in the sectors that need to be reformed and not at pouring into unreformed sectors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u491	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u492	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! We are discussing the budget proposed by the government, but it is good that there are also proposals made by the other parliamentary groups, that is, we have alternatives today and we are discussing them with arguments. Of course, the majority will decide. Allow me to assess what the government is proposing and what we are proposing. GERB we believe that it offers nothing new and different than so far, and it is more money, really in, as Mr. Tsonev said, proven inoperable systems. Why have you been proven? Let's see what's happening to education. More and more children drop out of school, more and more those who are illiterate. The number of closed hospitals and the number of people who do not have access to healthcare increases. Poverty is growing people, already nearly three million, who are on the verge of this poverty. Demographic catastrophes are really continuing to melt. Of course, these are processes that have been going on for years, but I remind you that GERB has managed in the last eight. Our budget, which we offer, or the proposals between first and second readings are: more money, but for reformed models and systems, for education, health and tax systems for health purposes, in which hospitals are not commercial companies, this is a serious change; education in which money does not follow the student, and the quality of education is at the centre of reform, and higher incomes even through a fairer tax system. That's two alternatives. What do we think we should pay attention to in the budget? Firstly, there must be a state policy for economics and production. Economics and production is all there is to it anyway! Secondly, there must be a state policy to combat poverty. In the budget of GERB there are no prerequisites for serious growth in the economy. It is approximately the average for the world economy. Since we have a lot of catching up to do, obviously, there is no way this approach to developed countries can happen quickly. Consumption and investment: there is no way in this price increase to expect that consumption will increase and this will stimulate the economy - 80% of some foods, says the State Commission for Stock Exchanges and Trades, Currents 1.5% up, Water. 19%, Cigarette excises up, 62 cases of municipalities in the country that have increased local taxes and fees and only eight that have reduced them. I mean, life is getting expensive, it can't help but affect purchasing power and consumption. Investments for 2017, in the first half, these investments have melted in half, foreign ones. You predict 2.1 of gross domestic product for next year instead of 5.6, as was, say, in 2008, i.e. there is no source of growth. That is why we are proposing our entire alternative, which is in the direction of compensation for the lack of foreign investment with state investments, by offering two special funds for both projects and for Northwestern Bulgaria, the new tax system, which will lead to fairer taxation and income, and the reforms that I mentioned in education and health care. This is essentially the budget changes. I would like to say a few words about the other significant difference between us about the way we budget. For years GERB has deliberately underestimated the revenues allocated in this Chamber by the National Assembly, as is right, and there are surpluses that are distributed outside this House, in the Council of Ministers. This is also in the 2018 budget. And this is how this distribution is done, colleagues: from 28 November 2017 GERB 30 million in 35 municipalities, outside the budget; DPS 22 million in 35 municipalities, outside the budget. All other municipalities in the state.. 3 million. Mr. Simeonov, while you were opening toilets at the checkpoint. [[Laughter]] DPS got half an hour of $22 million out of the budget. What's going on in the country? [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]] Who runs the country? Is this the way to budget? Are these the principles of government and opposition? That's why I say that this is the second distinction between us "GERB" makes a budget not for the Bulgarians, but makes a budget for buying influence [[the President signals that time has run out]] , for obedience to naughty, for behind-the-scenes arrangements and for winning elections.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u493	Time's up, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u494	GERB has turned the highest form of policy into the ugliest form of buying political influence and political calm. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u495	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Any lines to the statement? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u496	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Ninova, not the DPS, but the people in the municipalities received this money first clarification. A second clarification to get certain money on investment programs, you must have done your job as mayor and done what you needed to do with the preparation of investment projects. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] It's well known... I think the DPS group was listening carefully and quietly to your leader. That's what I thought. It is widely known that the mayors of the DPS are working extremely successfully with regard to investment projects, because this has been our strategy for a long time. Third, to which I would like to draw your attention, the mayors are not from the DPS in very large part of the mixed areas. And since I only have two minutes, I will tell you: for example Targovishte.. The mayor is from GERB, but is elected with the votes of DPS. I can tell you more of these areas, including your mayors. The fact that these municipalities are receiving funding is a result of the job well done. After all, if you really care about people, you have to take into account the fact that this money goes to people, not to parties and to mayors. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u497	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here's your next line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u498	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Nino, you mentioned that GERB has managed the last eight years. If we had ruled the last eight years, the state would have been in much greater economic growth [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria"]] and we would have had a much smaller deficit. Let me just remind you that in the two years of your reign, in those eight years, you have actually put us back eight years. [[(Applause from GERB and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] because you left the state in 2014 with a 5.5 deficit, and now we have no deficit. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What you have said about the mayors is that all mayors, after being elected, are mayors of all municipalities and work for all residents in these settlements. If you have a formula for dividing ours and yours, we don't have one. [[Voices: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria". Applause by GERB.]] I can assure you that this is how we will continue to do our policy, because this is how we win elections when we work in the interests of people and when we make policies for the development of the regions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u499	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. The word for a line is Mrs. Menda Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u500	I, as an ordinary accountant, will tell you a few figures. You're looking at a billion and eight hundred million more expenses for everything. You'll tell us in the budget later. At the expense of what are these expenses? We'll have to ask an accountant.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u501	The BASIS system. The Minister of Finance will tell you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u502	Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u503	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u504	You foresee a reduction in the revenue from the tax on individuals - BGN billion and eight hundred million. You are predicting an increase in corporate tax revenue by 216 million. BGN, but in order to achieve it, we must have growth of gross domestic product 10.6%. You expect VAT revenue to increase by 1 billion. 100 million. BGN, but in order to achieve this increase, we need to have a change up. Growth in final consumption at current prices 14% to reach what you are predicting. And what is foreseen in the budget is only 6.5%. That is to say, this whole scheme, which you are building most of the costs on, basically means a billion and seven hundred million more deficits, honourable Members, and if the gentlemen on the left are in power and implement this budget, we will see the sun. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u505	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. No more lines. Mrs. Ninova, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u506	Mrs. Stoyanova, do you remember our 2017 budget dispute again, and our forecasts when we told you again that you were budgeting with reduced revenue? We gave our numbers. What happened in the middle of the year, even just before the middle? That the real numbers became what we said.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u507	But there was revenue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u508	How much is your surplus in 2017, I don't know exactly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u509	Can you, Mr. Lazarov, not call?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u510	Mr. Borisov is talking about two, three billion surpluses, and you say that in our proposals the difference is within a billion and seven hundred million. That's why we're telling you that you're budgeting low incomes to have a surplus of two billion. And we have put this surplus of two billion into the budget framework, and that is why we are spending a billion and seven hundred more than what you are giving. DPS colleagues. Mr. Tsonev, you say this is not money for the DPS, but for the people in the municipalities. Excuse me, but in municipalities where there are mayors of BSP, reformers, patriots and everything else outside GERB and DPS, don't people live, don't they deserve this? They deserve it! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're saying the mayors have to do their job. Tell me, who are you from the DPS or the government, to give me the list that belongs to the bank with over 60 projects submitted by the mayors of BSP approved and not funded?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u511	You don't have that many mayors. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u512	And do you think a municipality of Samokov, for example, has no projects? So don't say... Mr. Tsvetanov, a mayor doesn't have to give a project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u513	Mr. Tsvetanov, the mayors will count it another time, now we're talking about the budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u514	They gave her a few. We have 60 projects from our municipalities. So your argument: your mayors didn't do projects, it doesn't work either. What you're saying is that a mayor, when elected, is one of all residents in the municipality, I agree. Apply it not only in words, because the mayors, outside GERB and DPS, are mayors of all residents of their municipalities, and there live Bulgarian citizens. The way in which you finance the Council of Ministers, not in the budget, let us put it in the budget now. Why don't you want to? Because through these decrees you will buy and influence, you will pay the dissatisfied to stop protesting, you will make your behind-the-scenes arrangements with whom you must through such funding from the Council of Ministers, without this money, the money of the people, pass through parliament and be distributed fairly. This model of budgeting is wrong. He's distorting the political process. It is not objective and is used by the parties in the government to decide their party, electoral, backstage and any other interests. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u515	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. We are continuing the debate. Other statements under art. 1? Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u516	Mr. Chairman, Vice-Presidents of the Council of Ministers, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! As we are talking about municipalities, I would like to make a few points about our proposal for more funds that we have proposed from the proposal just made in the report of the Budget Committee. Dear colleagues, municipalities also have an obligation to carry out delegated state activities. If we look at the sector "Social services" that are being provided, this year the people who provided social services were the poorest. And you know, you work in a mentally handicapped home, you offer 24-hour care, these people, and this year, they're gonna stay the most cost-effective from 5 to 8%. They even fall behind in relations with the people who are offered the social service, they are cleared. Our proposal is to increase these funds, and that is what the Bulgarian municipalities want. You must know that in this area is also the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, I asked him before the budget more than 15 500 people work. Yes, there is a small step, but more is needed here. You realize what it means to work in such homes, especially those for the 24-hour service. Secondly, dear friends, we are talking about changes in education. Ladies and gentlemen, medical professionals in schools and kindergartens are once again receiving the lowest amount. We also suggest that there should be an increase there, because the sudden upliftment and participation in education, yes, there is a change in salaries in education, how will we send a doctor, nurse or dentist there? Next, here are the Deputy Prime Minister of European Funds and the Minister of Regional Development, 39 municipalities are under Operational Programme In these 39 municipalities we have already ten years of white fields. In these 39 municipalities there is no money for municipal roads. Even this money that you are now giving 30 million, 20 million, you do not observe it, at least there to level the differences, because only eight mayors have allowed up to 20% of that money to go to the periphery of cities. But in the end, you are ruling there and will leave some huge contrasts and differences in the development of municipalities. This deepens the problems in the country, you and you know it. That's why we're offering targeted impact. I don't know why you gave up the Targeted Regional Development Program of the Northwest, Rhodopes, Strandzha-Sakar, mountain and semi-mountain districts?! There were such ideas, we warm the mantle and nothing happens. Next thing you know, I'd like to focus on city roads. They're as big as the state. Seven times more money went to the public roads. 65% of municipal roads need reconstruction and rehabilitation. 164 million of the budget goes and a little bit of own revenue, because we know that the population in the municipalities is poor, less and less and less own income is small. That is why we are proposing an increase in the fund, which is related to the costs of municipalities. And one of my proposals, which I propose for a third budget now: 70 million funds for disasters and accidents. In each Bulgarian municipality the river is a building factor so far. In every European city there is money to clean the rivers and arrange the main building factor. My proposal is: let's do this: let's give 70 million to municipalities as a first step so that they can be of the type of capital, like road infrastructure, so that they can clean up and tidy up their rivers. I believe that this will also be prevention of disasters, floods and accidents that are taking place. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u517	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Replies to Mrs. Yankova's statement? I can't see. Come in for a statement, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u518	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! I start with a question: where is the Minister of Economy? The Minister of Economy is not present in any of the discussions on the proposed draft budget for 2018. And this is no coincidence. The budget has nothing to do with the economy. What is the budget policy in the economy to optimize and stimulate individual sectors - for example, new technologies, high technologies, preferences for stimulating individual economic sectors? This budget has been copied from the previous one with changed numbers without any policies. In neighbouring Romania, which we are comparing with, notice, have anticipated from revenues nearly 5% to be invested in the economy, in a public-private partnership, precisely because revenue is increasing. Once there are incentives for economic operators, there is also State money invested in a real sector, then profits and taxes are generated as revenue in the budget. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, I have explained for you. Speaking of revenue in the budget, there is no way we can pass up the way in which we tax both individuals and legal entities. And if we propose a change in this tax system, it is because of the principle of the European Union, and it is solidarity. You have forgotten, although you show that you are a pro-European oriented party, a ladder in the government of the cabinet Borisov 3, citizens for European development, you have forgotten this principle of solidarity. No reforms in this budget. It's a budget that mimics social commitment, but there isn't one. It is because of your fear that the fear of 2013 is increasing, and this fear is still haunting both the executive and the majority in this House. It's the cabinet's survival budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u519	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any lines to Mr. Iankov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u520	Honourable President, Ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Indeed, the negotiators made good conclusions and concrete conclusions regarding the state budget. Yes, the truth is, in art. 1 of the state budget is the salt of the budget. This is the essence from which we need to extract the policies, we need to extract the messages to the Bulgarian citizens. Unfortunately, in art. 1 "What the Budget Committee has approved, we find nothing. Unfortunately, in this article. 1 we find no policies. We find a desire to preserve the status quo and to strengthen this cabinet, as the negotiators have said, on the basis of compromises, severe compromises. There is no coincidence in the proposals that we have made as a parliamentary group and as MPs, there are specific, precise and clear messages to the Bulgarian citizens, to the Bulgarian voters who have sent us here for one single purpose to improve their quality of life. Unfortunately, such a thing in what we are about to accept is not visible. It is not for a reason that we have proposed in this budget the funds for municipalities and for health and municipal institutions to be increased with one single aim to avoid the severe imbalances and disproportions that have been wagered over the years. Dear colleagues, there are gaps between certain regions at the moment, not differences, but gaps, because the mechanism by which funds are allocated to local authorities is more than unclear. We have been searching for years for the answer since this practice was introduced. This is Mr. Goranov. I hope that he will give us some concrete explanation of what is the exact mechanism by which beneficiaries are defined, i.e. the end users of these decisions of the Council of Ministers, with which municipalities consume allocated funds. Because I personally didn't understand how, for example, the area in which I was elected, from ten municipalities were allocated to six. And, for example, the district city is allocated half a million dollars to Mr. Minister, half a million dollars to Shadravan! You should have given them for toilets along the borders so they could all get better, not Mr. Simeonov just one toilet to open. But half a million leva, it amazes me. What are we talking about municipal hospitals? This is an ulcer in our health care, which literally condemns the inhabitants of the municipalities to lack of health care. Only in the area where I live, a hospital is now closed. On top of that, the management of this hospital is also strengthened to manage the district hospital, which is sinking at a unique pace at the moment. And at the same time, the state is not paying any attention to this thing. I can't understand the insolence you treat with this problem. Our proposal is to increase funds, create a fund for municipal hospitals. It's a way to solve this problem. Because the accumulated debts are not only from bad management, but also from negligence from the state on this subject. Less than an hour ago we adopted the draft budget for the National Health Insurance Fund, which literally did not have any messages, but zero to the Bulgarian citizens. No politics. And now with what's at stake in the state budget, we are deepening this gap. Not to mention citizens' income, going back to another place. With policies that you bet inside, that is, the lack of policies, we open gaps, gentlemen, in public relations that will lead to qualitative changes, literally to the disappearance of certain values. Because the Bulgarian people cannot be satisfied with these 500 or 600 BGN, which you give them as a minimum wage. The fact is that discussions between social partners have gone to nothingness. Not with the employers, not with the unions. The government's disappeared from this conversation, it's gone. And it's doing everything to satisfy someone's interests, unclear which ones. For this reason, I call on fellow Members to think very carefully and to vote on the proposals that we have made. Because the chasms that open in our society are doomed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u521	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u522	Dear colleague Ivanov, you are right about what you said, but you missed something in terms of policies. I'll give you another example of the Northwest. What you said is similar to the Northwestern.. Vidin, Vratsa and Montana. Over the years, the government has made a number of round tables, a number of strategies for the development of this region in the Northwest. However, none of this is available in this budget, in the basic document, in the basic Law, which should determine the policy of a government for the region concerned. In Vidin region of all 11 municipalities were allocated half a million, an honourable colleague, only not for Shadravan, but for the square of the smallest municipality in the north-west and in Bulgaria the municipality of Boynitsa. It's a wonderful thing. Not that other municipalities don't need squares. The problem is that there are no more people who walk in these squares because the Northwest with this policy becomes a reservation. There will be no more humans, there will be only animals and plants. Apparently, the attitude of the government towards the people of the Northwest is like that of the people of the reservation. That is why my line to you is: it is not only Shumen that falls into this severe degradative policy of the government. This policy also includes the Northwest, including, unfortunately for me, the Vidin region from which I am a Member of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u523	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u524	Thank you, Madam President. I think you're interested in that, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Mr. Ivanov, six municipalities have received money. Can you tell me which political forces the mayors of the respective municipalities are from and if any mayor of BSP has received funding? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u525	Third line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u526	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member Ivanov! I didn't want to give you a line at all, although I was very patiently listening to your hyperbolistic fatalism in the interpretation of the budget. [[Laughter]] I was listening, but I didn't understand. Before that, you convinced us that we were killing the pensioners. Then we destroyed the sick. And you have locked up the sectors you have killed with this budget. Give more specific information about these sectors? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u527	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u528	Honourable President, Ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! Mr. Kirilov, over 2 million Bulgarians are below the threshold or on the threshold of poverty. This is not a sector, this is the Bulgarian people! This is genocide, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Popov, to your end for my greatest regret, it can't even be reached. You have no road, no railway, no road. This is the Minister of Regional Development. I'm sorry the Minister of Transport is gone, but they know. Believe me, I personally cannot reach your end. Not to mention that they're precipices there. These are not disproportions, these are chasms in which we have fallen. Mr. Stoinev, I was provoked by you and I quote it from the media. Out of 10 municipalities in Shumen district were allocated funds to five to the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and to two of GERB. I will quote the Deputy Mayor of Shumen Municipality: I know what we want to do with this place, but we still do not have a prepared architectural project, so we will let it be done from now on. Half a million, colleagues, half a million for a nonexistent and undesigned tent! Do you understand what we spend the money on Bulgarian taxpayers! This is insane! Do you understand? This is insane. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u529	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Statements? Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u530	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! Now to talk and raise another important topic, and the topic is sport. It is my personal belief that there is no stronger, no more effective and no more effective social policy than sport. Because sports concern the health of our children. Because sports can form and realize the future of Bulgaria. And this is the growing generation. Because sports can put millions of Bulgarian citizens on television, millions of Bulgarian citizens can be proud of the Bulgarian successes. Therefore, I dare say that from this decree, which we propose to increase the funds for its implementation, concerns every Bulgarian child. Order 129 concerns minimum differentiated means for every Bulgarian child in kindergartens, for all students, students and students in the higher military schools. The funds we provide are within 3 million. 200,000. lv. Currently, for every child in the kindergarten is allocated 1 BGN. Every year for sport, for each student are separated 3 leva. per year, for each student BGN 3 Annually. Our modest suggestion is that these funds should be increased by one hundred percent. for a student, BGN 6 for a student, 3 leva. for a child in kindergartens. If you believe that this is the most important thing for the health of our children, for the prospects of the growing generation, let us vote green for this proposal. Ladies and gentlemen, it takes us the effort to press the right button, the green button, for this proposal. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u531	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u532	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, honourable Members! According to the state budget importer, this budget provides financial stability and guarantees compliance with European requirements and rules for deficit and government debt. For another year, perhaps fourth or fifth, we have a budget in which revenues are underestimated and costs are overvalued. Compared to 2017, we have an increase in revenue by a billion and 800 million levs, of which, notice, 1 billion. is for VAT and only 90 million. for excise duties, provided that very soon we changed the Law on excises and tax warehouses, where the tax rate for a thousand short cigarettes changed from BGN 168. BGN 177. In the case of consumption of 13,5 billion Short for 2016 hardly makes only 90 million. lv. Thus, the proposed revenues are very convenient to implement and will allow again to talk about how well the government, the revenue administrations are doing, how well revenue is collected, but the reserves in terms of revenue are very much mentioned by the colleagues who spoke before me and I will not repeat them. This is also evident from the accounts of the budgets of the previous years, in which I told you that revenues have always been undervalued. Perhaps again, as I have said many times, to say that the debate we are having today would make sense if we were, first, debate on the reports and then on the proposals for a budget. It's very important how long we'll be here today to debate art. 1 and the proposals of the various committees, when, in the course of the implementation of this state budget, which we will adopt today and tomorrow, it will be repeatedly changed as it is convenient for the government, by a decree of the Council of Ministers, which the Members have quoted many times in this House today. When we talk about revenue and expenditure under art. 1 is also important to point out another important budget parameter that the revenues provided for in the State Budget Project, which we are going to vote, are 36.2% of the gross domestic product; the costs are 37.2% of the gross domestic product. This ratio in normal European countries is usually 40 to 46% and most often 42%. European experts, financiers and people dealing with a budget accept that with a ratio below 40% it is difficult to maintain a good level of public services, which we in the Constitution should provide to Bulgarian citizens and which we need to provide with the budget that we are debating today and which will be adopted today or tomorrow. The other thing with which the budget we are debating today differs from the budgets in other European countries is the relative share of indirect tax revenue in the total budget revenue. That indirect taxes are prevailing, deepens inequalities and has a negative impact on people with the lowest incomes in particular. With such a structure of tax revenues, the risk of increasing poverty is much greater. The solution to these problems we have placed every year and usually to them the attitude of the budget importers and the government is that it is populism. The truth can be seen in the attitude, honourable Members, and the care of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, because they explore these problems as they are important. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Regarding costs, no one mentioned the capital expenditure which, once again, we have to state is a new blank check for the government, which is not implemented every year and serves only to present a better budget implementation and surpluses, which there is no real one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u533	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u534	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! We made several proposals in Budget 2018 from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, and these proposals are entirely related to the budgetary relations between municipal budgets with the state budget, given that according to art. 141, para. 5 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the state by means of budget funds and otherwise supports the normal activity of the municipalities. The proposals aim, of course, to improve the conditions for financing of public services provided to municipalities such as administrative services, coordination and implementation of local government policies, providing conditions for raising and raising children in kindergartens, providing access to all Bulgarian citizens, including transport and others, financial provision of state protection for old people, without relatives and in poverty, as well as persons with physical and mental disabilities through the provision of quality social services, colleagues. The proposed changes will achieve the following positive effects for society and municipalities. Firstly, 103 poor municipalities will receive an additional increase in the total matching subsidy, which will create conditions for maintaining the same quality of local services. Secondly, our proposal is to provide state support for the gradual improvement of the quality of the municipal road network and its approach to that of the Republican road network; to provide legally defined additions to the remuneration of elected persons; to suspend the delays in the remuneration of employees employed in the municipal administration compared to those in the public, in the private sector and to provide conditions for differentiation according to the level of qualification of individual employees. Here we can also give specific examples. Dear colleagues, many of the specialists as engineers, architects went to work in the private sector and this is a problem for all municipalities. You know that without an architect a municipality simply cannot continue its activities and the entire activity of the municipality in infrastructure projects stops. Currently, two, three or four municipalities are required to hire or appoint a civil contract architect for their services and construction projects. This is a problem, and we really need to provide income for employees who have qualifications. Provision of resources to maintain the built capacity for the presentation of social services and the provision of normal living conditions for users of these services. The last "description of reserves in the central budget, ensuring adequate implementation of state policy at local level such as income policy, reforming the system, as my colleagues before me said, of education and providing access to services for all Bulgarian citizens, including children. Honourable Members, we hope Budget 2018 will be a budget that will ensure the future of the country and our children. For years we have been talking, once again I will repeat the word "decentralisation" we have to go down to the level of municipalities because we know that the mayors of municipalities are closest to the settlements and are closest to our fellow citizens. There must be the key to this budget. If we don't, we still won't be able to achieve the results we all want as a nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u535	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I will first put to the vote the unsupported proposals. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 206 MPs: for 71, against 86, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. The proposal of Julian Angelov and a group of MPs has been withdrawn. The next proposal is again by Julian Angelov and a group of MPs. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Valentina Naydenova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 208 MPs: for 71, against 85, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 210 MPs: 22, Against 99, abstention 89. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 206 MPs: for 71, against 84, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova, which the Commission does not support. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: for 70, against 76, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 204 MPs: 72 against 99, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 203 MPs: for 6, against 78, abstention 119. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva, which the Commission does not support. Please, voting mode. Vote 208 MPs: 77 against 79, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 1 on the Commission report. Vote 207 MPs: 120 against 86, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u536	Under art. 2 has a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) In para. 1: - I. The amount of assigned revenue in - the number - T. 1. "Current expenditures', the number "575 300,0' is replaced by "575 650,0'; - T. 2. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - T. 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs', the number
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u537	Mrs. Stoyanova, Mr. Kirilov, Mr. Dimitrov and Mr. Christian Mitev withdraw both proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u538	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal from the MPs Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov and Yavor Bojankov, which the Commission does not support. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2 (1) Adopts the budget of the judiciary for 2018 as follows: (according to table). (2) Determine the budgetary costs of the judicial authorities for 2018 as follows: (according to table). (3) Confirms maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2018 and maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2018 by the judicial authorities as follows: (according to table). (4) The confirmed by para. 3 maximum cost commitments and new cost obligations can be increased by up to 20 per cent by decision of the Supreme Judicial Council. (5) The Supreme Judicial Council may spend money on previous years' accounts to cover the urgent costs of the judicial authorities in the event that the budgetary balance of the state budget is not violated. (6) In the income under para. 1 shall also include revenue from notary fees collected in accordance with Art. 1. 86, p. 3 of the Law on notaries and notary activities, the claims on the executive sheets issued for the benefit of the judicial authorities and collected by the National Revenue Agency under the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, as well as the amounts of the sale of confiscated or forfeited in favour of the state property by an act of the judicial authority after deduction of the costs under art. 3, para. 12 of the National Revenue Agency Act. (7) Within one month of the promulgation of the decree on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, the Supreme Judicial Council shall present to the Council of Ministers, the Court of Auditors and the Ministry of Finance the established budgets of the judiciary bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u539	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u540	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Ministers! In the expenditure section, the Budget Commission proposes that we accept 591 million. 420 thousand. lv. expenditure, which is a little more than the proposal of the Ministry of Finance. The initial proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC) was for 629 million, according to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 201,000. lv. In itself, that there is a gap between the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Finance is not news, there are always such. However, the point here is that for about 10 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the 900,000. lv. is our concrete proposal, it is difficult to explain why it is not accepted by the Ministry of Finance, respectively by the Financial Commission. The explanation comes from the fact that most of the costs that the judicial system will have are listed as an obligation by law. That is, the legislator obliges a system to do something, after which the same legislator refuses to allocate funds to do so. I'm only going to give two examples for limited time. The National Assembly, through law, decided that the management of the building fund would be an obligation of the judiciary and not of the government, however, the request of the SJC to have money for repairs and maintenance of these buildings is rejected. The result is seen by the people who work in courts and by the citizens who benefit from them. Even when a new building is being built, we have all heard about the new building of the Sofia District Court, the so-called Military National Palace of Culture, but there is no money to pay taxes and fees, according to the opinion of the SJC. What kind of country is one where one of our biggest courts can't pay his taxes? How are we going to judge in this court the wrongful payers when he himself has not paid his dues to the state? The second example I will give is for specialized criminal justice. It has been entrusted in recent months with a law to deal with a new type of lawsuits against senior civil servants. Because of the new load, it was also decided that the magistrates working in it, as well as employees, would be granted six additional monthly salaries per year. We've been arguing about whether it's a good thing or not. Anyway, the majority has decided. However, there is no money in the budget either for the new state figures that will be needed in relation to the new competences or for the additional remuneration that the law has provided. Either the legislator does not assess the possibilities of the state which adopts the law or the Ministry of Finance, respectively, the Budget Commission decides that certain laws will not be implemented because of lack of funds. In this case, however, we are talking about something very important. We are also talking about the fight against corruption and the one on the high levels of power. What signal we give when, first, we announce that a specialized court will sue ministers and MPs, and then, on a proposal from the ministers, MPs refuse this court the means by which it will be effective. The same goes for the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council. Constitutional changes have been adopted, which have made this institution a key body for combating corruption and abuses within the judiciary. The chief inspector is already elected by two thirds majority, but in the end the budget, according to the same chief inspector who told us in the Commission, is quoted as saying: This budget, according to him, will hinder his activity. Well, well, when the people we've put in charge of fighting corruption tell us that the budget will prevent their activities, then the sacred question of having or not having politicians will to deal with this problem as if there is no more need for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u541	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? There are no lines. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u542	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I will start chronologically from the debate in the Legal Committee regarding the two proposals for a budget of the judiciary. You know, colleagues from the Legal Commission that we have done a detailed analysis, firstly, of the differences between the proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council and those of the Council of Ministers. Then we listened to the dissatisfied demands of all representatives of the institutions in the judiciary. At the end of the debate, as is often the case for the fourth year, the MPs from all parliamentary groups agreed that we would make a proposal to colleagues from the Budget and Finance Commission to support the most inevitable, most necessary demands of the judiciary bodies. You remember that we consolidated ourselves into three groups of demands. The first was the Ministry of Justice with regard to the basic additional remuneration of prison employees in order to align this rate, at least with the average for this type of employee in other departments. You know that we discussed the issue.. it was not yet published in the Official Gazette, with a change in the Law on the Judiciary regarding the additional remuneration of the magistrates, once, and the magistrates in the Specialized Court and the Special Prosecutor's Office, together with the employees there. The third request concerned urgently the necessary costs of the Inspectorate, which amounted to over a million and 200 thousand. lv. We regretfully withdrew these proposals a moment ago. They were not supported by logical explanations from colleagues from the Budget and Finance Committee. In part, the request of the Inspectorate was supported in part, i.e. by a million and two hundred on a proposal from colleague Menda Stoyanova, her separate proposal, was approved to finance up to 700 thousand. BGN, which concerns the payment, after an attestation of the employees of the Inspectorate and possibly to cover problems related to their arrangement. I will repeat again that for this year, comparing the financing of the judiciary is the slightest difference, the smallest is the margin between the two final proposals..that of the Supreme Judicial Council and that of the Council of Ministers, that is, we are moving towards an increasing overlap and uniformisation of the two proposals. With regard to the amendments entered after this debate and published in the Official Gazette, as regards the additional, I specify, the possible additional remuneration, it is obvious that there is a reserve in the budget of the Supreme Judicial Council, there is a resource to initially assume such a remuneration, at least until the dispute before the Constitutional Court is concluded. And then I think it's okay for this remuneration to be further approved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u543	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. A line, Mr. Popov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u544	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, you have very detailed the practice of what is happening in the Legal Commission and then in the Budget to get here at this hour. However, the question is: what is the result of all these actions or omissions? Because you claim that you want to make some reform of the judiciary system. You changed the laws, changed the Constitution, replaced new functions of the Inspectorate. We were against this reform and we still are, but you have already started taking steps and, according to your understanding, reforming the system. Yes, but this system and this reform has not been completed because you practically did not provide funding. Such is the policy towards the other sectors, dear colleague Kirilov. Because in a rule of law, the authorities that are called to look after the legal order are the courts and prosecutors, and you create the special courts and special prosecutors, but you do not finance them. Same condition in the security system. None of our services in the situation in which Bulgaria is present today are sufficiently financed. This is very well known by the colleagues of the Special Committee on Services Control, and I think you know that too. But this is in the context of Bulgaria's security system, because the judiciary system is also a pillar of this system. And that is the policy of this budget next year.. under-financing of this system and those reforms, which you eventually started them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u545	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line? Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u546	Colleague Kirilov, I allow myself to make a line for you because you just invited us to be specific. And I'll be very specific. In our proposals, which were between first and second readings, in this part of the budget, we and my fellow Members have found that you have made similar proposals, which even exceeded our proposals as an absolute sum, and we were under the impression that the demands of the very newly elected Supreme Judicial Council, which is the so-called Government of the judiciary, will be met. Instead, you withdrew your proposal today. Now something concrete. In the demands of the Supreme Judicial Council and in our proposals we are talking about one of the sums which is about carrying out the activity of carrying out the e-Justice activity, which was replaced by the Law on the Judiciary, as well as all the other things that we have offered you, were according to specific legal rules. This is not about dissatisfied demands from representatives of the judiciary, it is not just about salaries. We are talking about activities which impose regulations on them, and they said clearly, here was the Supreme Judicial Council and he said that without these funds they cannot carry out these legally entrusted functions. I'm telling you quite specifically once again: three million and 900,000 for e-Justice. I urge you to support our proposal, which will enable the newly elected Supreme Judicial Council and the judiciary to work calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u547	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Third line, Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u548	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kirilov, I understand the difficult situation you are in here when you take the floor on a topic on which you have proposed, and I suppose not by your own will and conviction you were forced to withdraw it. Seeing here the face Mrs. Menda Stoyanova made, I even found out who forced you to withdraw this proposal. But this is a topic that I think is just the small side, the tip of the iceberg. In fact, by withdrawing this proposal and remaining on this funding that has been proposed by the government at the moment, you are proving that any efforts you are trying to make in the area of judicial reform, including fighting corruption, are mimicre. Because anything you want to do, but you don't finance, you don't really want to do it. This means in practice that the situation that currently exists is beneficial to you, you have no intention of changing it and therefore you do not change the funding. I think that makes sense. Mr. Kirilov, I ask you very much, since you are the chair of the Legal Commission, to defend what this Commission is working for, to defend reform, to defend what you are convincing us that you intend to fight corruption, that you intend to make the state more legal and not more economically cut. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u549	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Kirilov, come on in for the douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u550	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers, colleagues who have replicated and received an opinion and attitude! I'll try to start backwards. Dear colleague Ermenkov, I believe that not only myself, all the colleagues who are members of the Committee on Legal Affairs, we defend with conviction, I would say with great passion, everything that concerns judicial reform, including prerequisites, including funding. For this reason, I ask that we look and consider the increase in absolute values. I can't tell you the number of last year's budget, but the increase is over 60 million, according to colleague Zarkov, compared to this year. And it's not some growth that's automatic, it's a growth that's due to reporting all approved programs and projects that are related to reform. Here I will jump over and answer to colleague Milkov, who says that 3.5 million are not secured for e-Justice. That's not true. We've already checked that in the debate. These means of e-Justice are secured and secured. 4 million is not secured, which concerns the additional remuneration, but I get a little confused by the extra remuneration. That's the uncoverable difference. When I offer you here an increase in the salaries of the magistrates, an increase in the incentives of the magistrates, in order to ensure their independence, you oppose and say that it is not done so, as long as we have given money to the magistrates, they receive. And they do. Some magistrates receive significantly higher remuneration than the MPs. When we are now struggling to cover this additional remuneration specifically to compensate for the posting, you were also opposed to it, but now you are taking the opposite conclusion that there can be no reform from this. Reforms, major events and projects in the judiciary budget are secured by the government's proposal as has been done. I have more to add, but the back time is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u551	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u552	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! In the Legal Committee, we have paid attention, and such criticism has been made that we are adopting legislation that has not passed an adequate impact assessment...................which has become delicate lately. However, this impact assessment has indeed subsequently come to us in the Commission in the face of the professional community, which said that the measures that we have voted on are not financially secured. The second criticism we made was regarding urgency, the conditions in which we adopt bills, and especially the changes in the PPC, especially the changes that concern additional stimulus. And I note to Mr. Kirilov that the question is not whether there will be additional remuneration, but how much, because the Law clearly says "do" but does not say in any case how much. In this sense, we have criticised that the questions are being accepted under urgent conditions, and this is precisely the urgency that is putting us in this situation right now. So my request, although there is a very timid hope, is in the Legal Committee to address questions that also have their financial dimensions, to really appreciate them and not to rush them, because this haste leads us to these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u553	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We're starting a vote. The proposal of Mr. Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs has been withdrawn. Mr. Kirilov's second proposal has also been withdrawn. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov and Yavor Bojankov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 185 MPs: 60 against 87 abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 2 in the Commission's version, according to the report. Vote 189 MPs: 110, against 78, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u554	The Commission shall support the proposal of the importer to art. Art. 3 and Art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u555	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the Commission's support to the vote. Art. 3 and Art. 4. Vote 186 MPs: 112 against 66 abstentions 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u556	Under art. 5 has a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Zhelyo Boychev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in Section II. Costs: (a) in row II. The cost of the number six sixty-six hundred and sixty-eight thousand is replaced by seven thousand. (b) in row 1. Current expenditures the number six forty-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six hundred-six hundred-six hundred-six hundred-six hundred-six hundred-six-six 2. in Section III. Budget Relations (transfers): (a) in row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number (b) in row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number six sixty-six hundred and sixty-eight thousand is replaced by seven thousand. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the proposal of the importer to art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u557	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 184 MPs: 58, against 88, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 5 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 179 MPs: 109, against 54, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. For a negative vote, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u558	If we had supported you, we would have left the president without a budget...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u559	No, on the contrary, Mrs. Stoyanova. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I expected a reaction. The finance minister was gone, I expected a reaction from Mr. Tsvetanov because he repeatedly called that we should protect the authority of the institutions. The vote on this article gave Mr. Tsvetanov an exceptional opportunity to show his attitude towards the institutions, and we only wanted 330 thousand leva. an increase in the budget of the Presidential institution. I don't even need to make arguments about why we asked for this, but unfortunately, we didn't get the majority's support, which is also an expression of respect for the presidential institution, for the authority of this institution. I would like to remind you that one of the arguments to make this proposal was, you know, your extremely neglectful attitude towards President Plevneliev, which was expressed in a number of cuts in the budget of the Presidential...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u560	Please, Mr. Boychev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u561	This is a fact, Madam President, during President Plevneliev's time his budget was cut several times. It wasn't that he filled this institution with content...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u562	So this isn't a trend.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u563	That is why we wanted to increase the budget of the presidential institution at the moment and this to be a sign from the country... Again, £ 330,000. You didn't give the presidential institution, you didn't reach out...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u564	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u565	Yes, in the manner of keeping Madam President, I would like to make a note to you not to allow any more such speeches, which, firstly, are inherently contradictory, and, secondly, do not correspond to the truth. Mr. Boychev, in support of the fact that the institution of the President is respected and not you who respect it is that the budget of the Presidency is increased by 640 thousand. lv. compared to the previous year. You want 332 thousand more, you may want another million and 332 thousand, but with the way you voted against the Law of the Council of Ministers, you showed your attitude towards this institution better than us. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] And if we had supported you, the president would be out of budget right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u566	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Let's continue with art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u567	Under art. 6 has a proposal from the MP Vasil Antonov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1, Section II, t. 1.2. The number "5000,0" is replaced by "6 130,0" is replaced by "6 130,0" by other current transfers. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from Julian Angelov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line two. The cost of the number - on line one. Operating costs the number s..85 845.0s. is replaced by.86 235.0s. - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit corporate entities the number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III. Budget Relations (transfers): - in line III. Budget Relations (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..83 2. in para. 2: (a) of row 5 Rules in the field of archive case the number b) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u568	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u569	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The specific proposal proposes that two changes be made, and that is to increase funding within that framework of 1 million. 130,000. BGN, as part of them - 500 thousand. BGN, are directed in the direction of the monastery "St. The other is for 630 thousand. lv. for the investigation and design of the church "St. Alexander Nevsky. This is a proposal to the Council of Ministers, which we do a series of times during the discussion of the budget. Our belief is that this is a patriotic national proposal to separate such a sum. The amounts we offer are extremely low, but they are necessary in two directions. First, each of us, of the men who went to the monastery of Svetogora, knows that the south wing is in a very bad condition. This is the minimum amount by which it can be recovered, to begin the renovation of the southern wing, of the Bansko Wing. And the need to do the investigation of Alexander Nevsky, the majority of you know, and those who do not know should know that the crypt is in poor condition. Much of it is soaked with moisture, and the church itself constructively needs to be investigated because irreversible processes are flowing. This is necessary in order for the project to be carried out and then be able to participate in the programs of the Board itself, and therefore be completed in the form in which it should be preserved for generations. My proposal is not party. It is from a group of MPs from the left. It is a nationally responsible, patriotic proposal. I have no doubt that you will objectively support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u570	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov. Vote 179 MPs: 90 against 28, abstention 61. The motion is accepted. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u571	Revoting! [[(Shouts: "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria" and DPS, lines from BSP: "This is for Sveta Gora." It's not for mayors, it's for the church. Georgy, lines: Do not embarrass yourself!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u572	Ms. Stoyanova's re-voting procedure. Please re-vote mode. They voted 201 MPs: 101, against 32, abstention 68. The motion is accepted. [[Bravo, bravo, bravo, and by BSP for Bulgaria and by DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u573	We'll tell them to reflect it, we have to vote art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u574	The proposal of the MP Julian Angelov has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please vote regime. 200 MPs voted: 71, against 77, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 6 on the Commission's report with Mr. Antonov's recent, supported proposal. They voted 199 MPs: 93, against 82, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u575	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u576	Mr. Kirilov asked for the first re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u577	The proposal has not been accepted "The Council of Ministers remains without a budget!? The Council of Ministers is running out of budget!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u578	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u579	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Since the voting thus held will obviously require revision of the texts in art. 6, I offer you a continuance procedure. [[Shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria " and DPS": "Eee!".]] Either way, I'm going to have to re-vote again to tie the numbers. And I ask that this delay be in the final vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u580	Break it up now and we'll pick it up tomorrow.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u581	There's nothing to interrupt!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u582	Let's break it up, let's break it up!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u583	Mr. Tsonev! Mrs. Stoyanova's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u584	Madam President, I see no reason to interrupt the sitting or to postpone the examination of this article. If there are those who want to re-vote, let's re-vote, and let's get this over with. Moreover, we accepted art. 1 and there, if you remember, the source of this particular proposal was not accepted. Mr. Antonov's proposal in art. One, which was the same as here, wasn't accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u585	But now he's accepted, now he's accepted!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u586	I'm proposing a re-voting!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u587	I have a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u588	Mr. Tsonev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u589	Mrs. Chairman! [[The reporter Menda Stoyanova and MPs are talking to the stands.]] Can you hear me, Madam President of the Budget Committee? You are primarily addressed to this procedure! What is the practice so far in such cases. Don't fall into... There have been such cases many times.. we postpone the vote of the entire member to tomorrow, during this time it is processed and the source of art is located. 6. [[Menda Stoyanova's reply.]] That's the practice, that's the practice!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u590	Are we putting it off?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u591	We have procedural proposals to postpone and to the contrary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u592	We have procedural proposals to postpone the vote on the entire member, and what has been adopted, the third time you cannot vote on it. [[Heckling]] No, the third time you can't vote on it! Okay, do it and we'll see if you can do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u593	Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u594	I'm gonna take a break so we can work this out! Come in for the procedure, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u595	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There's nothing to be afraid of! On the contrary, something good has happened. My proposal, Madam President, is the Minister of Finance, who is here. [[The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov and MPs from GERB are talking on the path]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u596	Colleagues! Mr. Goranov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u597	Mr. Goranov! [[Heckling]] Mr. Goranov, my request is for you! It's a million dollars. lv. That's a shame. Well, fellow MPs!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u598	What's the procedure, Mr. Boychev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u599	If we do not make this gesture each of you from the men's part of the hall has gone to our monastery and knows what the other monasteries look like. It's the least we can do. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u600	Colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u601	Mr. Goranov, if it's bullshit for you to give up that money, come out and say it out of this stands and make it clear that that's what you're doing. We are making a proposal to interrupt the debate, a 15-minute break. I hope Mr. Goranov, during this time, will consider this big budget change with one million leva, which destroyed the macro framework of the budget and gave to the Bulgarian Church money. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u602	Colleagues, since there has been a real case, a 15-minute break so that we can clarify exactly what the situation is and how to proceed. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u603	Colleagues, please take your seats. Mr. Kirilov, please repeat your offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u604	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm renewing the proposal I made under procedure. If necessary, I'll explain it in more detail.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u605	Your proposal was to postpone art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u606	Madam President of the Financial Commission, you did not understand me at the first proposal, so I will repeat it more clearly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u607	Repeat it, Mr. Kirilov, to make it clear to everyone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u608	I propose that you postpone the vote on art. 6 and this postponement shall be the final vote on the Draft Law. Under art. 6 we have one vote taken and we have one request for a re-vote, that is, we have the option of another vote per article. 6. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u609	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u610	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a reverse proposal because we are currently in a re-voting situation and you know the Rules very well, and this only happens when a colleague has not voted and there are no hypotheses for a procedure between two votes. And the other procedural proposal I am making, fellow Members: it is currently 10:10 p.m. You see what happens from work more than 12 hours, I suggest that we call off the meeting and work tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. on bright heads so that no other such cases can be obtained. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u611	So, you're making Mr. Kirilov a counterproposal and a motion for termination. Mr. Kirilov, you are welcome to the procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u612	I'm doing the reverse procedure of the proposal. [[Shouts and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u613	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u614	I'm going back to the part where I'm going back to the part where I'm going back to the part where I'm going to cancel the meetings. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u615	He's right, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u616	... I am proposing an extension of the meeting until 24:00. [[Sighs, noise and lines.]] By 12 o'clock in the afternoon, in european terms. And I want to tell you that in the hierarchy of votes under art. 69 the proposal that I have made to postpone the vote is always voted first and foremost. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u617	That's right, a motion to postpone the next sitting art. 69, para. 1, t. 2. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's motion to postpone art. Six to vote. Vote 213 MPs: 140 against 73 abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Svilensky's motion to dismiss the meeting. They voted 213 MPs: 95, against 100, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's second proposal to extend the working hours until 24:00. They voted 209 MPs: 112 against 91, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Continue, Mrs. Stoyanova with art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u618	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u619	Statements? I won't. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let the vote pass and I will give you a statement. Procedure? Mrs. Stoyanova started reading when you said the procedure. [[(Noise and lines:]] You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u620	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I am doing a procedure in the manner of conduct, Madam President. We are in a situation of voting on a text requested by Mrs. Stoyanova for a revoting. You have rudely violated the Rules of Procedure by allowing a procedure to be voted on to postpone the text. You know very well that voting and revoting are carried out immediately one after the other. That's a rude violation of regulations. The rules are a law, both for us and for all Bulgarians in this country, which is subject to constitutional control. I'm telling you again, you've made a big constitutional mistake. I call on you to carry out the re-vote that Mrs. Stoyanova has asked you to continue the meeting from now on as you wish. But this mistake you make will question the entire budget that we will accept in a few hours. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u621	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Lazarov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u622	Dear Madam President, perhaps you should have reminded us that when we were debating art. 1 with the exact same proposal, with the same content, was not supported and it did not pass. Remind the coworkers, which is why we have to... [[(Noise and lines:) What is this procedure? What are these things?]] May I continue?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u623	Proceed, Mr. Lazarov to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u624	It's to you, but I think that this noise obviously doesn't satisfy my colleagues. I am reminding you of art. 1 The exact same proposal, with the same content, did not pass. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the manner of conduct, I ask the President to remind you that you may have missed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u625	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Here you are, Mr. Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u626	Madam President, I'm joining my colleague Svilenski. I'll read you the text in art. 71 of our Rules, which is imperative: Al. 2. When the voting procedure or the outcome of the voting procedure is challenged and which has taken place here in the Chamber, the President shall order that it be repeated. The result of the re-vote is final. We were in a re-voting procedure, and you, in violation of the Rules, have already postponed the second vote, which should have been final. It's the change of art. 6 Because this is the will of the Chamber in respect of art. 6, Commissioner Antonov's proposal should also go through the Budget Committee? When will this proposal pass through the Budget Committee after we meet and look at the texts? That's why we asked for a recess. Let the Budget Committee make appropriate adjustments in art. Six, offer them to the auditorium and let's move on to the budget! It's the correct procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u627	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A procedure in the manner of conduct? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u628	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, procedure in the manner of conduct. Since we are obviously in a dispute and the dispute continues, please tell your colleagues to read the text they referred to correctly. This is the text that colleague Popov tried to present to your attention, but as a violation. Let us read it carefully: "When the voting procedure or the outcome of the vote is challenged here and immediately after its completion, the President shall order it to be heard. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, it doesn't say when to repeat it. [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] It doesn't say when to be repeated. Besides...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u629	Colleagues, please, please! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u630	Besides... Mr. Popov, that's right. There is a practice of this Parliament and this Parliament has voted at least three times and has rescinded the delay. [[(Replications, banging on banks and yelling from BSP for Bulgaria]] Madam President, I ask you to put in order and take measures especially for its breach.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u631	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u632	We all saw who was chanting at the banks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u633	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, it is clear to everyone that we need to refine this text and art. 1. Let us be reasonable and make appropriate changes tomorrow. So we put it to the vote because we need to be precise. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's move on. Ms. Stoyanova reports Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10. I give the floor for speaking on these terms. I won't. I put to the vote Articles 7, 8, 9 and 10, supported by the Commission. Vote 205 MPs: 120 against 85 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u634	Under Rule 11, there is a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II, EXPENDITURE: - in row II, the cost of the number..1 193 319,0.... 1 431 - on line one. Current costs the number - in row 1.1. Staff number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III. BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers): - in Row III. BUDGETARY IMPROVEMENTS (Transfers) the number?1 149 319,0 " is replaced by?1 387 267,0 "; - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. in para. 2: - on line one. The number of defenses policy s 1 116 953.0 is replaced by the number s 1 354 901.0 is replaced by the number of defenses; - in line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u635	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u636	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're looking at your proposed budget in his department of defense. You know that for the last 5 years, this system has been deliberately led to liquidation. Why do I think that? The percentage of defence from the gross domestic product has dropped sharply since 2009 - 2010. You are constantly talking from the beginning of your government eight years ago that the people in the defense are the most valuable resource, that defence and security are your priority. However, the proposals you made with an increase of about 100 million. lv. the defence budget, in fact, shows your disparaging attitude towards this major sector in the country. The policy that you are leading not only does not heal the sector, not only do you not solve the problems, but, on the contrary, you continue to deepen them. It is no secret that this chronic shortage of funding for the Ministry of Defence leads to a lack of incentives, a lack of motivation in the servicemen and everyone working in the defence system. This also leads to a much more important drop in combat training, lack of sufficient training process, and last but not least a lack of funds for maintenance of equipment and equipment. For a reason, in the past few months, we have seen the refusal of servicemen to carry out their tasks. We therefore propose to focus on this sector, to increase defence money, and for the whole sector they become 350 million. BGN and, in particular, for defence, to be increased by 240 million. lv. With this, we want to solve a few important problems that you obviously do not understand, or you have no desire to solve, namely to start dealing with and fight against the non-completion that has already reached monstrous sizes. I therefore urge you to support our proposals and show that this sector is a priority for you, that you have a positive opinion and would like to heal the Bulgarian Army, you would like us not to lose our abilities, but to strengthen our defence capabilities, to continue to develop them and to be a worthy responsible member of the North Atlantic Treaty. It is therefore necessary to raise both the wages of the servicemen and to increase the funds for maintenance of the equipment and the armaments. Do not think that modernization is the most important and that this is the emancipation that will solve your problems. I therefore ask you once again: think about the future of the Bulgarian Army! Decide to finally work towards dealing with the problems and realistically see how we can achieve common success.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u637	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u638	Let me just finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u639	Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u640	Our proposals are consistent, we offer them every year. Show once again, at least now, that you are thinking about the Bulgarian Army and that you are willing to heal the system of the Ministry of Defence. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u641	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u642	How can I not make a line, I am a Bulgarian officer! I'm a Bulgarian officer! Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear colleague, I am speaking to you here as a Bulgarian officer who has graduated from military school and is currently a captain of the reserve. My fellow Member, when you made that statement, I must tell you this: in the past, when they abbreviated and destroyed the Bulgarian army, they did not even send us flowers with a bouquet that is the truth! And you know who did this thing? Two parties have done it. One is SDS and the other is BSP! It's the truth, my friend! These two parties destroyed the Bulgarian Army. It's a fact! It's a fact! And when you first give 100 million. lv. for the Bulgarian army, it is a shame to say that the Bulgarian army did not have enough money! Where were you when you ruled Bulgaria four times in those years?! Where were you for the Bulgarian Army, I ask you? Where have you been? Four times you have ruled Bulgaria in these 27 years. Where were you to heal the Bulgarian army so that it would be a worthy defender of the Bulgarian state? I say that at the moment as a result of your government and as a result of the management of the UDF and the king with whom you were allies, I would like to tell you that the Bulgarian army was turned into civil protection, not into a Bulgarian army. It was turned into civil protection! Don't laugh at me, it's a fact, my friend! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u643	Mr. Atanasov, time is up. Thank you. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u644	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Atanasov, I just want to remind you that when BSP managed the defence system, the Ministry of Defence, there was a real increase in the wages of the servicemen, we returned the incentives socially and motivated the servicemen to remain in the Bulgarian Army. I'll only remind you of one fact. In 2010, about 2,000 officers were released in one year. You decapitated the Bulgarian Army, the leadership of the Bulgarian Army [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And now you're telling me that we destroyed the Bulgarian Army?! You, with the policy you've been leading for eight years, are heading towards the destruction of the Bulgarian army. Let's tell the truth! No more lies! No more lies! And I will tell you one more thing: since 2010, the trend is that the defence budget will be reduced. In 2009 alone, it was reduced by 400 million. lv. [[(Noise and lines from the bottom of the room:]] No, your budget, your budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u645	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Tsonkov. [[Noise and lines.]] Please keep your voice down in the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u646	Dear Mr. Atanasov, the result we are currently seeing of the state of the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is this for one main reason: the policy of genocide, which you have implemented in recent years. So at the very least, you can put ash on your heads! Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u647	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Any other speeches? Mr. Milev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u648	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Let's not lower the army's problems to this level that we just got. [[Noise, excitement.]] I believe that the Bulgarian army is worthy of respect and that indeed the defence problems must finally find solutions in the budget. It is a pity that in recent years the problems of defense have been neglected. This may be caused by statements that are not likeable to decent servicemen who serve in the army. I believe that the biggest problem at the moment in the army is social security and solving the problems of the servicemen. Maintaining the low base for the basic salary and the minimum increase that we are predicting this year by BGN 70. for sergeants and up to 90 leva. For the officers, it's funny. We cannot say that this is how we address security and defence problems. Even the funds allocated to higher education institutions, much of them go to the proportion already paid by educational institutions. It is true that modernization is slowing down and it is high time to adopt the land troops plan so that procedures for simultaneous modernisation can be followed. However, this will happen in the years. It's gonna happen over the years. I believe that it is precisely these proposals that we have made in this regard that it is appropriate to support them and that we should not make so much noise. A lot of us here know what the problems are, and the servicemen know them best. With this gradual wage hike, however, the problem of the army's assembly will not be solved. This year, we spend some money on 1,300 soldiers in 5,500 people, 5600 people, and in some formations it is more than 25%. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I invite you to take our defense problems a little more seriously. Let's vote properly. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u649	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Panchev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u650	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, dear colleagues! We are looking at one of the most important laws of the year, the State Budget Act, and a defence sector, which is very important to us. We seem to have calmed down since 2004 that, as a member of NATO, someone is thinking about us. We are obliged to have a strong, combatable, trained army to ensure, if necessary, the protection of our country. Unfortunately, after 2009, the percentage of the gross domestic product for the support of the Bulgarian Army has been significantly spent. money, insufficient for staff, for combat training, for modernization of the Bulgarian Army, for capital expenditure, money, without which we cannot hope and have what we need... some truly well-prepared soldiers, satisfied with their salary, the social benefits that the state provides for them so that they can, dedicated to the service, work and take care of our protection. Since 2009, the social benefits of the servicemen and the money for them have been significantly reduced, which is why we currently have about 6,000 people who are understaffed and many officers. There are divisions where the number of officers is 20% incomplete, which is unacceptable and is nowhere in Europe as a practice. With the money he has this year, another 100 million allocated for wages will be enough to raise wages, but we cannot in any way solve the problem of non-completion. We can't solve the problem of combat training. You know that a month or two ago we witnessed something unseen: to have dissatisfied servicemen who do not perform the tasks, albeit during a vacation, because we are obliged to provide the necessary resources to the servicemen so that they can be trained so that they can properly carry their military service, be able, wherever they are in the world, fulfilling our obligations to NATO, to perform themselves dignifiedly. We, the Ministry of Defense and the Minister personally, are responsible for this. I also call on the Minister of Defence and our colleagues from GERB to take this sector more seriously, the sector, which needs our support not within these small borders, but to fulfil the commitment that we have taken between 1.5 and 2% of GDP to be the funds to be provided for the Bulgarian army. We've made correct proposals, I wish you'd support them. Unfortunately, from the beginning of the examination of the three budgets, I see that none of what the opposition is proposing is being accepted. I think this is a serious mistake when we want to be successful. You say that in the next year, during the Presidency, the slogan will be: Let us be united in the interests of the Bulgarian Army, the Bulgarian servicemen and give them the opportunities they need in order to be able to perform their duties. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u651	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u652	Dear Mr. Panchev, I make you a line as your thesis repeated several times. I remind everyone that we are adopting a budget for 2018 and not 2009. First thing. Secondly, I remind you: the Minister of Defence is named Krasimir Karakachanov. Thirdly, the main things in the budget have been increased. Defence costs, the percentage against GDP and for the first time, not 1300 soldiers will be appointed, but 1300 out of 5000 incompetence, which you can calculate how much is in percentage. Please from BSP, talk about Budget 2018 and not about your 2009 memories. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u653	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Panchev, come in, for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u654	I don't want to argue with you, Mr. Mihov, I know you're a member of the Defense Committee and you have an idea. I don't want to reproach the Secretary of Defense, but I want to warn him: it's his responsibility! Don't say there's a lot of money now. Money's not enough. In my speech, I said there was more money, but I said that money was insufficient. The Bulgarian army needs a higher percentage, more money, and if you told colleagues in Parliament that 1,300 people would be appointed next year, you could say if this would happen at the beginning of the year or in the last month to fulfill some commitment. It's not 5,000, it's 6000. It's not the compound. I am convinced that 1300 people will not be appointed next year, even because of the fact that there were three candidates for one place when Sergei Stanishev once ruled the government of Sergei Stanishev, there were three candidates for one place, now there is no one candidate for a place, so it will even be difficult to find candidates under these funds available to the Ministry of Defence, with these conditions that we with this budget vote for the future of the Bulgarian Army, and things are by no means colorful. On the contrary, there is a lot of money needed in the Bulgarian Army to fill the holes in order to solve the problems and we should not rely on what has been done in the past. We have to look into the future, so I want to believe that we will have no problems, I want to believe that NATO will be on our side, but we must have our Bulgarian army to rely on and who, in the future, will be proud of being part of Bulgaria and for defending Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u655	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Any other speeches? Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u656	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, first of all, I would like to sadly tell Captain Atanasov that the flowers are over and I will no longer be able to give. Honourable Members, we are discussing extremely important security issues for the country. I am provoked by what I have heard from my colleague associate associate Professor Mihov and the following speeches, including by colleague Panchev. Above all, we must rely on our own opportunities and then wait for them to help us. But, back to Mr. Mihov's words: you say spending has increased compared to GDP. Let's see in art. 11 point 2 "costs of 1 billion" The Commission 319 thousand. BGN, towards GDP for 2018, if achieved, will represent 1.2%. According to those responsibilities that our country has assumed at the NATO summit in Wales, it should be 2% in just one and a half calendar years from now. If, then, GDP, as you predict it to be 110 " 115 " billion. lv. Tell me, what's 2% going to be? The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 200 million. lv. And more. If Mr. Mihov could answer how in a year and a half, calendar, where would we get a billion dollars to fulfill this request? Maybe Mr. Goranov, if he's here, he'll tell us. Let's not lie to ourselves 1.5, I told General Popov today in a frank conversation on the sidelines, of course, if he's here, I asked him, too, he... Mr. Chairman, would you be able to tell colleagues who are not aware of the defence issues to be as good as Mrs. Stoyanova warned me? Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova, you're especially fresh tonight. I'll see you in 24 hours. Let us be clear one more time, because no matter how much we add to the security sector, to put the costs of SANS, to talk about security and defence, to put the costs of DAR, to other services, it cannot reach what we have assumed as a responsibility and which, by my modest predictions, we will not be able to meet. If what you say comes true: 2020 everyone be here, in these places, then you will have to say why we didn't perform it. Mr. Mihov, it is good to say: we will rely on NATO, but from what we have taken, we see that NATO also relies on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u657	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We shall proceed to a vote on art. 11. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. 200 MPs voted: 72 against 94, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 11 on the Commission report. They voted 201 MPs: for 122, against 79, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u658	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers and Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! I voted negatively, not because we have not appreciated that this time in the defence budget there are 100 million leva more, which is really good, especially those 70 million that go to pay the officers, the servicemen and the soldiers in the army. I voted negative because this is not enough. I voted negatively because all of us and the Defence Committee swear that we need to strengthen the state's defence capabilities, that there must be new weapons, that there must be a new mandate, that we must raise the status of the servicemen. We swear to the point where we have to raise our hand or press the button with the corresponding numbers. And when we get to the numbers, we're kind of modestly shrinking our numbers, and we think we're gonna have solved the defense problems with that. Colleagues, to remind you, I suppose you have forgotten that there is a Bulgarian proverb that says: "The one who does not feed his own soldier, feeds foreign soldiers. By the way, we are already doing so with the adoption of various ratifications, which will already have enough foreign troops here in Bulgaria, that we will pay them logistics and so on. But isn't it better to really seriously tackle the problems of national security and, above all, the defence of Bulgaria, raise the status of the officers, raise the status of the servicemen, so that when there are free places to fill, there are ten people on site, not ten seats per person? In order for this status of the officer to be what he has always been over the years, I apologize to the soldiers, they're not military, they're not military, we're not guilty, we're guilty. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I apologize to them. I don't think we're proud. Colleagues, this was the reason I voted against it because the Bulgarian honor and the Bulgarian army deserve more money and more care. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u659	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Please, Mrs. Stoyanova, continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u660	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12, para. 2, the table, t. 1 "Policy in the field of crime countering and public order protection', the number..743 845.5 " is replaced by.753 895.5........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. COSTS: - in line two. The cost of the number s = 1 296 400,0s is replaced by the cost of 1 393 600,0s; - on line one. Current costs the number - in row 1.1. Staff number s1 161 763.0s is replaced by s1 231 763.0s; - in row 2. Capital expenditures, the number s22 747.0, is replaced by s49 947.0, - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number?22 (b) in Section III. BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers): - in line III. BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. In para. 2: - on line one. The policy on the fight against crime and the protection of public order is replaced by the number..743 845.5.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - in row 2. The policy on border protection and control of migratory processes is replaced by the number..180 542,5................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - on line three. Fire safety policy and the protection of the population in emergency situations the number - in row four. Policy on the management and development of the system of the Ministry of Interior the number - on the line All the number..1 296 400,0...... 1 393 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u661	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. For a speech the word asked the people representative Ivan Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u662	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! We're starting to look at art. The 12th budget of the Ministry of Interior. Unfortunately, from this article there is a bitter truth that this is the budget of false expectations, this is the budget of empty promises, this is the budget of fraud. Dear Minister, unfortunately, you welcomed the holiday of the Ministry of Interior with protests, welcomed the Fire Department celebration with protests, and I fear that after tonight you will welcome Christmas and New Year with protests too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u663	And Nikulden? [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u664	Nickulden others will celebrate it. If you don't mind, we don't have to do any lines in the hall. I apologize. [[Radio.]] Because this budget does not cover to the slightest extent the expectations that the employees of the Ministry of Interior have. This budget does not meet the expectations that everyone has for improving the material base and improving the professional training of the employees of the Ministry of Interior. What we will remember from this year are precisely these protests and an action for which I hope you will soon explain, with numerous live power and technique for catching four people who are not yet clear to date where they are. For your joy, dear masters, we are handing you a hand and giving you an opportunity because the BSP has always been consistent in its policy regarding the sector of security and security, namely: raising the funds for the Ministry of Interior and respectively the structures that work in the sector of security and, in particular, the Ministry of Interior, because the need for employees to be motivated to work, to have peace in their environment is precisely in our proposals. You have repeatedly said in this Chamber and in committees that you need these funds and we offer them to you. I don't understand why to date you're rejecting them. I'm sure we'll have a repeat of the uniform case. How many years this money has been piling up, so we had to change the law and give extra money. We're giving this opportunity. One more thing in particular about the offer I made. Just to remind the Members of the National Assembly and the Minister that in the recent amendments to the Act of the Ministry of Interior, a proposal was adopted for the closure of the establishment by Mrs. Bachvarova. I took the trouble of looking into the budget and found that for the budget of this unborn Petko and died, with an apology, 10 million were separated. lv. I have suggested that these 10 million be taken and given to the employees of the Ministry of Interior, but to my greatest surprise, I find that these funds have been rejected by the Budget Committee. Why do you deprive the employees of the Ministry of Home Affairs of those funds that can go to the Work salary fund and cover to a small extent the needs they have? I hope from this tribune we hear a logical explanation from both the Ministry and the Budget Committee why is this happening? Because these disproportions, which are laid down in the Ministry of Past Budgets, we see them again this year as a ticking mechanism bomb on the threshold of the Presidency of the European Union, which we are about to face. The normal reaction and normal behaviour of some responsible statesmen is to accept these proposals that we give because the employees clearly, precisely and categorically told themselves their opinion on the subject. We can no longer make fun of the needs of these employees because you are fleeing from your election promises. Where are the police in every settlement? Where is the attention of every Bulgarian citizen, because in this budget this thing is absent, not here. There's only one good wish left from here on out. We are waiting for these answers and it is normal in the vote for you to support our proposals, because I say again that we are consistent in our policy in this regard. We offer you these things, and they are a lifeline for you, gentlemen in charge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u665	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u666	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We all remember the wave of GERB as early as 2009 with great expectations and especially in the field of the Ministry of Interior. Then we all remember that a large number of policemen voted for GERB with high expectations that security would actually be improved with very rapid steps. Most of the police have been lied to, and for years now, we see it with protests, and we see it with a number of comments that everything that is expected is not happening. With this budget, the major challenge facing the Ministry of Interior for the non-completion of the police officers, not part of the administration, which in some directorates is blowing up with unnecessary jobs, continues. This challenge, with this symbolic increase in budget, which will go to the Fund, will continue to act demotivatingly for the regular police officer who is on the street, the one who is risking his life every day. That is why the proposals that we have made, I hope that there will be intelligence on the part of the government, because a small part of them are related to the security sphere, to be supported. If we do not now actually increase wages at a faster pace, some processes will deepen and there will be no point in solving them in time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u667	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Vladimirov? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u668	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen ministers, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! Thus, the proposed budget for the Ministry of Interior is not adapted to ensure the overall work of the Ministry and the tasks it has in front of the power office. Minister Radev also made a commitment at a meeting with the trade unions that he would perform a functional analysis, focusing on duplicate activities in the Ministry. Is there such a functional analysis, Minister? On the basis of this analysis, did you make the proposal to the Council of Ministers and the proposal submitted by the Council of Ministers for a budget of the Ministry of Interior? We had a discussion in the Internal Commission and it became clear that an increase in remuneration in the sector is envisaged in Security, in the Ministry, the proposed draft budget is set up, but it is not clear how these increases will be formed or rather we have understood that after we vote on the budget, there will be between 1% and 15%. By what criteria? How will the salaries of the employees of the Ministry of Interior be increased? You will decide on your sole, you will not know the National Assembly and at the same time you want to vote this minimum increase for the Fund. You yourself have admitted that the budget is not sufficient funds for training. You're predicting an increase in investigative officers and at the same time you didn't put any funds in place to train them. You have made a commitment, at least you have ensured that the resources to complete the work of the employees are sufficient. We will control these words of yours. What the various departments in the Ministry need is not enough and in the budget of the Ministry of Interior we expect technical provision of all units to be a fact. And finally. What you are not providing, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, the state of the Ministry of Interior is just over 49,800 thousand and you have put money on 46,000 policemen. What does that mean? A lack of nearly 10% additional work that you do not pay, overtime and at the same time must be ensured for the six months safety, calmness, the Ministry of Interior to ensure this calmness, this security, not only to the Bulgarian citizens, but also to those who will be in Sofia in connection with the European Presidency. How will the Ministry of Interior deal with these challenges, all the more so that the commitment of the Ministry of Interior includes this specific activity to ensure security and against possible external threats of terrorism? These funds are not enough, but Minister Radev has agreed. He defends the budget of the Ministry of Interior and is therefore responsible for the funds provided by the Council of Ministers proposed to the National Assembly and for the work of the Ministry for next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u669	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Jankov? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We're closing the debate. We're going to vote on art. 12. We are voting on the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov, not supported by the Commission. Vote 172 MPs: 63 against 85 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 174 MPs: 60 against 89, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 12 on the Commission report. Vote 179 MPs: 106, against 71, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u670	Under art. 13 there is a proposal of the MPs Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Hristian Mitev. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II, Expenditure: - in row II, the cost of the number - on line one. Current expenditures the number..221,804.0..is replaced by..230 279,0. - in row 1.1. Staff number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers); - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..170 2. In para. 2: (a) in row 2. Punishment policy the number b) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Yavor Bojankov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, the table, row II. The cost - the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u671	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Krum Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u672	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! The joke aside, you know, the labor unions in the prisons in Bulgaria are organizing a series of protests in the last days and weeks in defence of the labour rights and interests of the employees of the Directorate-General for Justice and Security Directorate for the Ministry of Justice. These protests remain somewhat out of the public eye and media. This is not because these people cannot be attractive enough, but because at all the problems of our penitentiary system and prison work rarely cause interest. And this, ladies and gentlemen, we think is a big mistake. This mistake is strongly felt by the people who are busy in this system because they experience it every day, but it has to do with the overall "security" not only but also the public mood in Bulgaria. It's like we forgot prisons aren't just about punishment. That's where he's re-educated. And when we don't reassign people who go to prison for one reason or another, they usually relapse. And not accidentally a large part of the crimes, especially the crimes against the person and property in Bulgaria, were committed for the second, third, fourth time, i.e. by relapseists. We talk about prevention a lot. But one of the greatest preludes we can make is to provide working conditions and people who want to work in prisons to ensure security there and to take care of this re-education. For a long time for the employees of the Directorate General "Execution of the Punishments" and the Directorate General "Secretary of Security" the great cause was to compare their working conditions and pay in particular to that of the other employees in the sector "Secretary," mainly in those of the Ministry of Interior. They have received numerous promises about this, even the current Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsacheva had ensured that this would be a fact and they have made progress in this long-standing struggle. Naturally, this does not keep them warm if you allow me the expression, as the conditions to which those in the Ministry of Interior are aligned are not attractive enough to make someone do such a complex, so responsible and not particularly pleasant work. But the Prisoners' Syndicate seems to have decided that the time has come to set a rib. And we have to support him. They want a few things -- they want a 20% increase in basic monthly salaries, not 5%, because the argument that it should be 5% -- because 5% is for everyone in the sector -- security -- it doesn't hold up. For too long the difference between these employees was such that the same increase now does not cover it. On the contrary, they also want it and pose a major problem for them, which was also posed by the Minister of Justice during the reflection and debate of the budget in the Legal Commission. It is about increasing the basis for determining additional remuneration for specific activities. This base, which should once again be the same as other employees, is actually quite distinguished, even with the insufficiently well-founded base in the Ministry of Interior. There, after the order of the Minister of the Ministry of Interior on 1 April this year, I mean, the base was set at 190 BGN. Due to a shortage of funds, the base in the Directorate General "Execution of the Punishments" remains 95 BGN. I stress the lack of funds because this is the argument not to raise, that is, everyone admits that it is normal for this base to be the same. There are no arguments to the contrary, but no funds have been reached. And one explanation was that these funds were not provided for in the budget and there was nowhere to be taken. Now we have a chance to predict them in the budget. The exact amount needed is 5 million. 828 thousand. lv. With that $5 million. 828 thousand. lv. We will achieve two things: firstly, we will contribute to a greater justice in levelling the status. Secondly, we will also give the Minister of Justice, the Government, all of us, as parliamentary groups, an opportunity to start a normal dialogue with the people who serve in these responsible professions to show that we have heard their demands that we appreciate their work and that they deserve more.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u673	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? Here you are, Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u674	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Zarkov, yesterday in Sliven, where I was elected MP, there was a protest of the employees in the only women's prison in Bulgaria. What you said is absolutely true, there is no doubt about it. But I was shocked by what one of the women who works there said. [[GERB lines.]] Asked a question where and it is better to be whether to be the one who serves in prison or to be the one who is in prison, she said: "I better be the one who is lying because I am better socially satisfied. [[Replys from "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u675	Please don't scream. It won't be a better order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u676	Mr. Chairman, this is a matter of upbringing. You won't be able to re-educate people at 2400 hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u677	Don't comment on it anymore, continue with the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u678	So, Mr. Zarkov, really the problem is extremely acute, but I highly doubt that colleagues will understand what this is about. Not about anything else, but because they're convinced that after he's passed art. Art. 1, art. 2, everything else is pointless in this discussion. Yet let the people hear that we are on their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u679	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Under art. 13 two proposals have been made, not supported by the Commission. I put to the vote the first proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 169 MPs: 66, against 82, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the second motion to the vote on the same article. 13, not supported by the Commission. It is one of the MPs Pencho Milkov, Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov and Yavor Bojankov. They voted 183 MPs: 77, against 78, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. We now proceed to the vote on art. 13 according to the text of the importer. The Commission supports the text. Please vote. Vote 191 MPs: 113, against 77, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u680	Under art. 14 has a proposal from Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) Section II. ????????????????????????????????????????????????? - in line two. The number of.1835451,8 is replaced by.298951,8. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.1. the number of the number of the Member States of the European Union is replaced by the number of the Member States of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as (b) in Section III. "BOUJET REPRESENTATIONS" (Transfers) - in line III. The number - on line one. The number of the budget budget is 1 150 301.8 and is replaced by 1 265 801.8 and is replaced by 1 265 801.8. 2. In para. 2: - on line one. The number of the number of the employment policy is.103 764.1 " is replaced by..173 264,1 "; - in row four. The number of the persons with disabilities is?282 703.9 and is replaced by?284 703.9. - in row five. The number of the social inclusion policy is.613,087,7 and is replaced by.643,087,3 and.. - in row six. "Life level policy, income and demographic development' is replaced by "14 870.3'; - in line "Everything's going to be replaced by "1 183 451.8' is replaced by "1 298 951.8'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u681	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u682	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers, honourable Members of the House! I am up to motivate our proposals for art. 14 of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria, which regulates the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2018. In general, we propose an increase in the expenditure of the Ministry's budget by 115.5 million, which goes to finance policies, firstly, in the area of employment, in the area of people with disabilities by 2 million more; in the area of social inclusion by 30 million more; in the area of living level, income and demographic development by 14 million more, and last but not least, in line 1.1., where staff costs are, we increase them by 20 million. In order not to say that I am black-eyed, I would point out that I see a slight increase in wage costs, but I definitely think that the planned increase for those working in the social sphere, of course, except for the political appointments at the peaks, where you have recently increased wages by BGN 1500 000, the rest are still miserable and inadequate, and despite the favourable economic situation, it is estimated to increase on average only about 6%. In the general budget of all ministries and departments, staff costs increased by 12.6% compared to last year's budget and by only 7% compared to its expected implementation. In the total wage cost you announced a growth of about 10%, but this forecast will hardly happen, because even though there was talk of 700.800 million leva about this, the last issue is an additional 493 million, which is insufficient for an increase of even 10%. For workers in the social sphere, even a 10% increase is extremely low because there the salaries of specialists and experts are so backward that they are already getting closer to those of the low-skilled staff whose salaries follow the increase of the minimum wage. We expect staff costs to increase by 20 million. BGN, which will allow the salaries of the expert staff in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the departments to increase slightly more significantly by 20, 25% on average. You need to support this proposal because the wage situation in the social sphere is tragic and soon there will not be a working person who can find another job. I suppose the Minister will confirm that his wish is also the same. The question is for the majority to realise this need to increase wages in the social sphere. Not to mention that there has been serious tensions there for a long time. The rest of the time, I would like to comment on the financing of employment policies. You say that with this budget, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has provided for funding of actions for an adequate policy to increase the supply of a skilled workforce, to activate the unemployed and support for increasing employment. But with the money you've been planning and the money you're spending, it's not gonna happen. Despite a slightly positive trend for three years to improve employment, the pace is hardly satisfactory enough to make a tangible improvement in employment. I'm not talking about unemployment, I'm talking about employment. Therefore, neglecting subsidised employment is not a profitable move. It focuses on the gap between demand and supply of labour force. There is nothing wrong with this, but it forgets structural unemployment and the army low qualified and without qualification, which form the main part of the unemployed. There's not enough money for the battle with structural unemployment. That should be clear to you. There can be no means of active policy from the state budget in national employment action plans not to change for eight years. From 2010 to 2017, they are 73 million and expect positive results and a change in the picture of unemployment - 8 years now, despite the economic revival and growth of gross domestic product, the share of funds for active policy in the budget is constantly decreasing as a share of gross domestic product and is several times below the EU average. Not to mention that the minimum wage for this period is increasing by 240 BGN. in 2010, 460, 510 you predict for 2018. This means that with the same financial resource allocated to the National Employment Action Plan, the number of unemployed persons from vulnerable groups, which can be included in employment and training programmes and measures will be continuously reduced. Limiting employment policies in this budget at such low levels does not allow full implementation of the recommendations of the European Union to Bulgaria, which recommend... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] You started five minutes before I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u683	Here you are, Mr. Gokov. Finish your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u684	Thank you. I'm done. You simply cannot implement the European Union's recommendations to the scope of the unemployed included by vulnerable groups. [[Radio, loud noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] I understand that you're annoyed by what I'm saying to you because you don't have a hibernation of this and your social sensitivity tends to zero. Thank you for your attention. [[Loud noise, banging on the banks from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u685	Please be quiet in the hall! Mr. Gokov has taken into account the time. There is no reason for you to react this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u686	This is exactly how you react when you are talking about unemployment and your social sensitivity. Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB and OP. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u687	Are there any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? Mr. Mirchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u688	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, you haven't been very clear. Would you be a little more specific? Thank you. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u689	Are there any other lines besides Mr. Mirchev's? I won't. Here's your coat, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u690	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers! I'm not gonna tease the majority any more by saying so. I'm just going to tell you who these vulnerable groups are from the people you ignore and ignore. The policy you lead against these groups is not profitable and when it comes to labour, for Bulgarian employers, for Bulgarian companies, this is really not a profitable policy. Vulnerable groups are long-term unemployed youngsters up to 29 years of age, with a subset of 25-year-olds who are neither trained nor employed. Unemployed over the age of 50, unemployed without a profession, without qualification or without professional qualifications on the labour market. Unemployed with permanent disabilities, inactive persons willing to work, including discouraged persons. 73 million isn't enough for this, and that's a resource that works for the business. So you can go on with what you're doing, not socially sensitive to these people, but that won't change... [[Applause for interrupting the speaker, whistles from the OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u691	Can we have quiet in the room, fellow Members?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u692	By the way, I was going to finish, but I have three minutes...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u693	There was no point in increasing the time if we were to applaud an hour later. Let's finish Mr. Gokov. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u694	I thought I'd call it a night. I've got another minute and a half to wait for you to applaud me and move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u695	I stopped him that time, Mr. Gokov. You can proceed now if you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u696	Thank you for your sensitivity. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u697	For a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u698	Dear President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that you do not follow the regulations. Once again, you're admitting abuse of right! First of all, I'm not gonna name him here just now, he comes in, he tells about Sliven, and there's no line. A few minutes ago, I won't mention names again, we go out and we abuse the law. So it's no coincidence that the gym, you see, has a corresponding reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u699	Fair reaction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u700	I ask you to follow the Rules, as you have been abusing this most important document in the country for half an hour here. If you'd like to go into your rights and follow the rules exactly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u701	Thank you very much, Mr. Ivanov. I would like to note that this applies to all MPs, so there is hardly anyone tonight who has not broken the Rules in any way. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] I'm sorry if I broke it. Mr. Svilensky, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u702	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am extremely outraged by your conduct in the last five minutes, as there has been a ruckus in the Chamber.................................. and applauding, and the only thing you had to do is to stop the meeting. [[noise, lines and applause from GG to GG]] , not to give the floor to the manner of conduct, to procedures. Here, they keep calling the coworkers! Please stop the meeting, it's twenty to twelve. [[Noise and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u703	My fellow Members, I call for order in this House! You have the floor to speak. Here you are, Miss Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u704	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! The alphabetic truth is that the budget sets priorities in the policies of the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u705	Dear colleagues! Excuse me, Miss Halacheva. There's no order in this room right now. Please be quiet if you want to hear the speech. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u706	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! The alphabetic truth is that the country budget for 2018 sets our priorities in specific areas. If we refer this claim to the proposals for 2018. It is the Republic of Bulgaria's budget for children's policies that we can draw definite conclusions and they are that children's policies are not and are not the priority of the Republic of Bulgaria in this budget. For example, the draft budget of the State Agency for Child Protection (SDA). It's really increased by 400,000. lv. Compared to 2017, it is much smaller than the budget of the State Agency for Child Protection in 2009. More disturbing is the structure of the planned costs and it does not predispose the development of policies for children in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is one of the main functions of the Agency. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u707	Mr. Atanasov, may I ask you to be quiet after all? [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me. Dear colleagues, until the end of the meeting there are 17 minutes. I suggest we go to bed peacefully tonight. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Miss Halacheva. Please be quiet, really!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u708	Thank you again, Mr. Chairman. The main expenditures I continue, provided for in the budget of the State Agency for Child Protection, are precisely 1 million. 226 thousand. lv. They are also intended for salaries for the Euro-Asian event ASEF, and the level of salaries at the State Agency for Child Protection does not predispose an increase in the expertise of the Agency's staff. It now employs 66 people in mid-2009. Since the beginning of the government of the Political Party GERB, the Agency has been abandoned by 159 highly qualified specialists, and many of them have been sacked politically precisely by your party. Currently, the State Agency has no Directorate for International Cooperation under the conditions of over a million Bulgarian children living temporarily or permanently abroad and the residence of over a million children in other countries annually outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Agency's capacity in the area of collection and analysis of information on children's problems is reduced to the sanitary minimum. Therefore, I propose that the budget of the SACP be increased and I accept this proposal made by the State Agency for Child Protection with the additional 200 thousand requested. lv. to build an automated information system. This need also supported, in my opinion, Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov of Friday's parliamentary control when he admitted that he did not have adequate care of the state for the children of Bulgarian immigrants.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u709	Miss Halacheva, just for a second. Please, colleagues, take your seats! [[Noise and lines.]] To all colleagues I look on one side, look on the other side, calmly. I'm not just making a remark to you. All colleagues, please take your seats and remain silent! [[Noise and lines.]] Sit down, colleagues, please! Go on, Miss Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u710	Thank you, Madam President. I'm going as far as I can go. At Friday's parliamentary control when asked by me a question about the policies of the state related to the children of the Bulgarian emigrants, the deputy prime minister of demographic policy said that our strategy... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u711	Mr. Minister, please take your place in the stands. Please be quiet! There's a statement at the moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u712	Thank you. I focus on the essentials and conclude, namely the status of the State Agency for Child Protection. Until when, honourable Members, will the Agency be a secondary authorising officer? What control functions can we talk about in relation to the departments of the Agency for Child Protection and Social Assistance when the budget of the State Agency is determined and controlled by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy? The independence of the Agency is not only the subject of constant criticism by our international partners, it is a basic guarantee for the quality change of the policies for children in Bulgaria. Consider this!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u713	Thank you, dear Miss Halacheva. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] I've given a little more time because on several occasions, Miss Halacheva is interrupted. Mr. Kirilov, please come in and then procedure. [[Heckling]] Yes, Mr. Vitanov, and you. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u714	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the time of the present sitting until acceptance of art. 20 and, along with that, I am proposing a start time for tomorrow's meeting to be 10.00. [[Noise and lines.]] President KARAYANCHEVA: Mr. Vitanov had a procedure... [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. Mr. Kutev, then Mr. Tsonev. [[Noise and lines.]] I gave Mr. Kutev my word already.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u715	Madam President, honourable Members! This is not the first time the budget of the state is adopted in this way. I really hope it's the last one! I want to give you my sincere belief that if the cameras that are shooting in the back show tomorrow everything that has happened to one person, there is no one of you who is not ashamed. There is no way that at 12 a.m., there are millions here that are announced, but tens and hundreds of millions in this environment. This is the life of Bulgarian citizens! The way all this is happening is, to put it mildly, obnoxious! There is no way that your only hope, because you continue to insist on this, is that what is happening in this House will remain hidden because there are no journalists and there is no one to show you. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Tomorrow some of them are gonna put this directly into the nets and I don't know what we're gonna explain?! There's no way to explain how some millions have gone through your head here, in this setting of jokes and banter, of all the noise that no one hears. I would like to ask which one of you right now can repeat two words from what colleague Halacheva has spoken? [[Loud noise and lines.]] Who can say two words of this? Well, look at you! These aren't MPs! I'm sorry! There is no way to meet the definition of MPs as we are. Stop this comedy! Stop her!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u716	Mr. Kutev, it is practice when the budget is adopted to work later. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to work until the adoption of art. 20 and tomorrow we'll start the session at 10.00. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 202 MPs: 110 against 86, abstention 6. [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u717	There is no negative vote on the procedure, Mr. Ermenkov. Procedure can. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u718	Madam President, I'm doing a re-voting procedure and I'm doing a re-voting procedure to do it tomorrow because it's already ten to twelve. I don't understand why we're going to work tomorrow at 10:00, and today we're going to work until 1:00? I don't know. Can't you work during the day? Is your muse only coming at night? [[Noise, lines and laughter.]] What's the point, Mr. Tsvetanov, tonight we have to work until 1:00 and tomorrow we have to sleep until 10:00? Tell me one logical answer. Tonight we have to work until 1:00 and tomorrow we have to sleep until 10:00! Tell me! If you answer me, I will work with you by 3:00 a.m., if you want, outside the National Assembly, however, not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u719	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Revoting procedure. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 201 MPs: 106, against 89, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u720	Dear Madam President, honourable gentlemen Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I think the budget is something that is being discussed and we need to take it seriously. Including perhaps the most serious of all, the Minister of Finance should refer to him. However, the Minister of Finance behaved like a rude person during the speech of colleague Teodora Halacheva. I've been standing with my back to her the whole time. I don't want to use exactly what part of you I'm financially standing with, and how did you manifest yourself by standing at it? If he thinks he's a flower and he's beautiful everywhere, he's very wrong! [[Noise, lines and laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I beg you very much, this insolent behavior to put an end to it because the ministers are sitting there listening to what we're saying! They may not like it, but they have to respect it because we chose them to be there, not to sit down there...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u721	Not you, Mr. Ermenkov, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u722	...to talk and interfere with the speakers. The Minister cannot be a cause for turmoil in this House, as was the Minister of Finance. Please, this impertinent behavior to end it! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u723	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. As you know, I asked Minister Goranov to sit in his seat, and in the hall the noise was created by the MPs, and that they were not sitting in their seats. We're moving on. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 202 MPs: for 84, against 97, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 14 which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 202 People's Representatives: 118, against 74, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 14 which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 202 People's Representatives: 118, against 74, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u724	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, para. 2, the table, t. 2 "Policy in the field of diagnostics and treatment" (the number "890 481.0") is replaced by "892 481.0." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Georgi Mihailov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. in para. 1: - in item II. The cost of the number is.495 244,2..528 - in t. 1. Current costs s u the number s u475 244,2 s become s u96 084,8 s; - in t. 1.1. Staff of staff of the number - in t. 2. Capital expenditures - the number of..20 000.. becomes.32 - in t. 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number....10 000.. becomes..19 - in t. 2.2. Capital transfers - the number of.10 000.. 13 000.......................... 13 000.......................................................................... 2. III. BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers) - in t. 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget (+/-)..... 479 2. in para. 2: - in t. 1. Policy in the field of promotion, prevention and control of public health, the number..89 358,3................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - in t. 2. Diagnosis and treatment policy - in t. 3. The policy in the field of medicinal products and medical devices is the number - in t. 4. Budgetary programme "Supports" - the number "Supports" - 18 801 "Supports" becomes "26 777,9 "Supports"; - Red "Everything" is the number "495 244,2" becomes "528 084,8". 3. Paragraphs 6 and 7 shall be inserted: It increased by 9,000 thousand. lv. the funds for capital expenditure for the transfer centres of the Hematology of the Budgetary Programme (Budgetary Programme) - Insurance of blood and blood products, as calculated in art. 15, para. 2, p. 2. "Policy in the field of diagnosis and treatment." (7) Increases by 7 000 thousand. lv. Funds under the Budgetary Programme............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nikolay Ivanov, Dencho Boyadzhiev, Nikolay Tsonkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, to create para. 6: The Ministry of Health shall provide at least 18 000 000 thousand. lv. in the order of art. 106, para. 3 of the Medical Services Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 is created. 6: The Ministry of Health shall provide at least 18 000 000 thousand. lv. in the order of art. 106, para. 3 of the Medical Services Act. The Commission does not support the proposal. (November 30th, 2017 Thursday) Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II. COSTS: - in line II. The cost of the number - on line one. Operating costs the number s..475 - in row 1.1. Staff number s. s.207,819.1. is replaced by s. 2208,612.0s. - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number - in row 1.3. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households the number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number - in line 2.2. Capital transfers, the number..10 000,0... is replaced by.13 (b) in Section III. BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers): - in Row III. BUDGETARY IMPROVEMENTS (Transfers) the number?455 - on line one. Budgetary ratio with the central budget the number 2. In para. 2: - in row 2. Diagnosis and treatment policy, the number - on the line All the number 3. Paragraphs 6 and 7 shall be inserted: It increased by 16 359.3 thousand. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. $3,000. lv. capital expenditure funds. (7) Establishes a fund for specializations abroad with a budget of 15 000 thousand. BGN, read in para. Two, row two. "Policy in the field of diagnostics and treatment"....................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in row II. In column 2, the amount of the adjustment is to be increased by 8 100,0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) in row II. 1. Current costs', in column 2, the sum in column 475 244,2 to be increased by 8 100,0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (c) of row II. 1.1. In column 2, in column 2, the sum of the total amount of the loan was increased by 8 100,0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (d) in row III. In column 2, the sum of 455 244.2 is to be increased by 8 100.0 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (e) of row S.1. In column 2, the amount of the total amount of the guarantee is to be increased by 8 100,0 thousand. lv. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1 "Politicals in the field of promotion, prevention and control of public health' in column 2, in column 2, the sum of the sum of the sum of the sum of the total amount of the public health increase by 2 891,5 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (b) of row 2 "Policy in the field of diagnosis and treatment', in column 2, the sum of lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c) of row 4 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • (d) of row lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission proposes an increase in staff funds by 8 100 thousand. lv. under the budget of the Ministry of Health at the expense of the capital expenditure of its budget. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15: Art. 15. (1) Accepts the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018 as follows: (Applied table.) (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes as follows: (By table.) (3) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2018 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2018 by the Ministry of Health as follows: (By table.) (4) The Ministry of Health shall grant compensation to state and municipal health care institutions, and to health care establishments, commercial companies with mixed state and municipal participation in capital, funds from the Revolving Investment Fund under the project "Reform in the health sector" loan "Bul 4565" for the purchase in 2018 of medical equipment and other fixed assets on the basis of contracts for reimbursement of monthly contributions. (5) The funds provided by the order of para. 4 are up to the amount of the recovered and unspent funds from past years and the proceeds from the Revolving Investment Fund under the project under the Health Sector Reform BUL 4565 (BUL 4565) loan.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u725	Statements, coworkers? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u726	Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to two of our proposals, which concern order, production of blood and blood products. The first proposal is related to transplant centers in Bulgaria that deal with the transplantation of haematopoietic stem cells in patients who are life-threatening diseases of oncohematological and oncological diseases. Due to the high toxicity of therapy, severe damage to the body, these patients need very severe and serious haematological animation, i.e. blood transfusions. However, much of these blood products are not provided free of charge by transfusion centres, and they represent only in this sector of clinical medicine a major part, to call it the most simply for the esteemed audience, from therapy. We therefore propose these transplant centers, as their subsidy for blood products includes only the part that closely covers the transplant program, and the preparation is too serious, too linearly long, to be exempted from the payment of these blood products. The second proposal that we have provided to the honourable audience concerns the national security of the country and I ask everyone to pay attention to this proposal. This is the proposal to increase the subsidy again in order "Manufacture of blood and blood products" for the introduction of a new type of diagnostic apparatus, which allows to shorten the window period of detection of transmissible transmitted infections with the transfusions of blood products. We have already had the opportunity to discuss this issue in front of the room once and to share that the rate of infusion-borne hepatitis in our patients, and not only in the field of clinical haematology and oncology, but in all areas of clinical medicine where blood products are used, is alarmingly high. Therefore, I ask all of you to support these two of our proposals, as they have a direct bearing on the effect of therapy and on increasing the security of working with Bulgarian patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u727	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u728	Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I can't help but start with something, and Mr. Gurnevsky will support it. The only world leader who worked at night is Stalin, and the entire administration worked at night to serve him. And how far has it gotten, you'll say, your assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u729	Essentially, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u730	So now, essentially, although in this environment, what essentially? We want an increase of 16 million. 359 thousand. lv. the funding of the hospital programme in the hard-to-reach areas, including 3,000. lv. capital expenditure funds. Colleagues, these hospitals are 66 in number and serve a population of 1 million. Six hundred thousand. Souls. Secondly, we want the establishment of a Fund for Specializations abroad with a budget of 15 thousand. lv. The aim of the measure is to increase the qualification of Bulgarian doctors. We have calculated that instead of paying 10 people expensive treatment abroad, with the same money we can provide the specialization of four doctors and then treating these patients here in the country for much less money. And those doctors who specialize abroad can also train their colleagues. We want to set up a targeted fund for the financial recovery of state and municipal hospital care facilities with a budget of 500 thousand. lv. With this measure, we want to start health reform. I don't know if the political party GERB wants to have a health reform? Looking at the number of MPs present from GERB here when we are discussing the budget of health care, I don't even think you want reform. If we do not resolve the issue of the obligations of state and municipal hospitals, we will cause their bankruptcy, their liquidation. And not only the reform, the reform will be in the direction of purely private healthcare. Maybe it's a kind of reform, too. So, honourable Members, I sincerely hope that you will support at least some of our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u731	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. - What's the line? Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u732	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to make a reply to Professor Yordanov because he touched on a very serious topic, but he did not further develop it, namely that with only 15 thousand. lv. We want to increase the specializations abroad. I want to assure you that the specializations in Bulgaria are also not arranged, are not precise and clear. I can tell you why. Bulgarian children who have graduated from medicine do not remain to specialize in Bulgaria, go abroad. For these children we have invested funds, for these young people, for these doctors from their preschool education to their medical education, and do not stay here because they have not provided funds for their specializations. In most of these specializations under Ordinance No 1 of 2015 were given to hospital structures. What hospital can afford to pay residents and how many specializations will it relax? A second option is the option in which a hospital needs these specialists, but they need to go to another hospital of specialization. That's why the hospital itself has to pay a salary to the resident, so it has to pay the other health care facility. And you can see that these numbers are extremely limited. In this way young people do not develop, they do not have the opportunity to specialize. There are deficit specialties in which we report that more than 60% people are working at retirement age, and thus we repels our people to stay in Bulgaria, to work as doctors in Bulgaria and to specialize. That is why we offer 500 places a state contract "9 million" to the Ministry of Health for specialties that are necessary for the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u733	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Second line? I can't see. Here's your doppelganger, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u734	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I regret that the Minister of Health is not here today to hear something that is very important. Indeed, Professor Klisarova, the issue of specialization is very important. It was part of the reform of Moskov which transferred the debts from the head of the state to the commercial companies of hospitals. That's no way to specialize! As a result, we have a lack of specialists in our country. What can we do? Undoubtedly by providing resources for their specialization. Can we do that? We can. Some say: yes, but they will specialize in Bulgaria and go abroad to work. They will work where they can be realized. I sincerely hope that as long as they specialize, there will be conditions in our country for the realization of our young doctors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u735	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Any other speeches? Professor Klisarova, come in. [[Reply.]] That tail? Everything on medical matters. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u736	Health care is a system in which everyone participates.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u737	It's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u738	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to another extremely important topic. It's under art. 15, para. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, repair and maintenance of equipment and 819 thousand. lv. I'll tell you why. These are the remunerations for the structures of the Ministry of Health. The regional centers, the centers... I'll just say the wages. Why are we offering this? I can tell you what the average salary of the employees in the secondary officers with a budget of 2017. For regional health inspections is 632 BGN.; about the centers for the transfusion of the hematology of what Professor Mihaylov spoke about 855 BGN.; State Psychiatric Hospitals - BGN 886; homes for medical and social care for children - BGN 718; National Center for Infectious and Parasitic Diseases - BGN 819; National Center of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection With these average salaries, how will specialists go to work in these structures? It is natural to have an effusion of specialists and to continuously increase the volume of activities that these services have to carry out and, accordingly, the requirements for the qualification of these specialists. In recent years, medical and non-medical personnel are difficult to find, let alone specialize in, let alone develop. That's because there's no motive in paying for this footage. The analysis shows that there are about 15,000 people working in the system. I can tell by what. At the time of minimum wage are 15% of those 15,000 people. By 2020, if we do not increase the salaries of these employees, they will have about 50% reduced and minimal or close to the minimum wage. Therefore, the increase in the minimum wage, which we welcomed for BGN 510, is good, but it results in a levelling or minimal margin between the pay of the work of highly qualified medical and non-medical experts and those who have an analytical and control function in relation to the positions that require qualified technical staff. If we do not take urgent measures for employees in regional health inspections, in transfusion centres, in state psychiatric hospitals, in medical and social care homes, we will be left without specialists in this area. More than 60% of the people working in them are already in retirement age. There's no one to specialize in. That is why I am calling for 16 million. lv. they are not impossible to provide to the Ministry of Health so that we can motivate the specialists to stay in the centers listed by me, and to motivate young people to go to work there. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u739	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. - What's the line? There are no lines. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u740	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to address you and call you on two things, as we are talking about extremely important topics. To call on the Minister of Health to come to the Chamber, as the topics we are discussing seem to be extremely important, on the one hand. Secondly, please call on the ministers also to stay with us until the adoption of art. 20. Thank you. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u741	Yes, of course, the ministers are here. I'll look into it. I'll invite the Minister of Health. The Resort Deputy Prime Minister is here. Any other speeches? Dr. Naydenova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u742	Madam President, honourable Members! I do not know how serious the lack of the Minister of Health is, but I must assure you that the situation in this Ministry for a number of reasons is mostly the frequent change of ministers, I suppose it is not so good. Moreover, I have information that there are structural changes that do not carry out the good work in this Ministry. A while ago, we were arguing about e-health, and I meant... [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Wait a minute, I'll tell you what the subject is. When I meant... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Please put in order, Madam President. That can't happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u743	Please, fellow Members, you're disturbing the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u744	Given that many of the e-health projects in the Ministry itself have been carried out, but they have reached the level of the e-health service. I'm saying this because I'm guessing there are a lot of serious people out there, despite all the shocks that have occurred at the Ministry. I think that the money is now entirely on the subject, which is being assigned to the function of the Ministry of Health, is definitely not enough. That's what my colleagues found out. That's why they're offering. If we want something done by the Ministry of Health, we really need to help him with more money. I think that my fellow Members on the right here will be pleased with my speech because, first of all, we need to give the new minister a chance to get his stuff together and only then ask him for a job. I think it is unfair and the Commission, which has decided that it will not support this proposal, is not right. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u745	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. - What's the line? Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for procedure. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait till we hear the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u746	Madam President, honourable Members! Today, a few hours of debate is being held on the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, on the one hand. On the second hand, the requirement to be here, the Minister of Health, I believe, was not so necessary, as here is the portfolio deputy prime minister responsible for health care. For this reason, I propose an end to the debate and a vote. Thank you. [[Strong noise, lines and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u747	Please be quiet in the hall! Wait for me to speak! [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Wait, you haven't heard my opinion! You haven't heard what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u748	Wait for what?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u749	What are you waiting for? There's a record of speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u750	You're gonna stop us?! Are you going to stop us again?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u751	I won't stop you. Order, please. Take your seats so I can make a statement on this subject. [[Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll answer Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov, there are statements recorded, so I cannot apply this procedure. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u752	How many people have signed up for a speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u753	Eight. [[Loud noise and shouting in the hall.]] I will not allow a vote on Mr. Ivanov's procedure. To address Mr. Ivan Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u754	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm going back to the National Health Insurance Fund budget. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u755	Mr. Ibrishimov, wait a minute. Please stop Mr. Ibrishimov's time. Colleagues, please take your seats and be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u756	Get them out of here!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u757	Let us calm down and continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u758	And now again to the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund, which is proposed to be increased by 407 million. lv. I would again say that it is extremely insufficient to take into account the liabilities to foreign health insurance funds, which amount to 230 million. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u759	This is the budget of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u760	There are 72 million so-called overdose funds... [[Reply of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u761	Colleague, please. You are talking about the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, and now we are talking about the budget of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u762	We're discussing the NHIF budget. [[Strong noise in GERB, shouts: "U-u-u-u."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u763	Colleagues, please be quiet. Article 15? adopted the budget of the Ministry of Health for 2018. We are currently on this article and you are talking about the Health Insurance Fund.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u764	I'm confused. I apologize. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u765	Okay, thanks. - What's the line? I won't. Next statement is George Svilenski. [[Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Svilensky, will you speak on the subject of the budget of the Ministry of Health? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u766	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I hope you'll listen carefully. The subject is very important. It concerns all Bulgarian citizens. It's 12:30, which means zero and 30 hours. Now, on the subject. Article 15. I will read to you what the government offers to decide, honourable Members,...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u767	Let's hear it. We found out what the government was offering. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u768	What is available in the revenue section? Non-taxable revenues.. 40 million; state fees. 40 million; income and property income.. 31 million. $260,000. lv.; fines, penalties, penal interest 6 million 400,000. lv.; other revenues.. only 2.5 million. [[Strong noise in GERB, applause in "BSP for Bulgaria."]] Costs. Current expenses...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u769	Mr. Svilensky, please, let's be serious. If you have a statement on the subject, do so. And reading the chart isn't serious.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u770	In order to make my speech, I must justify what I want to say on what the Council of Ministers has proposed. Isn't that right, Minister? So we continue to read our government budget. Because it's 12:30, and Mr. Tsvetanov and I have a three o'clock meeting. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly 636 thousand. lv.; subsidies and other current transfers from non-financial corporations 636 thousand. BGN, the same;...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u771	When you finish the table, what will you read?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u772	Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households $800,000. lv.; capital expenditures.. 20 million; acquisition of fixed and tangible assets.. 10 million; capital transfers.. 10 million. I'll have a question for you here, Mr. Goranov, but let me...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u773	To the Deputy Prime Minister, to the Deputy Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u774	Ah, to the Deputy Prime Minister. Hello, Mr. Simeonov. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Budgetary relations and transfers 455 million Three hundred and forty-four thousand. lv.; Budget Relations.. 24 million; National Health Insurance Fund.. 24 million. Colleagues, I read you some numbers, I make them up, but no one's making a remark to me. Is anyone listening to what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u775	I'm following your numbers!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u776	And this is your government budget! And you want to accept a health care budget at 12 and a half! What are we doing right now?! Can someone tell me what we're doing right now?! Ms. Karayancheva, I have demonstrated to you what a National Assembly can do at 12 and a half at night after more than 12 hours of work! You keep insisting that we have to work now, and tomorrow we have to sleep until 10 o'clock. [[Strong noise in GERB, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u777	Mr. Svilensky, very meaningful comments have been made by your colleagues. That you have no bearing on the subject is not our problem. Next statement... [[(Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Daniela Daritkova wants the floor. Announcements of Members of the National Assembly from BSP for Bulgaria that there is a replica.)]] Line, okay. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u778	Madam President!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u779	Tell me, Mr. Kirilov! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u780	Good evening. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u781	Good evening. [[Laughs]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u782	Good evening, gentlemen of the ministers. Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. They're mostly comrades anyway. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] Most of the front row is comrades.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u783	Let's be serious, Mr. Kirilov! I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u784	Mr. Svilenski, I'm looking at the budget bill. The capital expenditure is 11 million. 900,000. lv. If you could please explain to me, isn't that a lot? There are no specifics of what these objects are going to be. If you can't and your portfolio Deputy Prime Minister can't, yes, I ask him and tell him in detail where these funds will be invested? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u785	Second line, please, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u786	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Svilenski, I listened very carefully to your speech, but I could not understand from what you quoted us, what the Ministry for Electronic Health offers, what funds will be allocated to the budget of the Ministry for the introduction of electronic management and what is the point of using these funds, given that we have heard here in earlier speeches today of colleagues and Dr. Daritkova that what is being offered in the field of electronic health is actually unnecessary and will be a waste of money and time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u787	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Third line, Mr. Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u788	Mr. Svilensky, right, it's 12:30. I asked my colleague Danny Kirilov to find me the exact text in the Rules. Article 84, para. 3 states: The National Representative may justify the legal proposals within five minutes for each proposal. My reply to you is that you read the importer's proposal and did not justify your proposal and your particular vision on this text for the member we are debating. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]] So I'm asking you to state your opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u789	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u790	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna start backwards out of respect for Mr. Dobrev. Dear Mr. Dobrev, my advice to you is: at least tonight do not ask Mr. Danny Kirilov to interpret the Rules of the National Assembly. Tonight Danny Kirilov sits still, if he can sleep, rest... [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u791	On the subject, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u792	Because thanks to his interpretation a few articles ago, we're standing here right now dealing with bullshit. Each Member of the National Assembly may speak within five minutes of each Member. And now for the questions my colleagues have asked me. I really hope Mr. Simeonov will come out and answer, as I presented part of the proposal to the Council of Ministers. I am confused and I hope that the colleagues who have arranged for a speech afterwards will defend the proposals of our parliamentary group. It would be good for Mr. Simeonov to answer what money is put into electronic management, what will be spent, which hospitals will be closed and who will not? This excites not only us, the MPs, but also the people who sent us here, in this room, despite this late hour. Thank you, I hope you'll take this seriously. [[The National Representative Petar Petrov is going to the stands. Loud shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u793	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u794	I'd like to take a procedure in the manner of conduct. I'm looking at some guys who don't sit in their left seat at all. They used to come here in line. I ask the Quaestors to be in place and do their duty. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Besides, there are recorded people here who talk absolutely nonsense and make fun of us. There, the one who was on the stand was talking nonsense. I ask such people to interrupt them and take their floor as well as those who are about to speak. [[Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u795	Thank you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u796	I propose that this debate be terminated. It is said in the Rules of Procedure that the deliberations should be suspended. [[(Strong noise and shouts in the BSP for Bulgaria.) A group of MPs from their parliamentary group are on their way to the stands. People's representative Ivan Chenchev is yelling: "Don't put this proposal to the vote at all! ")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u797	You had a procedure in the manner of conduct. Here you are, Mrs. Daritkova. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u798	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My procedure is similar to giving the opposition the opportunity to stop embarrassing itself! We can see that the coworkers are not auto- and alo-oriented. They don't know which Law we're discussing right now. They don't know what the lyrics are and they don't motivate anything. [[Applause at GERB.]] They just want to waste the National Assembly's time! I ask you to put an end to the debates under art. 15, let's proceed to the vote and each vote to express an attitude towards what is happening to the budget of the Ministry of Health. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u799	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u800	If you're going to put it to the vote, I'm going to make a reverse procedural proposal!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u801	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u802	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! What my colleague Svilenski read and which was characterized as stupidity is a document made by the Ministry of Finance submitted by the Budget Commission. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If there's bullshit written there, what do we do?! I said, what are we doing?! If this is bullshit that he read, that means you've given us this crap, you're messing with us and you want to vote. If you want to hear our opinion on health issues, be patient to wait for us. That is why I am putting the proposal back on the proposal to put an end to the speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u803	I put to the vote the proposal made by Dr Daritkova to end the debates, as the speeches are not essentially a waste of time. [[Strong noise and shouts from the left, a group of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are going to the stands.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u804	How are you going to put him to the vote?! That's not gonna happen! [[People representatives Georgi Svilenski, Anton Kutev, Ivan Chechev and Tasco Ermenkov go to the stands and deal with the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u805	One of your colleagues is talking about the Health Insurance Fund, you're saying other things...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u806	It's 1:00 in the morning! What should we talk about?! It's okay for them to get confused.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u807	Who's working 15 hours?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u808	To calm the room down, I'm giving it 10 minutes. [[Reply: But we are in voting procedure!]] And I'm confused. There's a vote now. [[Strong noise and shouts, many MPs from BSP for Bulgaria have gathered around the stands.]] Abort the vote and announce the result. [[The group of MPs shall deal with the President. The Quaestors are trying to calm the situation.]] They voted 103 MPs: 98 against 5, no abstentions. Ten minutes' rest to calm the room down. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are asking for a revoting procedure.]] There will be a re-election if you sit in your seats and the room calms down.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u809	That's not gonna happen! We've got a record of speeches!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u810	The coworkers signed up for you too!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u811	I was going to talk about hospitals in hard-to-reach areas. Do you think that's bullshit?! It's about a lot of people who live there! Isn't that interesting for ours and your constituents?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u812	Of course it's interesting. Please take your seats! Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u813	We're not sitting down!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u814	Revoting procedure. [[The group of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are taking the place of the stand and enter into an argument with the President.]] I'm calling a ten-minute recess. Then we'll see what we do. [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are going to the parliamentary group of GERB and specifics with the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Daniela Daritkova and Desislava Atanasova begin.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u815	Colleagues, please take your seats! We are continuing the re-voting procedure. Mr. Ivanov, wait for everyone to take their seats. [[Noise, excitement.]] Let us return the calmness to the House and continue with the speeches on the subject. [[Noise]] Colleagues, please take your seats! Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u816	Madam President, honourable Members! I expected this Parliament, with the change of chair, to have started working in a spirit of understanding. Unfortunately, we see that there are old tricks here to take away the opposition's word, especially on important topics such as health care.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u817	I didn't afford anything like that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u818	Some of the colleagues failed, given that they were enrolled, to express their opinion on the State Budget Act in its part............................................................................................... Most of them failed to vote in the first part. For this reason, I propose a re-voting procedure. Please stop this vicious practice of withdrawing the opposition's voice with various tricks such as an interruption of debates, speeches, provided that there is a record of MPs, as has been the practice so far, in the case of registered MPs, to continue the speeches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u819	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. [[National Representative Philip Popov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] Let us vote and I will give you the floor in the manner of conduct. Please re-voting Dr. Daritkova's proposal to end the debates under art. 15. Vote 196 MPs: 117 against 79, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Popov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u820	Thank you. Dear Madam President, putting to the vote Daniel Kirilov's proposal to extend the plenary session until the adoption of art. 20 is in sharp violation, I believe, of our Rules. I'll explain why. According to our Rules of Procedure, regular meetings of parliament are held on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. You didn't stop the clock, which means we're in the next regular session. It's 1:00, so we're on Thursday. When we adopt these budget texts, which plenary sitting, Madam President, will be recorded? Wednesday day or Thursday day? [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] So are we going on Thursday now, or are we going on Wednesday? [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Awesome.)]] You didn't stop the clock.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u821	We're working on a stopped watch.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u822	There can't be two plenary sessions on the same day.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u823	We're working on a stopped watch.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u824	He's not stopped. [[Noise, lines, cheers.]] There was no such proposal. The proposal was until acceptance of art. 20 and even you confirmed it just now from the stands. That is, on the same day, we hold two plenary sessions. That's a sharp violation of regulations. I propose an adjournment. Let us no longer suffer torture from both the Rules and ourselves, and the Bulgarian citizens with the adoption of this budget, which you are obviously trying to hide from it, you may be ashamed of it, I do not know, these are my opinions. I propose that the meeting be suspended precisely so that we can enter into our Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Proclaims: Bravo (bravo) by BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u825	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. [[The people's representative Daniel Kirilov enters the hall. Revival at GERB.]] Where's Danny Kirilov? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, in the manner of conduct and then Mr. Kutev on the so-called remark that we did not stop by the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u826	Mrs. Chairman! It is obvious that we should specify basic concepts [[noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] from our Rules, including the way we work. Look at what's on the dashboard. What date does it say on the dashboard? 30, Thursday, what time is it? Doesn't mean we're in a new meeting. [[Noise, shouts and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not at all. Colleagues, Parliament is not a municipal council. We are not meeting in favour of the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. We don't have a limit. Where is there a limit in the Rules of Procedure to say: The Parliament meets until one-on-one? [[Reply from MP Philip Popov.]] We have a transcript, colleague. We have a shorthand with accurate time reading. There's no clue here at the meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u827	Two sessions in one day.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u828	It won't, because it's objective coverage and time is running out. Somewhere in the theory, in the doctrine you may have encountered a notion of a stopped clock, but in this case there is no reason to stop the clock. In addition, you yourself have read what are the days of regular meetings. The next norm says: The National Assembly can also meet in the other days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u829	Extremely.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u830	Yeah, overtime. [[Noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm not saying we have an emergency meeting. We have an ongoing meeting, which will be completed, which will have started on Wednesday at 9:00, but will end as we approach, probably on Thursday at 3:00, which does not mean... [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise in the hall.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u831	Mr. Kirilov, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u832	Which does not mean that on Thursday there will be no regular meeting at 10:00 with a faithfully certified time at this meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u833	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. [[Applause from GERB.]] The way you're holding Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u834	Mrs. Karayancheva, dear colleagues! Why couldn't I have done what happened and ended the debate in this way? At least, because under art. 15 were expressed a few meaningful ones in my opinion. I think there is no Bulgarian citizen who, when confronted with the system, does not realize that there is no footage. Part of the fact that the footage is not in the system concerns art. 15 " and specializations, and in terms of staff costs, i.e. salaries. All this says about leveling the minimum wage accordingly that in places hygienics take almost as much as doctors.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u835	To me, Mr. Kutev. The procedure is for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u836	It's right up your alley. I'm saying that all of this has real reasons. There's no minister. At the moment when, at least, I expected that, when some reasonable arguments were made, the minister would, for example, come out and say: "People, this cannot happen this year, because the budget is not enough, but let's say, we will take some measures, we will do something next year. The Minister is gone! The deputy prime minister who was supposed to answer is also gone. What are we doing right now? We debate in the middle of the night, at 1:00 a.m., on top of everything, and we don't debate. We talk and then the accusations come about why the coworkers were inadequate. So, what'll it be?! I mean, if we really want to have a health debate, this is the second time I've taken the floor today to tell you this: all of this is being recorded. That way the debate won't work. Even if the journalists don't see it right now, because they're in bed, they're going to look at the tapes tomorrow. Will someone actually answer me how you plan to decide, and one of the gentlemen standing here... Deputy Prime Minister, Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u837	The procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u838	My procedure is to provide an answer to the questions we have asked, to the resonant questions. [[Noise, partial applause from OP.]] I hear Mr. Petrov there, someone maybe more nameless than him clapping. He wants me to stop. Do you want me to stop?! My question is: how do you provide footage for the system? How do we make sure that when you go to a doctor, there are doctors there and not turn out to be... The other day, I took my mother to a hospital and they told me they didn't check because they didn't have doctors. To the hospital! What do they do there if they don't look? Shall I tell you what hospital it is?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u839	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Colleagues, there is a procedure to terminate the meeting. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 90 against 107 abstentions 3. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Svilensky, for revoting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u840	Madam President, you have one last chance not to violate the Rules and Decisions which this National Assembly will take to be legitimate, not to be subject to complaints, disputes. I don't see who's taking advantage of this thing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u841	There's no violation of the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u842	It's one hour, no clock stopped. Whether you should or should not, this discussion will probably be held in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u843	What's the procedure, Mr. Svilensky?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u844	My first procedure is to re-vote, and my second procedure is to support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u845	It's an amendment to Mr. Svilensky's procedure. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 90 against 107 abstentions 3. The motion is not accepted. In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u846	Mrs. Chairman! In view of the decisions you have made, which so far have somehow been a one-time sign-up for speech, a second time you can't. Please give us a regulation on how many speeches we have as opposition before you end our speeches, so that we can prepare ourselves and know how many people can say and how long, so that there is no doubt and triumph that we have abused. Please tell me, how many speeches will the government's rumours be satisfied with? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u847	Mr. Ermenkov, there is no limit to the speeches on the individual members. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Georgi Mihailov. Vote 202 MPs: 68 against 105, abstention 29. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Yordanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 67, against 98, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nikolai Ivanov and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please, voting mode. They voted 201 MPs: 68 against 102, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Please, voting mode. They voted 201 MPs: for 67, against 101, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 203 MPs: for 69, against 102, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Daniela Daritkova, which the Commission does not support. Please, voting mode. Vote 202 MPs: 5 against 80, abstention 117. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Rule 15 in the version of the Commission, according to the Report. Please, voting mode. Vote 202 MPs: 120 against 81, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u848	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. My fellow Members, I would like to say to you that I voted against this budget because, with this budget, with your proposals for next year, you made fun of yourself and your promises in the election campaign in Yambol district. There you promised and it was a key message that 12 million would be granted. Your future prime minister, then party leader, made it personal that 12 million will be allocated to the equipment and completion of the new Yambol hospital as needed. In the budget that you have now proposed and was confirmed by your votes, the capital costs in general for all hospitals are 10 million. I think you should be a little more consistent, and when you promise something, at least make some effort to fulfill it. I hope that those of you who have pressed today the button with which they adopted this budget will have the opportunity to come to Yambol one day, to see the citizens of Yambol and the area in which hospital they are forced to be treated and hopefully in the next year and for the next budget to make sure that what is promised is realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u849	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Come in for a second negative vote, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u850	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, firstly, I voted against this debate on healthcare is a vaudeville and something unheard of in the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Secondly, because this budget guarantees absolutely no reform of healthcare. Thirdly, for the first time, I have the feeling that the opposition is actually offering the government what they have promised in their election campaign and at the same time supporting your proposals and your priorities. You do not support the increase of funds under the Programme for the Sick in the hard-to-reach areas. You don't support capital expenditure. And something else, our proposal for 500 thousand to pay off the debts of municipal and state hospitals is abdication of the state from health care in Bulgaria. You'd better stand here on this stand and say you're only going to private healthcare in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u851	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u852	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I did not support art. 15 of the proposed budget, since after the adoption of both the budget of the Health Insurance Fund today and with the budget of the Ministry of Health we are witnessing a clear example of refusing health reform. With the vote on the budget of the Ministry of Health, you have lost your last chance to wager any health reform. With this proposal, it became clear that the areas in which Bulgarian citizens will not receive medical care will become more and more. We therefore requested a much clearer commitment from the state to these regions. It is clear from the state of health at the moment that municipalities are having difficulty bearing this responsibility for health care. That's why we wanted to transfer funds, transfer capital to them. You didn't support that either. You continue to serve the policy of concentrating medical facilities in several major cities. They become bigger and bigger, the budgets they use from the Cassata to become more and more at the expense of entire territories of the Bulgarian country, at the expense of Bulgarian citizens who are deprived of medical care. You make several owners of such medical facilities very rich at the expense of everyone else. Right now, with the Cashier's budget and now art. The ministry's budget, 4 billion and 700 million will be spent on a.................... and there will be no result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u853	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mrs. Angelova, we continue with the Report......................................................................... 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u854	Under art. 16 has a proposal from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16% para. 1 Section III of row 2.1.1. for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II, EXPENDITURE: - in row II, the cost of the number - on line one. Current costs the number - in row 1.1. Staff the number s..322 996,2...503 - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' by "supplied'. - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number - in line 2.2. Capital transfers, the number..10 000,0..... 13 (b) in Section III, BUDGETARY PROMOTIONS (Transfers): - in Row III. BUDGETARY AFFECTS (Transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number - in row 2. Budgetary relations with other budgetary organisations the number..-498 019,1................................................................................................................. - in row 2.1. Transfers provided the number - in row 2.1.1. for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the number.... 83 - in row 2.1.2. for the State Higher Schools, the number 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. Policy in the field of comprehensive, accessible and quality pre-school and school education. Lifelong learning the number b) in row 2. Policy in the field of equal access to quality higher education and development of scientific potential the number c) on line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u855	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u856	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! In the State Budget Bill, education funds increased by 409 million. lv. These are mainly funds to cover the increase in the remuneration of pedagogical specialists. That's what we support. However, we believe that the pay of labor is not the main and far is not the only incentive for the Bulgarian teacher. Achievement of quality education requires not only motivated teachers, it also requires appropriate to the new required learning environment. In this sense, the change in the philosophy of delegated budgets is also a step in the right direction, however, how visible and tangible this step is to be understood. In order not to aprobate the changes in the whole system, as happened with the Pre-school and School Education Act, we propose developing a new model of delegated budgets and a methodology for its application to be ascribed from 15 September 2018 in several pilot municipalities. To this end, we offer a 30 million-dollar financing. lv. In the draft budget, we do not see much concern for education in depopulated areas, excluding funds under the standard for an institution which standard includes yet unknown what. There is no addition to the so-called conditional expenditures, which was introduced by the Oresharski cabinet, as an attempt to correct the operation of the principle, the money follows the student, but we still do not know what the small schools will receive and whether the increase will be enough to begin the process of their emergence, in a figurative way, of the misery in which they are forced to exist. Here we offer 50 million. lv. for a target programme to support education in depopulated areas with beneficiary municipalities or we offer a total increase of 90 million. Five thousand. 600 BGN, increase of funds in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, p. 1, that is, the number 524 million. 252,000 becomes 604 million. 257,8 thousand. leva. The Ministry of Education's report on the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria in its section of education and science states that funds for development of kindergartens and schools are foreseen for 2018 at the amount of 62.1 million. lv. This includes the intended means for improving the material base of municipal and state kindergartens, including the complementary standard for material base of schools. In the framework of this activity, funds for the transport of pedagogical specialists from their place of residence to their place of employment and back to 14.7 million are also considered. BGN, i.e. the material base remains 47.4 million. BGN, or the problem of the school environment, the reduction of inequalities between schools and between the opportunities they provide is not solved by the proposed draft budget. Despite the concerns expressed by us and our general disagreement to finance private schools and kindergartens with the Bill we are discussing, changes are also being made to the Preschool and School Education Act in art. 287, para. 1. The point of these changes is that the state will not only finance private schools and kindergartens, but will apply the same standards to them, i.e. in addition to the number of children and students and the number of groups and classes and type of institution. In other words, the state takes care to correct the negative impact of the principle. The money follows the student, not only for public and municipal schools, but also for private ones. The care of the state is not only small municipal schools, but also private schools. Strange and extremely unacceptable. And here are arguments of the kind, that these funds are 7 million. BGN, are small compared to the general budget for education, are inadequate. Let us remind ourselves that private hospitals at first were units, but now far from that, and the problem is clear to everyone. Is that what we want in education? Changes in art. OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 2 of the Law on Education concern the activities of feeding children in compulsory pre-school education. In a word, the collection of fees for feeding children in compulsory pre-school education is legalized. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I believe that since we are already talking about such mandatory coverage, even in 4-year-olds, it is fair for the state to also finance the lunch feeding of children in these age groups. [[Comments from GERB. Proclaims: "The Time, the Time! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u857	Mrs. Anastasova, finish!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u858	The system, honourable Members, must work under predictable and secure conditions, and this requires national, public and relevant political consensus. The adoption of the Education Act and the Budget Bill we are discussing and the rejected proposals within this National Assembly are an example of how this consensus does not happen. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Here, this is not how reform is made in the most important area for the future of the country, and I am not surprised that it is not there. And by the way, with the entire organisation of today's budget adoption session, you are once again demonstrating precisely that a national consensus, unfortunately, cannot be achieved. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u859	Thank you. Here's a line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u860	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Anastasova, in my opinion, many of the things that are important to say about secondary school have not been said. I am very interested to hear your opinion on other issues that you have not been able to mention in your speech. What is most important is that at the moment the Chamber presents the attitude of the Bulgarian Parliament towards Bulgarian education and to Bulgarian science. It was full a little while ago, and it's empty right now. That sounds like absolutely all the parliamentary groups here. Until Bulgarian education actually becomes a priority for the Bulgarian state, our country cannot change the direction it is moving in, and it is precisely down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u861	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Dear Mr. Mirchev, for the second time you have offered the opportunity of the speaker to supplement the time during which he can justify his speech. You don't do this by line, you bend the rules. That is not a line if someone has not understood or if the speaker has failed within the five minutes, as the Rules provide, to justify, this is no longer corrected in that order. Is there another line? Yeah, come on in. Let it be a line indeed, follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u862	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I fully agree with the proposals and those expressed by my esteemed Mrs. Anastasova, but I would like to touch on another point which I did not hear in the speech, and it is precisely related to the career development of the teachers because I think he is part of the problem. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u863	Mr. Tsonkov, I'm sorry. The line is an objection. This is the definition of a line in our Rules. You started with the statement that you fully agree with the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u864	I said one part of the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u865	And who are you not with and what do you disagree with? If you don't clarify, I just don't have a chance to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u866	Yes, I'm specifying. I'd like to add to the career development of the teachers. [[Noise and line from GERB.]] Please, Mr. Chairman, I don't think you need to interrupt me like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u867	It is necessary, because we cannot deviate from the rules and I pay attention to you. Is there anything you don't agree with? Do you have an objection because this is the procedure you asked for?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u868	Yeah, I told you. First of all, I would like to draw attention to the career development of teachers and I think that it should come as a proposal from us. I would also like to give a friendly criticism to Mrs. Anastasova that teachers not only pay is important, but career development is also important. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I believe that attention should be paid to small towns. We talk about it all the time, but we don't really see politics towards small towns, small schools and the school environment. This will show the reference that can be made at the Ministry of Education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u869	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov. We assume there was some disagreement in the second part. [[Noise and lines.]] Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u870	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In the previous statement, I cannot agree with the findings that have been made. On the contrary, things are far worse than what has been said here before us. I expect the defendant to disprove me in this direction. I'm telling you, in small towns, things escalate. I have also asked the Minister a question: why is it allowed to distribute teaching tools in foreign languages by political forces? I didn't hear that in the findings here. That's why I say things are worse. If you can disprove me in this direction, I really want to hear it from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u871	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. That's a line. I didn't interrupt. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u872	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ivanov, hardly the subject of discussion in the proposals for the budget for education are illegal actions of political or other organizations and the distribution of literature in foreign languages in Bulgarian schools. In this respect, there are authorities that can deal with this thing and must take appropriate action. About things getting worse. I think I said enough from the point of view that this budget is putting aside enough funds to increase the teacher's fees, in fact, they are never enough, but a tangible step forward, but not for the material environment. I even said that the school environment in some schools is under all criticism, I said that they work in some miserable conditions. I don't see what's more drastic than that. And the fact that this budget doesn't decide that, I think I justified it. With regard to other colleagues and their lines. There can be a lot of talk, it can also be said that there is not enough care for medical care in schools, that there are not enough funds in the budget for the remuneration of medical professionals there, which is a serious problem, as well as many other things, but within five minutes you cannot say everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u873	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Are there any other statements? Mr. Stoynev, since I have a list of eligible MPs from the BSP group, should I provide this opportunity? Speculate because there are willing ones. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] On the list presented to me by Professor Klisarova. Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u874	Dear Mr. Chairman, I think there are only gentlemen of ministers left, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister! I would like to draw attention to the budget in its section on the funds allocated to state universities. Our proposal is that the increase will be of 41 million. BGN 494. Why am I making this offer? I want to tell you that these funds are intended for the inherent research and artistic and creative activities. Please, I would like you to note that in art. 90, para. 9 The law provides that 10% of the subsidy to state universities will be granted for research and artistic and creative activities. In fact, for nine years now, we have not tried to implement this Law, because only 8 million are foreseen in the 2018 budget, instead of those required by Law 41 494 million. lv. Why we need to maintain our higher schools, I think I do not need to convince you of this, but I suggest that these funds we will allocate to them should be considered so that the state can bear the fees for training students in specialties, which are necessary and strategic for the development of the economy of the state, and these students should make a commitment to work in Bulgaria for three years in these priority directions. This can be secured by seven million leva. To make a target programme for the support of students in their scientific work for young researchers, there we offer another 5 million. leva. You know our proposals for minimum wage thresholds at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and at the Agricultural Academy. I think we should take our positions very seriously. Here I am convinced that we think together that there can be no remuneration under the current regulations for obtaining a scientific degree of Doctor and Doctor of the Sciences between 15 and 30 BGN. This sounds frivolous and there is no way to motivate these people to participate in research, there is no way to motivate young graduates to stimulate themselves to scientific work, but why they will become assistants for a minimum salary of BGN 510.? No, they're not going to be assistants. But if we break our system of higher education, it's a common circle, we break our system of secondary education. If teachers are not prepared, we are all unanimous, teachers are the key factor in quality preschool and school education. Well, if there's no one to teach these teachers, to qualify them, to teach them, to train them, how will we have quality secondary education? If we don't have science, how are we going to have scientists developing and developing universities? And how will there be innovation and economics? Let's seriously think about these things and not ignore the funds we offer to support higher schools, public schools in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u875	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u876	Don't fight... Anton Todorov is gone, and you and Klisarova have already started.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u877	Mr. Chairman, I heard some lines from the Chamber regarding Professor Klisarova. Please, let's respect each other, colleagues! And I recommend you, Mr. Chairman, when she comes out for the duvet, find her easier than the first time. You just didn't notice her. Thank you. Let me tell you, fellow Members, what provokes Professor Klisarova's opinion in me. With all due respect to her, I'd say I'm even slightly angry, as a university teacher, I'd like to tell her this. Dear Professor Klisarova, I disagree with your proposal regarding support funds, support funds, as you have exposed it to young scientists. You're offering a modest sum of $4 million. My opinion is, excuse me, that these funds should be more and not only more, but be set on a project principle and at the Research Fund. That's why I think these funds should be at least five million. This one first. Secondly, on what you set out as an opinion to take over from the state of the fees for students who have already committed to work in Bulgaria, notice, in Bulgaria, and students in priority directions. What amusing amounts are we talking about, Professor Klisarova? I apologize for saying that, but I apologize for opening your front... [[the President signals that time has run out]] Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. We'll talk later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u878	Thank you. Another line? I won't. Professor Klisarova, you have an opportunity for a back-up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u879	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Ministers! Thank you for this remark, because we would all like these funds to be more, but they can be really invested in the "Science Research" Fund in relation to doing a session for young scientists, but it is important to have science in universities as well, not only at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u880	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u881	Yes, you're going to tell me that there should be science in universities, and I absolutely support that opinion. That's why I think we should be more focused on putting aside the opportunities of the university, the 41 million that we're proposing, 10% to go really for science at universities. And something very important, when we talk about young people and students, I want to tell you that we haven't thought about it, since 2009 they haven't been renovated, they haven't invested money in student dorms. Two billion we set aside for sanitization, just one comma, to include the student dorms. There, if we estimate how many individuals live, see that they are the most densely populated. There are young, promising people living there, God forbid there are more children in these dorms. Last but not least, public funds go to the public sector and we do not invest in private. Let's think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u882	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Mr. Popov for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u883	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Dear Mr. President, looking at the empty right-wing part of this House at this hour, please enter into the role of really President and invite the MPs from the ruling majority to take their seats, yet we are discussing important topics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u884	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Every single representative knows the agenda, knows what's going on in this room. I'll summon them. Mrs. Lecheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u885	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament who have remained in this Chamber! Apparently, most of the government gets sleepy, and they're probably resting somewhere. Dear ministers, notoriously it is known that the model of Bulgarian education produces functionally illiterate; it is not known that more than 30% of children are overweight; but it is known that this model of education produces more and more children who cannot be realized. You know very well that your studies also show because you have made them that only 2% of children in the educational system are covered in organized forms of sport. And you very correctly remembered, ladies and gentlemen ruling that obstacle to this and that the conditions for this are the state of gymnasiums and school courts. And many times I listened to you during the campaign of the parliamentary campaign, from the mouth of the Minister of Sports, from your Prime Minister, who said he would allocate 130 million to restore school halls. Moreover, you have listed school gyms in 300 schools that do not have school halls. And you've taken up this difficult task, assigning 130 million to rebuild school sports infrastructure, to rebuild these school gyms. So my question is here because I asked the Minister of Sports, but he didn't answer me, where are the 130 million, where should we read them? Is there a program, is there a criteria, is there a standard for physical environment? You announced them several times during the campaign, dear Mrs. Daritkova. Veliko Tarnovo region has been deafened by the false news your government has once again broadcast, and I am asking this question for a reason. If someone from your committee could tell me where to read the 130 million? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u886	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Request for a statement from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u887	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! On the eve of the protests of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, I do not know if you are familiar, tomorrow BAS will come out with black flags in protest that the outrageous behavior of liquidation continues against them, even today, yes, today this thing will happen. So I want to base the 15 million we want more in the BAS budget and I will be specific. First, I'm going to talk about the alimony of BAN's PhD students. That's an average of about 600 people a year. Since 2011, after a drastic cut in the Academy's budget, this allowance is not provided in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences subsidy, which is a gross violation of art. Art. 47, Art. 91 of the Law on Higher Education. Doctoral support amounts to 900,000 a year, plus 3.6 million for scholarships, a total of four and a half million of those 15 we want. This amount must be provided to the Academy in accordance with the legal requirements. After that, the funds for compulsory activities with which BAS performs national obligations of the State. In the obligations of BAS there are certain activities which it performs on behalf of the State. You're all watching the weather forecast and finally you're all hearing the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology at BAS. I can continue, but such duties BAS has ranks. Here the necessary funds are about 5 million. And 500,000. Subscription and access to an international database. The scientific activity cannot be carried out without access to these databases. In addition, Bulgarian publications reach the world scientists precisely through these databases. We're talking about about 800,000 here. lv. Means of heating, water and electricity. energy something that every citizen pays for. It's natural when you work, when you go to work, you also have electricity and heating. Such funds of BAS systematically, entirely, have been missing in the Academy's budget subsidy for years. This requires for years the Academy to pay overheads from its own funds, including taking from project money, i.e. from the money it should make science whose rules do not allow such costs. We're talking about 5 million here. lv. That's all $15 million. lv. We don't want an extra 15 million. lv. to cover various costs. We want to survive the BAS. I'll pay attention to you here. Mr. Tomislav Donchev and Rumyana Bachvarova, in charge of the Academy, determined that the Existenz-Minimum for the existence of BAS was 94 million. lv. That's exactly the 15 million. BGN, which we offer, will cover this exotic minimum. We are talking here entirely about the lack of alimony of the existence of scientists. What are the springs? All contracts for the implementation of the scientific projects of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences are targeted and can only provide for a minimum financial resource. That is, if the state does not cover the maintenance, they cannot do so through different contracts. The same applies to the Operational Programme for Science, for which there is part of the budget for this type of maintenance, but is still minimal. And here I'll pay attention again. The interdepartmental committee that should take care of the progress and rescue of this Operational Program, which Mr. Donchev is again chief, last week or this week I am already mistaken because of the time exactly which day we are, is determined that she is facing a complete failure. Mr. Donchev, if you can tell exactly how much the Bulgarian state will lose over the 50 million. BGN, who are already sure that they will be lost under the Operational Programme for Science? You lied that this would save Bulgarian science, but that will not happen. What are the conclusions? The scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences take 200 leva. lower average salary than the average salary for the state and twice as low as the average salary for Sofia. You say you'll give money according to quality. Excuse me, but 18% of the scientists in the country produce more than 60% of Bulgaria's recognized international scientific production and 70% of Bulgarian scientists' patents. In person Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, so, quite brazenly said that the money for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is handing out money to the kapak. Excuse me, but if we're talking about quality, it's BAS that needs to take money. Because there's a differentiation of payment at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. It turned out that in the entire budget sphere, except in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the money was given. Soon they were raised, I'm graduating, and the salaries of deputy ministers and chief of staff. What you are doing is lynching against Bulgarian science. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u888	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u889	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! Mr. Mirchev, I completely disagree with you on the amount of need of 15 million. lv. for the BAS. So I'd like you to explain to me in more detail what exactly did you mean by that? Thank you. [[(Edition in GERB, lines of MPs from GERB to MP Lyubomir Bonev. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u890	Is there another line to the statement? I can't see. Mr. Mirchev, will you use the right of the backrest to explain exactly what you wanted to say?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u891	Colleague, what I meant to say is, once again, we're proving the genocide on the BAS. There's no money there even to pay elementary overheads. That's why they're coming out with the black flags tomorrow. I personally urge them not to protest only with black flags, but to protest quality until they save Bulgarian science. I'm going to say something here because Mr. Stanilov, whom I don't see in the discussion of art. 1 of the budget said a few interesting things that a person should have dignity, historical memory, I quote, and whether we are trying to deceive ourselves. Mr. Stanilov, I respect you very much because you have always fought for the BAS and its survival. But now I don't see you here for a elementary 15 million. BGN, given that you are in the ruling coalition to fight so that BAS can survive. You said you couldn't impose your fundamental views, but excuse me if science is the foundation for you, if you don't fight for it, then without a foundation, what are we? I'm gonna finish this, mate! I understand why this is the attitude of the governors from GERB to science. Because Mr. Borisov can't put him on an equal line with knowledge, and Winnetou doesn't know what science is. [[Shouts from GERB: Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u892	Mr. Mirchev, let's not abandon the good tone. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u893	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable gentlemen of the Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers! At 01.56 we find again that Bulgaria is facing serious challenges. Some of them are of a global nature, others are of a purely domestic nature. After the debate at the National Assembly on demographic policy, we have found that we have a serious demographic problem. The means of its resolution are different, but mostly related to raising incomes, justice, security, opportunities for realization. But actually, the key word is education. In order to solve the demographic crisis, good education is needed, good education is needed for economic growth. For professional realization also good education. For a decent life, a good education. We support that the GERB government finally understood that education should be a priority. But the place of a sector in governments' policy around the world is determined by the percentage of gross domestic product that is invested in it. And now some statistics. In 2009 Stanishev's government split 4.2% of gross domestic product. In 2011 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement') and in Article 108 And now 2018 Also 3,6%. The budget in 2018 in the field of education increased by 490 million. BGN 330 million lv. for wages. However, in the European Commission's survey on education and training, it is pointed out that the costs of education in Bulgaria are increasing, but are still relatively low compared to the European Union. Will these funds be sufficient to overcome the main challenges facing education? And they're extremely serious. First, a large number of teachers are in pre-retirement age, and in the next few years new teachers will be needed and only raising teachers' salaries will not solve this problem. Second, many children do not attend school or drop out early. According to the 2017 survey of education and training of the European Commission for Bulgaria, the share of early departures rose in 2016 from 12.5% to 13.8%, on average for the European Union. 10.7%. And the government has set its target in 2020 to decrease by 11%. Thirdly, much of our students remain at the level of competence that relates to basic literacy and does not develop functional literacy. According to PISA, low results in terms of basic skills continue to be among the lowest in Europe. Fourth, dequalification of labour. Students who have graduated from high school do not understand and cannot work what they have completed. Fifth, lack of motivation for education. Sixth, a violation of equality not so much regarding the opportunity for the student to enter the educational system as well as the fact that schools differ significantly from each other both in the environment they offer and in the teachers who train them. A new approach and an increase in public support for education is needed. Show your will and desire for this by supporting our proposals to begin with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u894	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. [[Noise and applause.]] Are there any lines? Procedure in the manner of conduct..... please come in, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u895	Dear Mr. Chairman, I'm addressing you. This is the second time the Minister of Finance hasn't stayed in his crib. [[The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov spoke on the path with MPs from GERB.]] Please summon him. He can't sit with his back when he speaks to the MP.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u896	That's a good point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u897	I understand his disrespect and inadequacy, but it's time he knew his place that he was here working for us, not the other way around.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u898	Mr. Mirchev, you don't have to justify it. Your remark is reasonable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u899	Mr. Chairman, if we don't take action, his ear might get red when he walks to the crib! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u900	Mr. Minister Goranov, please keep order in this room. Take your rightful place. There is an objection that you are elsewhere in this Chamber, not what is envisaged. Please, sit in the chair. [[Mister Vladislav Goranov goes to the seats of the Council of Ministers.]] However, please also the Members of the National Assembly who are right in the Chamber to take their seats. Those who will not sit, please step out of the room and finish their conversations there. I'm waiting for order to be restored. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? There's a registered MP, I can't say no. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u901	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! Thank you as a start for the well-created order in which we can talk face-to-face, not in the back. Thanks, guys. [[M Minister Vladislav Goranov's reply.]] And it makes sense, Mr. Minister, that your statement is unfounded. Just a few hours ago you decided and assigned the fate of Bulgarian mothers to take care of their children and themselves with the scarce 380 BGN. a month. You decided, gave the fate of the Bulgarian pensioners by refusing recalculation of all pensions granted until 2013, and this concerns two million Bulgarian pensioners who are actually our mothers and fathers. Only 750 million!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u902	It's not about the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u903	And if, in a way, the smallest and the oldest hopes are lost, the hope remains, in particular, for the secondary school education, in which we want a modest 80 million. [[(Shouts from GERB and OP:]] We want him to prevail over political bias in the name of Bulgarian education. We request that the amount for school education be 604 million. BGN, not 524 million. lv. in art. 16.2. We're offering, as I said, only 80 million. lv. to develop a new model of delegated budgets, to develop methodology and to finance 30 million. BGN, for a targeted programme for support for education in the depopulation regions. 50 million lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u904	Go, go, go!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u905	Because, ladies and gentlemen, merely the promotion and suggestion among society to increase teachers' salaries does not lead to the desired quality of education. As it is now evident, our findings after many meetings with teachers and collectives throughout Bulgaria who work in the institutions of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry only imitates the desire for dialogue. The real dialogue is among the teachers' collectives, between the paperwork and non-pedagogical responsibilities teachers for the notorious 15%. The real dialogue is between parents who at the beginning of the school year and then are unaware of how much their family budget costs to buy textbooks, aids and others. The real dialogue is between students who study on non-up-to-date and sometimes inadequate curricula and plans that do not meet their age opportunities. And the cruelest part is that the dialogue between this triunity in the Bulgarian education system is largely broken. However, in the open place of dialogue a lasting place has found aggression and chaos. The lack of financial care of the state leads to the deepening of these processes. I quote a statement from the Ministry so that I do not be more precise that it is a statement from the Minister: "There are three groups of activities. The first group -- and we're talking out loud about what we're saying -- that's a lot of amazement. The first group are reforms that do not require any funds. These are the changes in the curriculum and curricula. The second group of reforms require funds, but not much. This is, for example, the link with the labour market. The third group of activities are those that require only money. Here's the investment in teachers. I don't know what you're talking about!? Personally, it does not become clear to me, so I call for the state budget to be specific to secondary school, in which many things have not been cleared. And I end up with this: if you gentlemen think education is expensive, try ignorance! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u906	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. A line? Mr. Velkov, come in. I didn't understand. Did you ask for a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u907	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u908	You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u909	Thank you, colleagues. Thank you for your patience, you asked for this. Once again, Mr. Chairman, on this side of the House, the technique of sign language is excellent and they voted against the Law. I'd like to... [[Heckling]] Yeah, on the subject, of course, on which you're probably out of it. I hear well. Ms. Nencheva, colleague, I apologize for saying this, but you provoked me, with your opinion, to react to the following: first of all, you talked about the curriculum and plans. I will refer first of all to secondary school and I am sure that here a group of people on the right side of the hall will not only understand, but will support me. However, I have not heard anything in what you are saying, I am not saying that your opinion is not comprehensive, about educational programs and plans of patriotism, of patriotism, of lazarovism, on which Mr. President is speaking now, without being given the word. Please make an observation. [[Heckling]] I'm going back to patriotism and mostly military training. Where is the place of all this? You're talking about millions. Where is the place of those aspects in the curriculum and plans regarding the education in the history of religions, in terms of aggression and violence at school?! Our children should be, Ms. Nencheva, so prepared that when one day they become MPs, they should be iron and able to work not until 3 but 4:00 in the morning! Thank you. [[Applause and cheering by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u910	The weather, Mr. Velkov. Mr. Lazarov, a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u911	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! I was under the impression that there was a line to the Ministry's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u912	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Any other lines? I won't. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go, Ms. Nencheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u913	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues across the street for their gentlemanly attitude on the right. We can work even more on your education and education. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] Particularly on the issue of curricula and teaching plans for patriotism, I think this is an extremely serious topic and I suppose it will be accepted by colleagues in this House. What has long been lacking in our education is the great philosophy of our secondary education, which has failed to see once again the people who make up the curriculum that lack the inter-frontal connections that you shared...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u914	What does this have to do with a second budget reading?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u915	...there is no in-depth analysis of what students should learn after this is done in working groups that very thoroughly and long enough work, and their activities are funded. I hope my answer was comprehensive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u916	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. A line? Mr. Petrov? It's a douche bag, that's not a statement. [[Heckling]] Professor Bachvarova gave a sign, excuse me, excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u917	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's go back to the numbers and rather what's missing in the budget for the Ministry of Education. Mr. Minister, 20 days ago from this tribune you stated that the money for children's meals and for feeding children from I to IV grade is insufficient. Unfortunately, what you're offering us today is the same. Does this mean we'll have the same horrible snacks and the same disgusting child feeding? And one more thing. With this budget you offer and legitimize the collection of fees from children, five-six-year-olds who must attend kindergartens. So, we oblige children to go, but we do not provide them with food and we burden them once again, especially in areas where this is absolutely impossible for them. I'm very sorry, but this budget you're offering us is no concern for the children. It's a populist budget that gives money to a cock, and only thinks about the populism of the government.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u918	Thank you. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Piralkova, you gave a sign. Excuse me, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u919	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Ministers and Deputy Prime Ministers, colleagues! I'll be very brief. During the discussion of the budget Mrs. Stoyanova said that the debates will be in the Chamber. And since they're debates, what we ask as questions, we should at least get adequate answers. I turn on the subject, but we propose that the BAS budget be increased by 15 million. [[Heckling]] My colleague grounded them a 15 million increase in the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which satisfies the minimum needs and requirements that BAS must receive in order to carry out its normal activities. However, in speeches before the adoption of the budget at first reading, there was a number of 65 million. BGN, which will go for science based on the projects. Believe me, Minister, all scientific organizations want me to work on projects when there are rules. And the BAS will work. First of all, where's the 65 million? Where are they because they're not seen in the Science Research Fund? If they're not there, how will they be distributed? For me, this is a big mystery because 2018 starts on January 1st, and if there are no rules and order to absorb these funds, there is no way they can be used from now on. Last but not least, I would like to say that we adopted a research strategy this year. There are some numbers that need to be provided by budget 2018, and, unfortunately, this is also not seen in the budget. If there is an opportunity to answer the question: will science really be a priority, will the Ministry of Education stay only or will science forget it at all, as a direction of development of the Bulgarian economy? Thanks. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u920	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u921	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. See to the east it enlightens you know such a good song. Now, Mr. Chairman, I am making a replica of Professor Bachvarova and I disagree with the way she spoke. For me, he was disrespectful to his colleagues on the left and on the right. She was always addressing Mr. Minister Goranov, only looking at him and talking in a certain minority tone. Please, let's be, colleagues, a little fresher, the night is just beginning. Be safe! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u922	The line, I think, calls out the back, but still. Are there any other lines? Professor Bachvarova? No, he doesn't have a back. In the manner of conduct please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u923	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Chairman, there were specific questions to the ministers and specifically to Mr. Goranov. It is perfectly normal to answer these questions. After all, that is why the ministers are here, not to sit with the MPs. Let them answer the questions as at the beginning of today...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u924	Mr. Stoynev...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u925	Let me speak. At the beginning of today, remember when we discussed the budget of state social security, Mr. Petkov, after our request, came out and explained the reasons, ideas, vision, policies, and then we accepted them and continued working. Now that the questions of the MPs are not answered, unnecessary tensions are being created and it is quite normal for the ministers to come out, to take attitude, to explain if they know what the policies are, because I was under the impression that we might be sitting here and we do not know what is happening here and what is being watched. To explain to the MPs and then to really have the calm, and not to ask constant questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u926	Thank you. I didn't understand what I had to change the way I behaved.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u927	Invite them in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u928	They know. The ministers must know that at any time they can take the floor. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u929	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's 2:20. [[Noise and lines.]] Apparently the ministers do not want to respond, but there are people working in the public administration in the Chamber. I see at least 5 people in the back, upstairs, there are 15 people on the balcony. We're at 10:00 a.m. tomorrow at work, but they're at 8:00 a.m. at work. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, honourable Members, let's at least let them go to rest, because tomorrow at 10:00 a.m., it's us, and they're 8:00 a.m. to work. There's no point in them watching us fight. My proposal is, as we have allowed them in this House, that we now vote to release them from this House. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u930	Mr. Svilensky, we've voted on a decision, so don't stop us from fulfilling it. There's no way to release people on the balcony with a solution, there's no such procedure. Are there any other statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u931	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Members! I cannot fail to speak on this subject for two reasons. The first reason is that it seems that the gaps in the educational system in the first seven years, in the secondary and higher education are there - I say this for myself and for all of us. To them, the freshest and brightest example as if we were us. The second reason is that I am an alumni of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I was a PhD student at the former Institute of Sociology at BAS, where I won a regular PhD. It seems to me that you have largely underestimated at the budget level our proposal to increase the budget from 83 to 98 million. lv. not just because one of us wants to comply with the principle of Bear Pooh "The more the more the more the more I say, not just because I can say that my colleagues, the then scientific associates lived and continued to live, I am not ashamed and I am not afraid to say it on the brink of misery, misery and survival. Unfortunately, this is so for the majority of Bulgarian citizens. This is not the reason why I should take occasion and pay attention once again to our proposal to increase this budget. I want to assure you that the nature of modern knowledge, the nature of science, the cumulative effect of scientific discoveries and innovation on national economies is enormous. Bulgaria is falling behind with huge steps from the global development of modern knowledge. I don't think with this 15 or 16 million we're going to catch up with the world, but I'm already afraid we're too late to save this country because everyone here is declaring such efforts. I would like to ask you once again to reconsider this, because bear in mind the following. There are still institutes in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, which have largely scientific potential and scientific discoveries, but do not have the opportunity to reach the registration of a useful model, its patenting and implementation in the economy, and this is what we all suffer from. Now is hardly the best time, I see that the mood is very strange in the whole room, but I want you to very seriously appreciate these arguments of mine, because when we deprive the elite of Bulgarian science of the opportunity to give to its own country, the economy and the society what it can give, we are very quickly walking towards something that I can say will not have a pleasant ending. I think it's a resonant offer. I think there are some possibilities, some resources. I think even you can tell me better than me how to do that. The point is to have a clear awareness that this is a priority. Otherwise, I was going to tell you different melodramatic stories from being a PhD student at the Academy of Sciences, but I think you're all familiar with the situation of these people. In summary, I do not plead to raise their material level, I do not plead only for this, they are already getting a very high salary. I plead the science to become that cumulative factor of the Bulgarian economy, as it is in all normal countries. A few hours ago, I came home from a meeting of the Central European Initiative of the Minsk Parliamentary Assembly, and I have to tell you that even in a country like Belarus, investment in innovative funds, linking science to technology and the creation of technological science parks is a priority. To tell you the truth, I was kind of embarrassed that it wasn't a priority for us. I hope you'll hear my words correctly and thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u932	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? Mr. Popov, the line. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u933	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kostadinov, you spoke correctly about BAS, but you didn't mention anything about schools in small towns and small municipalities and what happens there with the principle. In Vidin and Montana, where you are a Member of the National Assembly, in Vratsa, in smaller towns and municipalities there are no more students. What do the government do? I can give you an example: very recently, the Agriculture Technicum has moved on to Vidin Municipality. This community is almost bankrupt, and there is no way to take care of this technician. I'm sure Montana has the same problems. [[Noise and lines.]] I am very interested to hear your opinion on this topic about small towns, small municipalities and what is happening there with schools. Do these schools continue to exist de facto and will they exist in the near future?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u934	Mr. Popov, we've defined what the line means. Take an example from Mr. Velkov, who shows innovation and ingenuity in formulating lines. I cannot agree that your question with which you give the floor to Mr. Kostadinov is a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u935	I think my question is a line because I disagreed with Mr. Kostadinov because he developed only the issue of BAS, but did not in any way touch on the topic of secondary education and the principle of money follow the student.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u936	I won't accept that there's a line. Mr. Velkov, we are very interested in your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u937	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Actually, what I'm trying to say is that I forgot my line. [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u938	Thank you, too. You've been brief and thorough. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Kostadinov, which of the lines will you answer first? [[Laughter, excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u939	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable ministers, colleagues! I, unfortunately, cannot answer the second line. [[Laughter, excitement.]] As far as the first line is concerned, to bring peace, that's what I said. Of course, Mr. Popov, you noticed this pass. I'm not an expert on everything, I was talking about BAS. You have rightly noted the following. There is no way, dear colleagues, that wonderful, smart students, graduate students, PhD students, research workers, big and small doctors will appear after there are really major breakthroughs in secondary school. It's obviously a broken education chain. In this sense, I did not emphasize my speech on this, because I am not so familiar with the question. I accept the line and thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u940	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. You are welcome to come to the people's representative Hamid Hamid for a procedure. We're listening. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u941	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, deputy prime ministers who are not ministers, honourable Members of Parliament! On behalf of the DPS Parliamentary Group, I ask for a six-hour break. [[Laughter]] I know, Mr. Chairman, you're going to tell me that the Rules say within 30 minutes, but the Rules have been violated so much tonight, tonight and this day, so we won't break it, we'll only interrupt this long session on Thursday. It's Thursday's meeting, so give it a six-hour break and we'll move on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u942	If the offer is serious, I have no right to oppose it, but I can limit the rest to 15 minutes. [[Laughter]] Do you maintain the request if the rest is within the limits of the prescribed by the Staff Regulations between 15 and 30 minutes? [[Heckling]] Withdrawn. The motion has been withdrawn. [[Noise, laughter and lines.]] It was reasonable, but it was withdrawn. I'm closing the discussion. We're going to vote on art. 16 of the budget. We begin by voting on the unsupported proposals. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev. Please, voting mode. Vote 190 MPs: 79, against 90, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. People's representative Stoyan Mirchev with a proposal to re-vote. What is the reason, Mr. Mirchev? We're listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u943	One reason, in my opinion, is that several colleagues failed to vote. The other reason is that there is not one for the United patriots. Mr. Stanilov has always been a judge of science and I think he was mistaken when pressing the button. There are two reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u944	I'm going to rethink the proposal. We re-vote the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev. Vote 193 MPs: 80, against 96, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Please, voting mode. Vote 193 MPs: 81, against 98, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. We're going to vote on art. 16. We are voting on the proposal of the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 195 MPs: 116, against 64, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, Mr. Boychev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u945	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! I waited for this vote, the debate was meaningful, and I sincerely hoped it would have an effect and an understanding. I listened very carefully to the ruling party's event this weekend. There Minister Goranov went out and thanked for the political decision and the understanding of the ruling majority to put education and man at the heart of his policy. We support your commitment and this reflection and change in your policy, as only until a year ago there were no funds for education, although we have a comment on the adjustment of the model and the way the funds will be spent in secondary education. Dear MPs of the majority, humiliating is the attitude towards Bulgarian science! Year after year, we show it in this room. I don't know how we expect Bulgaria to be and have a competitive economy? How do we expect Bulgaria to have a high-tech economy? How do we expect Bulgaria to be, in the words of the Prime Minister, some This is also an attitude towards the future of our country. I was really hoping this would be corrected. Because I'm still going to hear some answers that there were funds that were going to finance science on a project basis. You heard from the coworkers who were just talking here. In this way, we cannot finance and provide adequate wages for those employed in science, and you know it very well. There is no way to motivate young people, there is no way to motivate those who are there with these wages, with this material base, and especially with this attitude that we all show to them, and we do not even provide the existential minimum for the functioning of this system. I regret that once again the National Assembly has shown this attitude towards the future of the country.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u946	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Panchev, perhaps a second negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u947	Dear Mr. Chairman! I voted against the budget that we were considering because as a Bulgarian I am ashamed of the state of Bulgarian science and the attitude towards the Bulgarian academic community. I'm ashamed of people who can barely make ends meet, and they're the nation's elite! I'm ashamed of them because when they retire, we see professors, research workers digging through garbage cans to make a few more bucks to tie up the month. Although colleagues do not accept what I say, but it is true that it is insulting in the 21st century a member of the European Union to have such an attitude towards people who are the elite of the nation and who can give much to Bulgaria for better development in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u948	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. We're moving on to the report. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in. Let's continue with art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u949	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 17: Art. 17. (1) Adopt the budget of the Ministry of Culture for 2018 as follows: (2) Confirms the allocation of the costs under para. 1 by policy areas and budget programmes, as follows: (according to a table in the Report). (3) Confirms the maximum amount of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2018 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2018 by the Ministry of Culture as follows:
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u950	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Alexander Simov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u951	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, dear colleagues! Good morning! Yeah, I can see it's coming. I would like to say a few words about this budget, which is allocated to culture. I noticed a statement or it was part of the transcript of the Minister of Culture who said he was fascinated by the money that was allocated to culture, but by looking at the numbers, I couldn't see where this fascination could come from? Yeah, there's some money being given here, there's something increasing, it's working, it's juggling numbers, but in the end it's obvious that the increase is being given because, you see, there's a presidency coming, to keep these people quiet, to block the mouths of other cultural figures who have the unpleasant quality to protest and to spoil our political rajat. In other words, the most important thing for a culture is missing the great idea to ignite, to inspire people. Culture is not a product of status quo, but it must have some central idea. I will set an example with my own party, which, in its part of culture, predicted several very important things, such as long dreamed mythical 1% of GDP for culture. Something that GERB has been listening to for many years has always had some intention, always has lyrical desires to be done, but never is achieved. Secondly, we have put in place an idea which I think is good to be realised regardless of the fact that it stems from the BSP, namely the cultural check, the opportunity to give young people easy access to culture, and so we will also help cultural figures and everything else. This is a good idea that could be realized. The point is to have the idea of developing culture. What other idea could it have been? To commit to a percentage of Bulgarian music in public media. All our neighbors stress that only we here are in some other intonation environment. It doesn't matter how they have achieved it. It has to be achieved something like this, big ideas have to be placed on the line. When the budget is produced by a right-wing financial guru, such as Vladislav Goranov, the man who produced the great replica. "Society is a cosmological concept, it is clear to us that for right-wing economists cultural policy is only a waste of money. This is the result of this is the budget for culture that we see today. He's unacceptable, and any real person who cares about culture won't accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u952	Thank you, Mr. Simov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u953	Dear Mr. Chairman! On this early morning, I would like to ask you: on what grounds did Mrs. Menda Stoyanova speak from the stands without putting her card? Do the rules in the National Assembly or not apply to it? I warned her that in 24 hours, she'd have problems looking fresh?! [[Laughter]] Now I'd like you to make a remark and say if there are any special privileges to leave my card in the room and so do I. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u954	There are no privileges! Thanks for the remark. I'll keep an eye out for order. Are there any lines to Mr. Simov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go. Mr. Velinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u955	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! In the eighteenth hour of the beginning of this meeting, in the dark doba, as the people said, after we were tired, the time came to talk about culture. I will not recite to you because it will be difficult to interpret what I have quoted you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u956	Please don't engage in dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u957	That's why I'll keep it short. Our group of MPs from BSP for Bulgaria will not support the proposed by you and the parameters in the State Budget Act for 2018 in its part about the functions of............................................................................................ I have a common political opinion that I would like to share with you. From the printout of the transcript of the meeting of the Council of Ministers when discussing budget 2018, we understand that the Minister of Culture has stated, I quote: I am fascinated by the Minister of Finance and understanding, which he demonstrates to the needs of Bulgarian culture and art. Although GERB's programming documents say that 1% will be provided for a budget function, we see that in the 2018 project this is 0.5%. This is practically a refusal to implement reforms, to make policies in the field of culture, which has anyway financially settled and this is notoriously known, as fellow lawyers like to say here. It is true that standards of support for the Chitalishtes and regional libraries will have an increase of 14%. It is true that for the performing arts there will be 10 million more than 2017, but this means that wages in the sector will only be increased by 6%, and so far in many of the divisions are well below the minimum wage announced for 2018. Dear colleagues, the proposal of the then Minister of Culture has not been implemented for three years, which has been adopted, to amend and supplement the Gambling Act, according to which it is proposed under the budget of the Ministry of Culture for the National Fund................................................................................. 9 of the state fees under para. 3 and their variable part by para. 4. These funds from the Gambling Commission are not allocated, are not spent on the budget of the Ministry of Culture and this is the reason why once again it is not helped to eradicate the lack of funding of a number of important sectors for the development and preservation of Bulgarian culture, on which the National Fund of Culture should work, to increase the opportunities for applying to projects, to activate creativity and support of the creative initiative in a number of sectors in which the state, due to lack of budget funds, has withdrawn. This leads to a significant reduction in the criteria in this sector, to turning our country into a talent donor and prepared artists for creative teams in Europe and America. This reduces access to a cultural product in nearly 40% of settlements. This leads to a decrease in the quality of life of the population. This reflects on the opportunities for presenting the achievements of Bulgarian culture in the countries of the European Union and the world. Unfortunately, the lack of funds has a negative impact on the possibilities to detect and preserve the national movable and real... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. I would just like to address a question to the government: couldn't measures be prepared to finance and introduce modern library services? We know that... [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u958	Mr. Velinov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u959	Okay, I'll stop. Make the conclusion of what leads to insufficient reading and awareness of the Bulgarian population. [[Applause from GERB urging an interruption of speech.]] Make some conclusions as to whether, with the systematic underfinancing in this area, we are not involved in the active...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u960	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u961	...slowing the intellectual development of the nation. [[(Applause, cheering:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u962	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u963	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, colleagues! I am provoked, Mr. Velinov, by the theme of community centers, which you have only briefly mentioned. Indeed, you are right that the funds are increasing, but in fact there are no additional subsidies to stimulate the activity of these, I think, few outbreaks of Bulgarianity remain. Thus, they condemn themselves to slow and gradual extinction. And seeing that the right side of the room is eager to hear your thesis in its entirety and fullness, I ask you to continue it. Thank you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u964	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u965	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! It's 7 minutes to 3:00. I would like to ask the honourable speaker before me: what was the relationship between your view of culture and the budget? [[Applause from GERB.]] Who asked you to speak? Did you have any suggestions regarding the budget of the Ministry of Culture? Why do you think it is necessary, with your high culture, intellect and education, to deliberately extend a debate, deliberately promote common views on cultural issues?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u966	Because you wanted a debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u967	Why, according to the regulations...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u968	Is that a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u969	So what is it? A hundred objections. And I can do a hundred more of that. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We are patiently listening to the entire debate, but, fellow Members, I inform you that you are abusing the rights that are laid down in the Rules of Procedure. And you see that now at 3 hours without 6 minutes we patiently listen to your quasipositions, which are generally theoretical, general cognitive I would say, and do nothing to contribute to the particular debate. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u970	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Will you take an attitude?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u971	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I don't understand you doing an assessment of the intellectual nature of what I said or something else you did? [[GERB lines.]] Look, the budget is a meaningful image of the policies a party is leading. There are no policies in your budget because none of the reforms you have announced in your election campaign are currently being implemented. And I only mentioned a few of them. None of this is done. Here, look, I'll give you a simple example. We'll start with art. 10 for the Chitalishtes, we make the change, it is wonderful that we do it, but this is absolutely not enough because, as the Minister of Culture himself said, 30% of the Chitalishtes are fictitious. What do we do with the fictitious and the 55 million we give to the community centers? And if 30 is fictitious, 30% of that money goes down somewhere. [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria ": ……]] What are we doing? [[Applause and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The relationship between theory and practice... By the way, there is a principle in the philosophy of pooping from abstract and concrete to synthesis of thinking, so don't get into it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u972	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. There are no other Members of the National Assembly for speeches. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u973	There's Ivan Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u974	It's possible. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u975	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House, gentlemen of the House, Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank my colleague Chavdar Velinov because everything he said, colleague Kirilov, was actually debated in the Parliamentary Parliamentary Committee on Culture and Media. And that is what colleagues who are members of it can confirm. I will allow myself to draw your attention to Bulgarian cinema, to the undisputed successes of Bulgarian filmmakers at European festivals. Really undisputed successes we should be proud of. In order to support these successes, note again the implementation of art. 17 of the Film Industry Act. For the next three years, no reforms in the sector are envisaged again, and the Minister of Finance, whom the Minister of Culture is so fascinated with, says, however, that more funding can only be available if we offer adequate reforms to him. That's why I couldn't figure out what the Minister of Culture was so fascinated with. I couldn't understand why he agreed so irreproachably to the proposal made by the Minister of Finance without any comments. Otherwise, my colleague Simov is right. He must have a new vision, some idea that will change the current model. Something we actually did with our proposal for the cultural check, which was supported by the sector because we met. A policy that applies at European level, by the way, already works in Italy, colleagues. This, for us, is the beginning of a change, a move of reform, and this is now a true cultural policy. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u976	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I can't see. No other statements have been recorded. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Mirchev. You've already spoken. Do you want the word for the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u977	No, for speaking. I didn't speak of culture. I've only spoken by education.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u978	For culture, no. Excuse me. We've been seeing a lot of each other, so maybe I made a mistake. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u979	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Goranov, I hope you feel comfortable in the she-she-she-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go-go! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm gonna go back to the community center and come back on purpose, because from the election district that I'm from... [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Please punish me so I can continue speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u980	I'll do it after you're done. Please don't interrupt the speech. Mr. Kirilov, I'll give you the floor and I'll take it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u981	From the electoral area from which I was elected, namely 20 Mir "Silistra," I was asked a number of receptionists that the municipality does not allocate any lev for the Chitalishtes and their buildings, and they are municipal property. In Silistra the mayor is from GERB "Dr. Naydenov," and I sent him a question. Here in culture, we purposely have no suggestions to show that, even if we do, and that we do not have the rulers, they do not hear about people's torments and torments. And I will read you only the sentence of Professor Julian Naydenov the Mayor of Silistra from GERB. Those are his words, not mine. 23 Chitalishtes are registered in the municipality of Silistra. Of these 22 community community centers operate according to the Law on People's Chitalishtes. For 2018, there are no funds in the annual programme of the Municipality of Silistra for capital expenditure due to a shortage in the municipal budget. Since the budget for Silistra will be almost the same this year, this shows that the attitude towards both science and culture is the same and is in the direction of genocide. And here I will make the conclusion that I did last time: in the country of Winnetou there is no culture but science. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u982	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Mirchev, I intend to grant your request to punish you. I'm making a note. I find it disrespectful and disrespectful to name the places designated for the members of the government the way you did. Please don't do this again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u983	Thanks for the remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u984	Mr. Kirilov, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u985	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, three-hour procedure and probably three minutes. I reacted sharply to the speech of the previous colleague for the reason that he was clearly aware that the issue of financing the Chitalishtes was not in the provision he commented on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u986	Is this the way it's supposed to be?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u987	It's not about the subject. The President shall have the right to refer the speaker back to the subject. You don't have any suggestions. Your first speaker had an idea about the culture that lost it somewhere and went looking for it. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] Look, this is how we can talk to each other in five hours and three minutes, but let's follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u988	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u989	Let's stick to it strictly. Once again, I say that we strive to be as patient as possible with the opposition and that it has the maximum time to expose its views and opinions, to defend its proposals, but let this be on the subject, and let it be in accordance with the requirements of the Rules. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u990	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Svilenski, in the manner of conduct. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u991	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am taking procedure in the manner of conduct because you allowed Mr. Kirilov at the moment three minutes to explain what was said by colleague Mirchev. My procedure for keeping you is: firstly, I insist that you cancel the punishment of colleague Stoyan Mirchev, because nowhere in the Rules is there a record of insult at the places where the ministers should stand. He has neither offended the ministers nor offended fellow MPs. He called these two positions on the left and on the right. This is what the dictionary of the MPs has been saying not now, but for 27 years. And I don't see what my colleague Mirchev has done to offend anyone in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u992	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u993	Moreover, Mr President, you have allowed the Minister of Finance to stand with his back both to you and to which he presided over the meeting during most of the sitting. With a thousand attempts, you managed to get him into the so-called shen. [[Radio.]] Yet he did not receive punishment, and our colleague punished him with a three-hour and four-minute remark, five minutes now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u994	Mr. Svilensky, I think you're bringing us back to past events. [[Replica by Minister Vladislav Goranov.]] Yes, Mr. Goranov, they are yesterday or today. I really call on us to abandon at least this terminology, which is for other areas of the farm. [[Radio.]] Koshari... Please! Mr. Popov has requested procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u995	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! My procedure is also in the way of conduct and I call on you, when attempts are being made here for censorship during the procedure by Mr. Kirilov, who interprets the speech of colleagues who say what should be said or not said by colleagues from the opposition, please take the attitude to interrupt this attempt for censorship by Mr. Kirilov. He actually proposed an extension of time, he proposed in practice the violation of the procedure that the House voted for, which I was talking about here a few hours ago yesterday, perhaps. So please exercise your powers as Chairman and do not allow here, from this tribune, repeated and misguided Mr. Kirilov to try to impose censorship on MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u996	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Alexandrov and then Mr. Velkov. [[GERB lines.]] In the way I was led, so many MPs turned to me. Thanks for the good advice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u997	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear members of the Council of Ministers! In light of the late hours already, and let's stop fighting this mirror, which is happening because I think tomorrow, if we have the strength to read the transcript, we'd be surprised what we've done and we've talked about here. I suggest that you put the vote to the vote in accordance with art. 17 complete today's plenary session and proceed tomorrow at 10:00 a.m. [[Shouting from GERB.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u998	I must put the procedural proposal to the vote. [[Relations from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov.]] To put to the vote the procedural motion for termination. If we don't call this meeting off, I'll give you the floor. Ladies and gentlemen, take your seats. A vote on the procedural proposal is to be taken after the adoption of art. 17 to terminate the plenary sitting. Vote 188 MPs: for 179, against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please, take your seats so we can continue our work until acceptance of art. 17. Here you are, Mr. Velkov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u999	Good morning, Madame Chairman. [[The President Tsveta Karayancheva heads to the President's seat.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, before Mrs. Karayancheva sits down...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u1000	I'll sit next to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u1001	Sit next to him. Mrs. Karayancheva, at 04.15 am I will sing you the famous song Good morning and goodbye...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u1002	Mr. Velkov, you're getting distracted. It was procedure for me. To you it's a yes. First of all, I would like to congratulate you for noticing the reproaching behaviour of our colleague Mr. Mirchev, who I believe will agree with what I say, and therefore you punished him and, of course, to express discontent that you do not notice the reproaching behaviour of others present in this Chamber when a lady spoke from this stage and a member of the government had turned their backs on it. [[Shouting from GERB.]] Please, it could also be from.Volja, can be from GERB. This is unacceptable, Mr. Chairman. A lady should not be allowed to see a man's buttocks, and they should not be allowed to be seen by a woman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u1003	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. I can tell you that. You failed to notice that Mr. Mirchev asked me to punish him and I did. No other such requests have been received. Mr. Dimitrov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u1004	I'll be restrained, I don't mean to offend anyone, but I don't think we treat the ministers and representatives of the Council of Ministers with due respect. [[Shouting from GERB.]] I'll address you, Mr. Chairman. [[The National Representative shall address the President.]] Anyone who stands on this stand, face or back is to the President of the National Assembly, who is in the Constitution the highest position in Bulgaria, but this does not bother any of you that you are constantly sitting with your back. [[GERB lines.]] And you're worried if someone in the gym accidentally comes from behind?! I would like to ask: any ministers in any cabinet other than these paths, where can they enter? Before November 10th, there were two doors here. Now they're gone. Well, where to go, except through these paths. To ban ministers from traveling this way, to sit face to face with us, and where in the Rules is it forbidden for ministers from any cabinet to talk to MPs? Suddenly, someone was very offended that the minister had entered this path that all the ministers entered and talked with some of the presidents of the parliamentary groups. I think we got carried away with a desire to offend, perhaps, and somewhat humiliate the ministers, and they don't deserve it. We've gone too far to bully them. We owe them gratitude for coming, and we owe them, and I think we owe them an apology for acting like this. And now there might be someone with their backs against me. I can't feel offended. We're not right about this. Think about it one more time, and I don't think we should treat it that way. There will be other ministers here tomorrow. And now I have my back to the President of the National Assembly, which is disrespectful, but if I turn around, I don't think it would be better for you. Let's not overreact. [[Applause and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-29.u1005	We shall vote on the wording of art. 17 as amended by the Commission. They voted 188 MPs: 114, against 74, abstentions. The motion is accepted. I'm adjourning today's meeting due to the exhaustion of the agenda. The next meeting is today, at 10:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
