ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Registration mode, please. Abort registration. Second registration attempt in 15 minutes. Discovered at 9:20 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u2	Hello again, colleagues. [[The National Representatives of the.. Volya.. enter the Chamber with medical masks of the persons.]] And to colleagues with masks, hello, colleagues from Volya. I suppose you'll tell us exactly what this mask symbolizes. Registration regime twice. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include in the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly the following additional item:.Project of a decision to adopt a position of the National Assembly on the draft Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union 1 January. Importers: Christian Vigenin, Ivelina Vasileva, Gemma Grozdanova, Petar Petrov, Ivan Ivanov, Polina Tsankova, Albena Naydenova and Miglena Alexandrova on 21 November 2017, and Draft of a Decision to adopt a position of the National Assembly on the draft of the Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union 1 January I propose that this be the first point in the meeting on Friday, 1 December 2017. As a point of the programme remains the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors. Importers: Margarita Nikolova and a group of MPs on 25 October 2017. This will remain point two for Friday's meeting. Please, voting mode. Vote 194 MPs: for 192, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Messages: On 29 November 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2015 to 25 January 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 January 2020 to 25 January 2020 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). 1 of the National Assembly's Decision of 17 November 2017, adopted in connection with a debate on a question by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on a policy for solving the demographic problems of the country by the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov, received a 2016 Report on the implementation of the updated national strategy for demographic development of the population in the Republic of Bulgaria 2012 - 2030, together with summary information. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about the business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Let's continue with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2018 Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. Excuse me, affidavit. I'll bring you back one more time. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Mareshki, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! [[(Replyes from BSP for Bulgaria]] I'll take a small risk for you to hear. [[Drops the medical mask.]] About ten days ago, a colleague of ours took the liberty of doing two things, absolutely unacceptable, offensive, cynical, namely: to determine 80% of the Bulgarian people as retards. The second thing is to reduce the Bulgarian history by saying that the Bulgarian people, the proud Bulgarian people, and not the poor Bulgarian people have nothing to do with the rescue of the Bulgarian Jews and this is the result of some other historical facts. Here comes the time to tell you why I'm wearing a mask, why we're all wearing masks. I hope Mr. Slavcho Velkov has also understood that he has put it on, now he has taken it off and took the risk of getting infected by this, I hope, temporary derangement. Because while my colleague Ivo Hristov at least gave all of you, your relatives and friends a chance to think that you are of the 20 percent, we came to the point that then my colleague Vejdi Rashidov said that everyone is not fit for cabbage dick. However, the disease does not stop there. Last day in London Mr. Slavi Trifonov said that there was no moral and quality capacity left in Bulgaria. Here you are all in this definition of low quality capacity and low quality capacity. There is no 20% here is Ivo Hristov, he is in this definition. It comes to the ridiculous situation of a person, who Ivo Hristov says is probably in these 20 or 80% retarded or not, Mr. Rashidov tells him that 100% for a cabbage dick is not good, he himself says that there is no moral and quality capacity, goes to London and to the moral and quality Bulgarians who have fled, says to them: "I will become your leader. Can you imagine the disease and why we opposed this thing from the beginning? Because if we'd crossed it, no one else would have dared to do such things. The story repeats itself: during the time of Videnov one-who you are king, then in the time of the king another king, and we say now we will not bother because one king and the other king. Now the same thing is happening to one of the people who insulted the Bulgarian people, but only 80% of them, but we will not bother them because the other one has already offended 100% of the Bulgarian people. I would like to give you an example, ladies and gentlemen: just for a moment imagine that I am going into some deranged state of mind, immediately, I am going into such a thing because I cannot speak such insulting words to the Bulgarian people. By the way, the dignity and honor of the Bulgarian people are protected under the Constitution. And imagine that something is happening to me now, my curtain is falling off and I'm saying that you've all been retarded or everyone who voted for you has been retarded. Do you think you can forgive me for this thing and if you're not gonna carry me around every day in the media? It's the double archin: when someone says something they shouldn't say, but it's not one of the party buddies who shoots people, and when they're party buddies, we can forgive them anything. I therefore refer once again to the morality, to the dignity of all of you, because not only to your own, but to the protection of the morals, dignity and honor of your relatives, friends, sympathizers and voters, let us throw all these things out of our political lives with a joint declaration. To any such person to tell him that his place is not in parliament, to seek retribution for the honour and dignity of Bulgarian citizens, not to let it happen that tomorrow in the media one says: but he said the other, said the same. And that is sufficient reason to have complete irresponsibility both for the robberies over the years and for the immoral, depraved conduct of various self - forgetful people. I hope that indeed all these things are spoken in such a moment of self-forgetting, of mindlessness, and not of mind. Otherwise, I'll have a completely different idea for these people. We, because we have not yet delivered antiviral medicines, will for the time being remain in masks we have ordered them, and I hope that together we will get together and heal those in our view the worst practices in Bulgarian parliamentaryism. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u4	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Come in for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u5	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I strongly object that you are not making a remark and are not taking any measures towards this circus, which is currently being played here. If they want, they can come with hats in another way, but this really lowers the Bulgarian Parliament. I know that you are counting on the budget to vote, that the government has become a crutch, that the government is supporting you in every respect, that one is talking outside, that they are doing radically differently here, and that you have a quorum thanks to the government. But if you continue to tolerate this behavior here in plenary and close your eyes, it clearly shows that your main goal is to really lower the Bulgarian institutions. Please make arrangements for what is happening here! This is unacceptable in a parliamentary republic in a Member State of the European Union! After all, people should have at least simple upbringing and know where they are! It's not their market, it's not their pharmacy! This is the Bulgarian Parliament! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Here's a personal explanation! Before we greet our guests, students from the Industrial Academy, Svishtov. Welcome! [[People's representatives applaud the guests.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u7	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I am taking my right to a personal explanation and I would like [[Speaks in Spanish]] If you can't get through the masks, coworkers, gesture, I understand that language.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u8	Get to the point, Mr. Velkov. Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber. You took the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u9	Let me tell you this with great respect for Mr. Mareshki. This morning it happened that he even did me a favor, which I thanked him for. I really share what you said, and I call everyone here in this room, let us forget once and for all what offends others, which offends culture, religion, the words of others. [[GERB lines.]] Please, mate! Please! Mr. Christov and I talked about this. Enough with the handshake! If you have a gift of speech, come here! Mr. Mareshki, if you can hear me about the double archin. On 13 September, Mr. Mareshki said the following: "The state is governed by the three pigs, the three idiots and the three fools. "
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u10	I'm gonna have to ask you not to refer to them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u11	I quote! [[Radio.]] A little later there was a colleague's side, I won't say the name...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u12	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u13	...a definition that one of the groups is a dynasty influence. Another thing is, I'm not gonna say the name again, and I'm not gonna say the cabbage dick. I'm not saying this about anything else, colleagues, but because I think we really need to forget about this kind of attitude and not measure with double archin, so I'm telling you, if you want, if you take the masks down! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u14	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. And I'll ask my colleagues from Volya to remove the masks. We'll continue our budget, colleagues. [[The National Representative Veselin Mareshki wants the floor.]] Mr. Mareshki, please, let's continue with the budget!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u15	I'll be very brief.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u16	Personal explanation or manner of conduct?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u17	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u18	The way you're holding it, come on in!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u19	Madam President, honourable Members! You've seen what this is about! Eighty percent of the Bulgarian people are retarded. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, you should've interrupted that!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u20	Please, Mr. Velkov spoke in a constructive tone with a call to stop personal attacks so that we can start working calmly today.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u21	I mean Mr. Dragomir Stoinev's statement. You saw about 80% Bulgarian retards not a word! For Veselin Mareshki in a mask to protect herself from this disease and not to start talking such absurdities in the room, action is taken immediately. You see, we were immediately branded! For putting on protective equipment, we are condemned, and for 80% Bulgarian retards raise it to a pedestal. Is that your arsin? [[Heckling]] Is that how you measure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u22	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u23	Thank you, too!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u24	Colleagues, we're moving on to art. 18 of the budget. Mrs. Stoyanova, please report to Art. 18. Wait for Mr. Rashidov there is a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u25	Are they gonna stay in the masks? Are you tolerating this?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u26	I asked them to take them off. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u27	Dear Minister, fellow ministers, dear colleagues! After 20 minutes of speaking yesterday, I dropped a word about which I had the dignity and courage, when a person made a mistake, to turn around and say, "Please forgive me, I have lost myself." I didn't say it right. Mr. Mareshki, you are today a member of parliament, I am a member of parliament, who won elections in four mandates - Forty-first National Assembly, forty-two, forty-three and forty-four. My life at 65 wasn't fiction for two days, and it wasn't like one person or another. I make mistakes, but I find both dignity and courage to apologize. It happened. I didn't mean it, you know that. Seven years I have been a Bulgarian minister and I have done many things not for myself, but for the Bulgarian culture of theaters, through archaeology, through schools, through Largoto, through museums. Sorry, I got up this time to say: you must love the Bulgarian people only for the phrase I missed. Before this you have obviously not heard that the phrase was a reason to talk that the Bulgarian state is adopting today the budget of Bulgaria.. the most important Law; that we are giving billions of levities for the education of the Bulgarian people; that we are preparing wonderful children with education, we are investing a lot of money in them by the Bulgarian taxpayer, and these children are going to work abroad, which is worrying. This also concerns the demographic problem, and they are paying the taxes prepared, invested, studied, to another country. Didn't you hear that on TV? You didn't hear him. Every day Bulgarian wonderful doctors leave Bulgaria and go to Germany. Didn't you hear that, Mr. Mareshki? You heard him. You don't care about my resignation. I'm asking you as Minister... It is easy to love the Bulgarian people from private aircraft, hard to work for the Bulgarian people and is created. I got up to ask my colleagues... I dropped the wrong word. I have infinite respect for a lot of people, and that's why I'm here. There are decent people from all parliamentary groups. I apologize if I've grieved anyone. Please forgive me. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Moving on, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u29	Under art. 18 by importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 18, para. 1, t. 2.2, increase the amount by 76 900,0 BGN The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments shall be made: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line II. The cost of the number - on line one. Operating costs the number "s47 340,1' is replaced by "s57 340,1'. - in row 1.1. The number of staff is '29 009,3' is replaced by '30 014,1'. (b) in Section III, Budgetary Relations (transfers): - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..63 - in row 2. Budgetary relations with other budgetary organisations the number..-69 - in line 2.2. Transfers provided the number - in line 2.2.1. - for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the number supposed to be in line with the requirements set out in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 2. in para. 2: - create a new row 3: "3." Natural Disaster Prevention Policy 10 000,0." - The current row 3 becomes row 4. - on the line All the number..49 858.1. is replaced by.59 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer under art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u30	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Kostadinov is after Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u31	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I made a proposal in the column on the environmental management company to be increased as reported by the President of the Budget Committee, by about 76 million, to draw your attention to a problem, to a policy for which there is no funding in the budget for the settlements to 3,000 inhabitants, where there is a Programme and an indwelling. I would like to draw your attention to the Minister of Environment and the Minister of Regional Development. Dear colleagues, these water pipes in these settlements have etherite tubes. There is a European directive that says that, in the sense of limitation, this means that these people in these small towns drink water that is of questionable quality. And because we have left the opportunity to finance the large water projects and we are passionate about the big cities, the Operational Programme "Environment" and because there is no targeted impact through the budget to certain sectoral policies, I want to draw attention to you that such a resource is needed in the country. Companies, water associations and operators must accordingly allocate to several municipalities the little money that is for profit. They're just enough to maintain the technical infrastructure. I know you probably won't support this issue. But since there are ministers in whose sectors these sectors are, and you are the group responsible for the country's development, I want to draw your attention to this topic At the Forum of Bulgarian Municipalities, the Deputy Minister of Regional Development said: "We are preparing a fund with which the small municipalities will find a financial resource of up to 10 thousand, in which to invest to replace the technical infrastructure in the water. I mean, there was a fairplay message, a free message to the municipalities, there's gonna be something about ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha-ha! Therefore, with the clear awareness that such a policy is necessary, I appeal to you to support it. But seeing that for monasteries, for the crypt you resist for a million, think about it. I hope it's time to find a financial resource. This is an important issue and an important problem. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u32	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Replies to Mrs. Yankova's statement? Mr. Kostadinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u33	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I wanted to address my colleagues from Volja. I wanted to congratulate them, as they say: Happy Halloween, but they came out. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me before I am motivated by why we are making these proposals in the budget to introduce you to several challenges that stand before us and to resolve which would lead us to a more adequate decision on the budget. The first challenge at this stage has been dismissed. It was in secret, as it was last night, to discuss important matters for the state budget. I'm glad that didn't happen with the environmental budget. The second challenge is this: colleagues, we from the opposition are in a very strange and delicate situation. In committee discussions we see the sincere look of your ministers through the opposition to increase the budget for the respective ministry in some way. We see him sincerely, we understand them, because whoever was in this place would have done the same thing. At the same time, they respect very serious financial discipline and do not violate the budget framework. I asked Minister Dimov in committee a very frank question: That's a pretty disciplined answer from him. I'll prove to you why we don't think that can happen. The third challenge is this. I'm sorry Mr. Donchev isn't here, he'll support me. The definition of European funds, colleagues, is that they complement national efforts. We have fallen too much on the wings of the European funds, and we have forgotten one of the main definitions in the financial regulation that European funds are not basic as we are in Bulgaria, unfortunately, but complementary national efforts. Therefore, each budget must not only provide national co-financing but show the efforts of the national budget on these sectoral policies that we are discussing. This is the third major challenge. Bulgaria hasn't done this for years. We have taken on the fact that there are some funds, by the way, as I recall, so far, the percentage of absorption is between 4% and 5% The fourth challenge is that we confuse the concepts and this affects the budget. Bulgaria continues not to distinguish the reform in the water sector that the Commission wants from the water reform. The European Commission wants us to reform the water sector. Bulgaria shows an action plan for reform of the water sector. The water sector works with 7-8% of the total water flow across the country, so it is part of it, but it is not the whole reform. In essence.................................................................................. 18, p. 2.1 for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Note that the proposal, which is from 2.5 million to 5 million, concerns the following: except for the National Institute of Meteorology and Hydrology of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, except for the Oceanographic Institute, I believe that there is not a single line for IBEI the Institute for Biological Diversity and Ecosystem Research. Bulgaria has extremely big problems in terms of defining the natural zones. The state does not allocate enough funds. I believe there's one in the Ops program. That is why I think you will adequately appreciate this proposal. Next, in art. A new item is created. This is our proposal: "Policy in the field of prevention of natural disasters" with a budget of 10 million. BGN, such as p. 3 becomes t. 4 The budget program administration, and from 49 becomes 59 totals. In connection with the disasters that were, I think it is unnecessary to motivate this proposal of ours. In conclusion, I would ask Dora Yankova to make an editorial amendment. I would like your proposal to be oriented between 2-10 thousand equivalents of residents, because the so-called water reform (water reform) has abandoned 70% of the Bulgarian municipalities without the possibility of investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u34	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Editorial amendment to ten thousand. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u35	My line is addressed to Mr. Kostadinov, who, as you hear it, speaks very strongly. Ask him what he has graduated from, what he has specialty. Because once he asked me on one of the committees what I specialize in. To say, when he was Deputy Minister, what measures did he take in the field...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u36	That's not a line!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u37	Come on, what's not a line? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I do not agree with the fact that he criticises the current budget in his part of environmental protection and does not say what he has done: I have done this, this and this I now want to build on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. A line? Mr. Ivanov, do you have a line or do you have a statement? Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers! In order not to violate the regulation of the National Assembly, I will respond only to the real, true replica of the respected colleague, i.e. the second question. I do not think that we are criticising the state budget, but I am sincerely confident that what we are proposing will be good for both sectoral policies and for the work of Minister Dimov and for the work of this sector as a whole, especially during the Presidency. So I would urge you to look into the content of our proposal, especially the 10 million for the prevention of natural disasters and the 2.5 million part for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. I think that's pretty meaningful. With regard to the second part of your line, I suggest that we do not bother our colleagues, but measure our education from the outside. I will take my two suitcases, take your one folder and compare them. [[Sighs: "Eee! "]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Mr. Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! First, I would like to say a few words on the suggestions of my fellow Members. What colleague Dora Yankova offers is extremely correct, this thing is necessary. The point is that this macrogram you have provided us with approximately 2 billion costs without specifying where the revenue will come from is difficult to achieve. I believe that the ministers here are responsible enough for both the colleague Neno Dimov and the regional minister Nikolay Nankov. The two of them are to be extremely responsible for the next year, as far as I know, the PPOOS has more than 30 million allocated to water alone. Apart from the program, which belongs to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, there were 12 or more million of them. [[Replicate from Minister Nikolai Nankov.]] $18 million. Thanks for the adjustment. We really need to work in this sector. We will also expect you to support us, however, in a more serious and stable opposition we have serious and stable governance. However, I do not agree with your second part. I will call Mr. Kostadinov, as well as Mr. Krum Zarkov, as part of the importers, to look at row 2, item 2. 2.1. of the proposal, where is the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and to read very carefully what is written in the budget. In the budget it says: The Ministry provides transfers to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences amounting to 2.5 million. With the correction you have made, instead of the minus, which is in front of the figure, you have put a sign on the sign of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, this really means that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, except that it has to deprive itself of the 2.5 million that the Ministry gives it, must pay back 5 million to the Ministry. So instead of increasing the BAN budget, you're offering to cut it by 7.5 million. We can't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u42	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u43	Thank you. Colleague, there's obviously been some kind of mistake. I'm reading a version of our proposal with minus.. we confirm that. Maybe we should clarify this editorialally, but we're keeping up with our proposal. If there's been an error with the plus, please excuse us. We demand an additional transfer to this line that is made, again with a minus sign. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Second line? Mr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u45	Dear Madam President, dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I see your empathy for our proposals, but if you think that with 30 million can be done something general in the water sector, you are very mistaken. I've been listening lately to 10 pennies to the accounts of every cubic we're gonna distribute to people. Well, 99 liters is the consumption in Bulgaria. In one year this will give 21 million. Mr. Nankov, how many billion did we need? Eight? [[Replicate from Minister Nikolai Nankov.]] 12 we have there from the operational programs. C'mon divide these billions by 21 million. 385 years should be invested in the water sector at this rate that is currently available with these funds. The one 18 and the other 30. So do the math well. There's no plumbing structure with 400 years of depreciation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Is there gonna be a third line? Mr. Alexandrov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u47	Thank you, Madam President. To the colleagues who made the remarks, perhaps to Mr. Kostadinov, what we have discussed with him right now is that the proposal that I am looking at in the report that we have from the Budget Committee is actually nonsense because it means that BSP is offering 7,5 million. What Mr. Kostadinov showed me is a completely different number and it sits differently. What I will answer to you in the sector "Waters", as far as I am aware, there are several programs that function...........................................................in the field.................................................................................................................................................................................... As you can see, we're definitely working on it. I'd say you're rather offering things that we're already going to do. I'm glad you find them and support them. I would ask you to continue in the same spirit because, as I said in the first part of my speech, a strong opposition is a guarantee of strong governance, as the whole society expects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u48	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, Madam Minister, honourable colleagues! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 I will focus on staff costs for the Ministry of Environment and Water. In a percentage dimension, the increase is 8.7%, which is equal to 2 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. Money that is extremely insufficient for the remuneration of employees in the Ministry of Environment and Water. Two weeks ago in the Environment and Water Committee, we had a meeting with the Executive Director of the Executive Environment Agency and there it was stated that salaries were extremely low, especially in territorial units. With the increase of the minimum wage from 460 to 510 BGN. Turns out that's $2 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. They'll cover the difference. That means we won't have a salary increase again. At the same time, specialists working there, proven experts at this meeting were said to leave and go to the private sector. The colleague Kostadinov spoke before me about policies and sectoral policies. In the budget, the funds are extremely insufficient in terms of the priority placed in the Government's Management Programme, respectively of the Ministry of Environment and Water, for the period 2018 - 2020 environmental policies, activities to combat climate problems, with emphasis on improving the quality of the atmospheric air in the settlements, extending the complex of measures to protect the clean air. Colleagues, we know that Bulgaria is in one of the first places on contaminated air and the funds that are laid down in the budget are extremely insufficient. This is one of the reasons why we are voting against it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u50	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u51	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will deal with another environmental problem with the large number of unregulated landfills in the country. The signals of interested citizens alarming newly formed unregulated landfills in the territory of their settlements are several times. This question, of course, is being asked in our reception days. Their numbers across the country are extremely high. For this purpose, unregulated landfills must be reclaimed, and these obligations are replaced by municipalities. The proposed State Budget Bill does not provide sufficient funds to carry out a recalculation of the unregulated landfills. As a problem, we need to mention that the state has been subject to criminal proceedings and the relevant provisions have been made for this. Fortunately, at the moment, we have no financial sanctions. Our proposed State Budget Bill should include additional funds to stimulate the Bulgarian municipalities in this respect, as there are no funds in their financial capacity to overcome these shortcomings. It is practical for municipalities to delegate obligations without providing financial resources to remedy and overcome the problem concerned. The funds in the PPOA are regulated by the regulatory base, but can be increased by initiative of the executive, of course. We believe that in the proposed Bill the funds under this measure are insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u52	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? There are no requests. We're going to vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Dora Yankova, not supported by the Commission. Vote 156 MPs: 48 against 71, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 52, against 92, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's text for art. 18. Vote 165 MPs: 117, against 43, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u53	Dear Madam Chairman, in art. Art. 19 and art. 20 no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 19 and art. 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u54	Are there any statements under art. Art. 19 and art. 20? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u55	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to draw attention to the draft budget of the Ministry of Economy under art. 20 of the Draft Budget Act 2018. I will draw attention to something that made a good impression that the funds that are allocated to the promotion of investments in Bulgaria this year are more than five million compared to 2017. At first glance, from what we are presented in the draft budget of the Ministry of Economy, measures are being taken to promote investment, traditional certification, marketing measures are being offered again, defining priority sectors and so on. Unfortunately, however, from what the results show about the level of foreign direct investment in the country, it is clear that these measures are extremely insufficient and significant changes are needed. I already had the opportunity a few days ago from this tribune to pay attention to the place that our country occupies in one of the prestigious rankings that show how attractive our economy is to foreign investors the rankings of Dwing business, where we have collapsed to 50th place from 190 countries. However, the measures we need to take to be more attractive certainly do not correspond to what is being done in the Ministry of Economy and Policy, which it offers us to promote investment. If we look at some of the shortcomings that are mentioned in this ranking, it will become clear that we are critical of such indicators as joining the power grid, where we are in 141 place, I say again, from 190 countries, and here we are in the company of Togo, Palau and Mongolia. Similar is the situation with the registration of companies in Bulgaria. 95 place in this ranking and the payment of taxes, which turns out that it is not an easy process in Bulgaria. I will also draw attention to what happens to investments from third countries. A few days ago, there was a certain euphoria about a meeting in Budapest in China with the 16th-country group, plus China.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u56	[[GERB, from place]] Get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u57	In essence, I am talking about the measures to be taken and the funds to be allocated. There we want the construction of the highway of Hemus. The Black Sea and the railway line of Ruse Varna. All these projects sound really good to me, and they would be great if they did, but unfortunately no one does anything about them. At the same time, we can see how they attract investments from neighbouring countries, including China, pay attention to investments in the Czech Republic, Serbia, Poland. So think about the measures to be taken and the effect of spending money that we are offered in Budget 2018. About a year ago, the then Economy Minister pointed out that he wanted to make a structural change in the Ministry by uniting the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises and the Investment Agency and turning them into an Agency for Economic Growth. I doubt that only such structural reform would have led to an improvement in attracting investment in the country, but it was certainly a sign that it understood the need to change the sector. Now we are offered just pouring more money without looking for any effect of this. So in this budget of the Ministry of Economy, I see no difference with the 2017 budget. For me, it is made on the principle of the more, the more and the results of spending government money are definitely postponed. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u58	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? There are no requests. We shall proceed to a vote on art. 19 and 20, as proposed by the Commission report. Vote 151 MPs: 99, against 51, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u59	Under art. 21 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line II. The cost of the number? 19 098.0? is replaced by? 55 098.0? - on line one. Current expenditures the number s17 778,0s is replaced by s53 778,0s. (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in row III, budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number s. 9 343,8' is replaced by.45 343,8. 2. in para. 2: - on line one. Policy on the sustainable development of tourism the number..16 707.1...... 17 - a new line is created: "2." Tourist season extension policy 35 000,0. - The current row 2 becomes row 3. - on the line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u60	I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Ministers! Unfortunately, the deputy prime minister and minister are gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u62	[[GERB, from place]] He's here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u63	Is Mr. Simeonov here? Okay, I'm glad. Undoubtedly, in recent years, tourism has become an increasingly significant sector in the Bulgarian economy. Therefore, the MPs from our parliamentary group have taken the liberty of making several proposals, and they are an expression of our understanding and a proposal for a comprehensive strategy for the development of tourism that our country needs. What have we suggested in the proposals we have just read? We want to develop a new programme of 15 million. BGN to be used outside the active season when every tourist in the Republic of Bulgaria, who is here for more than four nights, is provided with a voucher of 50 BGN. A voucher that can be used for excursions, for visits to historical and cultural events in our country. With this programme, we want to extend the tourist season and allow visitors in our country to get to know our beautiful homeland as much as possible. We also have a very clear focus on spa tourism. We are blessed with the presence of numerous mineral and thermal springs in our country. There is no doubt that this is the part of tourism that has enormous potential, and we have a comprehensive programme to finance these over 100 regions, 100 municipalities that have such types of mineral and thermal springs. It is within the range of 15 million and concerns projects for bringing and enriching the entire infrastructure for the development of these SPA destinations in one of the best ways. We have also provided 20 million for a national programme to promote the development of sports tourism in the country. Our country provides unique opportunities for sport and preparation both through the federations and through the Bulgarian municipalities. We want there to be such a fund at the Ministry of Tourism, which will also promote the development of sports tourism in the country. Of course, in order to be successful in all this, more means are also needed for an informational, communication campaign presenting our country abroad in a good way. That is why we have also foreseen an increase in funds for this too. I would very much like to hear the opinion of the ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers on these proposals of ours. Do they not think that they are suitable, do they not think that they deserve support because every lev invested in Bulgarian tourism will bring many more benefits to our country? In particular to Valeri Simeonov, I have a few questions: except for the first one, about whether he supports all these measures to promote tourism, which BSP offers, Mr. Simeonov, said that in Bulgarian tourism there are 4-5 billion lost, as a reminder there were such statements that 4-5 billion are hiding. Here's the finance minister. I would very much like to hear how and how these funds will be made efforts to be covered in Budget 2018? Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov said that state-owned companies in tourism, while referring to a state-owned company in Sunny Beach, is a black hole. So I would like, in the context of a continuous search for revenue for everything, for the many costs we need to make in the country, to see what the efforts are to raise this money. Finally, Mr. Simeonov, I think that everything we offer is worth supporting the voucher program for the extension of the tourist season, and our spa program for promoting this tourism in the country, and the development of sports tourism, and we have made these proposals. Think of it as an extended hand to the sector on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u64	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Come in for a speech, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u65	Madam President, thank you. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to express my regret that the minister in charge is not in the Chamber and is very arrogant.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u66	She's a birthday girl today.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u67	She should be safe then, but that doesn't excuse her, she's still at work. If you don't understand, the Minister of Finance said the Minister of Tourism is a birthday girl today. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u68	Continue with your speech, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u69	Since colleague Boychev referred to what we are proposing from the opposition, and we know that you from the ruling majority will say: "Where money from?" I will tell you, I will give you an example of where money can be found. By carefully examining the budget in its revenue section of the Ministry of Tourism, as in other budgets of the portfolio ministries, that in the revenue section the budget is highly underestimated. I'll give you two examples like this. In his media appearances, the Minister of Tourism says that concessions for this year the state's revenues are expected to exceed 20 million. lv. At the same time, the three-year forecast for each of the next three years offers less than 5 million, as revenues from concessions on sea beaches. According to my calculations, after the redistribution between different municipalities and district managers, the funds that must remain with the Ministry of Tourism, if it is indeed true that concession fees should exceed 20 million, are around 8-9 million, which is a difference of approximately 4-5 million. Another feather, which is underestimated, is the pen with the fines. By the way, I do not know how to plan and calculate revenue from fines, but I will give you an example of what the proposal from the Ministry of Tourism is. For the next three years, they estimate 320 million. lv. from fines. For this year alone, the noisy stocks held on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast have brought over 450 million to the treasury of fines. This is based on information on a question I have asked to the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection. The reduction in the predictions of these fines, given that the Ministry of Tourism has an idea to create a special unit that controls tourism and at the same time predicts much smaller revenues from fines, in my opinion, loses the meaning of creating such a unit. This is the second example I am giving you, where the money can come from, so really to invest more in tourism because, as my colleague Boychev said, it is a priority for Bulgaria industry and can carry much more money in the treasury and stimulate the development of the local small and medium-sized business. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u70	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no requests. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Announce the result. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u71	There's a problem with the consoles.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u72	We've been voting for over a minute. [[Noise and lines.]] All right, vote on it. How many people failed to vote? [[Noise and lines.]] Look at the problem with Mr. Georgi Markov. [[(Reply from GERB: The problem is throughout the block.]] There's still a technical problem. Abort the vote. Vote 128 MPs: 37 against 66, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Most likely a re-vote will be requested. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u73	Thank you, Madam President. There's actually a problem with the consoles. Many of the colleagues have indeed failed to vote. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u74	We are revising Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 150 MPs: 45 against 79, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal for art. 21, supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 98 against 44 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u75	Proposal of the MPs Petar Kanev, Nikolay Tishev, Todor Baychev, Dimitar Stoyanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2, the table, row 2 For an increase the budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency for major renovation and rehabilitation of the Republican road Malko Tarnovo, Tsarevo. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II. ????????????????????????????????????????????????? - in row II, the number - in row 2. "Capital expenditures" (the number.147,419.9) is replaced by.177 419,9 (the number is replaced by. (b) in Section III. "BOUJET REPRESENTATIONS" (Transfers) - in line S. The number of "45 791,9" is replaced by "75 791,9." - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget the number..62 2. in para. 2: - in row 2. "Politicals for maintenance, modernisation and construction of technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility and integrated management of water resources and geodeficit. - in line "Everything's going to be replaced by "418 365,0' is replaced by "448 365,0'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u76	My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Nankov! The proposal made by the four MPs from the Second Multiannual Election District Burgas is for the famous road Malko Tarnovo "Tsarevo." You know that for this time every year there are promises of funds, and ultimately there are no actions. Keep in mind that for more than ten years the road has been in bad shape. The last six or seven years he has been in an extremely desperate state, and after the heavy rains that took place September this year, there is virtually no road. Yes, because he was taken to the village of Gramatikovo. The road is only 56 km, but it takes more than an hour and a half to two by car, because if you move faster, or your car will stay in a hole, or your front will just leave. All parties during election campaigns, here are colleagues from GERB will confirm it, bet in their regional programs road repair. After all, after the parliamentary elections have passed, this topic is buried, and this is neither a party nor a political topic. The government is talking about priorities for support and development of the Northwest and Strandzha-Sakar. Well, let's unite around this noble subject and help Strandja. The road Malko Tarnovo "Tsarevo" can help to solve one of the main problems in Strandzha. After unemployment and after lack of perspective, this is the main problem for the people of Strandja. If it is repaired with the 12 million we propose to increase the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency, for example, the guests of Malko Tarnovo and Strandzha in 35 40 minutes will reach the Southern Black Sea coast in the Tsarevo region and this will certainly improve the economic situation in the region. As I told you, this proposal has neither political nor party hue, the people - the inhabitants of Malko Tarnovo and Gramatikovo, went out to protest no matter what political bias there is. We should note that if, for example, every year in the budget of the MRB or respectively of the Agency were bet on 1.5 million, we would not be talking about this problem now, but we would be congratulating ourselves on something that is actually done for the region. I will finish with this, I invite you all to unite around this cause, because we will not do this, this time we will not repair it for the mayor of Malko Tarnovo or for the mayor of Tsarevo, we will do this for the people who live in Strandzha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u78	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Other statements have been made. Come in for a statement, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u79	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! The National Strategy for Regional Development defines the following vision for the development of the regions in Bulgaria for the period 2012 - 2022, namely: Bulgarian districts - attractive for living, effectively using their potential to achieve sustainable growth, create new jobs, business and tourism, with preserved natural and cultural heritage. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works report on the state and diversity in the development of the various regions in the country gives extreme attention to the targeted investment programme for development of the North-West, Rhodopes, mountain and semi-mountain regions, Strandzha-Sakar, border and border regions. It was developed for the period 2017-2025 The financial framework for funding from the national budget amounts to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes However, for the implementation of this Programme and the measures imposed for 2017 in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works money was not provided, but provided for 193 million. lv. A draft proposal on this Programme for National Financing and 2018 in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is also not available. We all understand that these measures are extremely important for overcoming the demographic crisis, the migration processes leading to depopulation of small settlements in the country's regions. The report on the state and development of the individual regions states that a policy is needed to keep people in places where they live by improving regional connectivity and accessibility, improving the quality of the environment in settlements, as well as stimulating job creation. I say this because during parliamentary control in recent months one of the most constant questions that have been asked was about the condition of the third-class road network that connects these settlements with the municipal centers and other roads from the fourth-class road network. There is no clarity in the budget to resolve these issues. Yes, the minister said that with the introduction of the TOL-taxes the realization of these issues will begin to take place more markedly in 2019. We postpone, postpone the resolution of these issues and through the targeted investment programme for these backward areas. I believe that this is not state-owned. In October, the Deputy Minister of Regional Development Denitsa Nikolova said: "The balanced development of the regions and the promotion of cooperation based on partnerships will be priorities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works during the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union. Our aim is to ensure policies and funding not only for large cities, but also for smaller regions and settlements, to stop their depopulation and negative economic trends in order to develop rather than to west. The other issue I would like to address is some problems in the water sector. I quote the other Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Malina Krumova. In July, she informed the section of Hydrotechnical Construction, Water Networks and Facilities to the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria that a mechanism for financing treatment plants in settlements with an equivalent population of between 2000 and 10,000 people is being developed. They do not have European funds under the operational programmes for renovation of the water network and treatment facilities because they do not meet the requirements. We plan to create a fund to finance activities to achieve water quality measures in smaller settlements. The idea is to cover settlements that are not eligible beneficiaries of European funds. Reading this statement, I was very hopeful because in small municipalities in Haskovo region, which are along the Maritsa river, have a big problem with the presence of manganese in drinking water. In the budget, however, I do not see the means to realise this intention. In recent years, many sports facilities, stadiums, fields that are currently not enjoyed by anyone were built in many villages and small settlements. Is it too late to start implementing these events? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u80	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no lines. Here's your next speech, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u81	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! In connection with the development of the National Program for Prevention and Restriction of Landings in the country for the period 2015 - 2020, an analysis of their spread in the country was carried out. They are categorized into four groups depending on activity and risk level. The calculations made show that by the end of 2020 funds are needed to strengthen approximately 800 million. BGN, as 500 million. lv. They're for the most pressing. According to information from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the registered landslides in Bulgaria are over 2 thousand, 60% of them are in settlements. The remaining nearly 40% can be risky and are located mainly in agricultural land and forest areas. The proposals made by the BSP for Bulgaria are motivated by the many problems in the sector and the lack of sufficient resource security to overcome them. The problem with landslides, erosion and abrasives in the territory of the country is within the scope of four laws, two regulations, eleven regulations, one instruction and one convention. It is obvious the shortage of financial resources for the geodefenses located in Pernik, Varna and Pleven, which are three in number for the whole country. The municipalities have neither financial resources nor administrative capacity to prevent and strengthen landslides. The problems are deepening due to insufficient financial resources. It is for this reason that we appeal to the MPs to support our proposal to increase the amount in the sector as a step towards a more recent resolution of at least some of the accumulated problems, otherwise we risk giving money to recover damage from untimely prevention, for which, in the current budget presented by the government, there is no money and policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u82	Thank you. This was the speech of the MP Lyubomir Bonev. Are there any lines? There's no need for a line. Next statement is requested from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u83	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Members! I think we have come to one of the most important points, namely the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. Why am I saying this? Because in general, the title of the Ministry also contains its function, which it must perform in front of our society. In general, the proposed budget of the State of the Ministry of Finance lacks specific commitments that both Bulgarian municipalities and the state as a whole need in terms of its infrastructure. We with the proposal we made in art. 2, para. 2 We largely meet the needs and requirements that this Ministry should perform as a function in order for the infrastructure to be able both road and water and critical, to be constantly monitored and to make the necessary investments. I'm glad the Minister is here today. He was happy now, and last night he was with us, and Mr. Donchev is here because a group of questions are being formed, which unfortunately, in the main budget, we do not find an answer. The proposal, which we are making, largely contains these answers because just to remind you that only here a month ago began signing contracts with beneficiaries under the Operational Programme Just to remind you that in most of this street network there is also the relevant infrastructure that waters the population. Unfortunately, these tens and hundreds of Bulgarian mayors, who have signed or are about to sign a contract with the Fund of Agriculture, do not have the means to fulfill this commitment and replace their plumbing. We have not accidentally laid down in row 2 a policy to maintain, modernise and build the technical infrastructure related to improved transport, accessibility, integrated management of water resources, geodefense and to increase the budget of the Ministry by 170 million. BGN because, honourable Members, this must be an accessible source of funding for precisely such projects, which are funded by the European Union. Here is also Mr. Donchev and I hope that he will take part in this topic because the emphasis on the so-called instruments, which I think the municipalities do not have access to, or the tough negotiations with the VIAL Fund, to a large extent discourage the municipalities even if they apply. It is here that the state should take on its role and be a worthy partner of the Bulgarian municipalities and help when they are unable to cover much of their costs. I am here to avoid affecting the subject on which I had opened yesterday for the vague programme of the Council of Ministers for funding targeted at certain municipalities, but today in this regard we are giving the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works a real chance with a similar programme, with similar means to open a truly accessible programme for financing of municipalities that need such funding. I hope that our arguments here will be accepted as well as by the Minister, unfortunately, I do not see the Minister of Finance who should actually approve these costs and say his opinion on this subject, but if it is not accepted, unfortunately, once again we will find ourselves in the situation where Bulgarian municipalities are lined up in line as, with excuses, beggars and looking where to find funds to cover these costs which are related to urgent needs and unfortunately put into question in not a few cases the implementation of the projects which are related to European funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting on the proposal of MP Petar Kanev and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 50, against 53, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 40, against 81, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We shall proceed to a vote on the text of art. 22 on a proposal from the Commission, reflected in the report. They voted 144 MPs: 102, against 40, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Continue with art. 23, please... [[Noise and lines.]] First of all, come in for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u85	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against art. 22 of the State Budget Bill, which concerns regional development. Despite the thunderous promises of the government, election promises that they will pay attention to the backward areas, there is no financial support in this regard, and I therefore voted against. Because without financial support, all good intentions cannot be realized.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u86	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Come in for a second negative vote, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u87	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I voted against it for the same reason. After years of preparation, planning, real commitment of all local regional authorities and hope that the backward regions will finally receive genuine support through the state budget with the relevant financial instruments developed in the targeted investment programme, and after, Mr. Minister, the entire Regional Policy Commission, in the context of the intermediate information presented by you on the state of this targeted investment programme, has supported you in your efforts in the 2018 Draft Budget to launch a real financing at least of measures relating to investment in human capital, in the end the proposal of the importer in the 2018 Budget Project, in the part of the Ministry of Regional Development, there is no memory of a desire or commitment to policy towards the backward regions. This already clearly shows that the real commitment of this government, especially to the Northwest, there are no people from this worst socio-economic region, indeed, no longer have any hope, and they will hardly believe you from now on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u88	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u89	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I also voted against the draft of the Ministry of Regional Development for several reasons. I would like to remind you that there are two very important principles in the European Union other than solidarity. That's convergence, that's cohesion. We have been talking about Europe of the Regions for a long time now. But what happens in Bulgaria? Although in most of the European Union the frontier territories are the most densely populated, well developed, with some good economic links between the different regions, between one side and the other of the border, we see in Bulgaria the very opposite of the least developed territories are exactly the frontiers, including the semi-mountains, which are also subject to regional development. Moreover, we do not see any policy that the Ministry offers through the budgetary instrument. Because we see that this disturbed polycentric structure of the settlements continues to be stimulated whether intentionally or unintentionally by the Ministry. This speaks not only of an ineffective regional policy but of the absence of any regional development policy. And I would like to remind you that at the heart of regional policy is support for small, medium-sized municipalities and harmonious development of territories, reducing disproportions. When are we gonna do this thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u91	Under art. 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev: in art. 23, para. 1, Section II. Cost of row 1.1. The number of the person who is a member of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is 1. In para 1, Section II. The following changes shall be made: - in row 1.1., the number - in row 1.2. and row 1.2.1., the number - in Section III. In line 1, the number "sixty-four, eighty-six-one' is replaced by "six-five-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. 2. In para. 4 the following changes are made: the number 3. In para. 5 the following changes are made: the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section I. Revenues, benefits and donations: - of row I. Revenues, aids and donations the number - on line one. Non-taxable income the number - in row 1.2. Revenue and income from ownership the number - in row 1.3. Fines, penalties and penalty interest rates the number (b) in Section II. Costs: - in line II. The cost of the number "210088,1' is replaced by "270088,1'; - on line one. Operating costs the number s. s.202 331,1 s. is replaced by s. 259 831,1s. - in row 1.1. Staff number "sixteen-five-nine-zero-zero' is replaced by - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (c) in Section III. Budgetary relations (Transfers): - in Row III. Budgetary relationships (Transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..64 2. In para. 2: - on line one. Agriculture and rural policy, the number - a new order is created 4: "4." Policy "Agrarian Science and Knowledge Transfer " 77 000,0 "; - the current row 4 becomes row 5; - on the line All the number 3.Create para. 6: supplied funds of 77 000 thousand. lv. in a new policy, the Agrarian Science and Knowledge Transfer (Agrarian Science) to secure the activities of the Agricultural Academy, as follows: 2 500 thousand. lv. for capital expenditure, 22 500 thousand. lv. for salaries and 35,000. lv. for research in the field of innovative agriculture. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u92	Thank you. Before I open the debates, I would like to announce that there are women from Kardzhali on the balcony of the National Assembly. Please welcome them! [[Applause.]] Are there any speeches? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u93	Madam President, honourable Members! We did not support the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The reasons are as follows. First, the actual budget framework shows that for 2018, the increase in the Ministry's budget is 4 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Of that 4 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Two and a half million go to cover the increase of the minimum wage by 50 BGN. and 1% increase in the pension contribution. In practice, this means that about 2,000 people, of which 1300 at the Agricultural Academy and 700 at the Executive Agency will receive an increase in their salaries thanks precisely to the increase in the minimum wage. All the other secondary officers in the Ministry of Agriculture about 7,000 people who work will not have such an opportunity, although the budget and the Fund of the Ministry's Work salary has not been increased for 10 years. Funds are provided for an increase of two million to the "Irrigation systems" to carry out the public service to protect the harmful effects of water and perhaps this is the only positive change in the budget that can be admired. It is a fact that in recent years there have been extremely many problems which What we offer is connected in two directions. The first is related to offering an increase in the expenditure ceiling of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food at the expense of increasing its own revenues. There is potential for an increase in own income and we have found it in the following guidelines. The first direction is related to the implementation of the laws adopted in the previous National Assembly. You remember the disputes and, on our part, the objections to increasing sanctions and fines, which would therefore lead to an increase in the incomes of the Ministry of Agriculture. In addition, many of the control functions that the Ministry performs and therefore bring revenue must also be financially secured. I give an example about a year ago a Swiss Project was completed to build a genetic resources lab. This laboratory also performs a number of control functions and also assists the State Fund in carrying out its activities. But this laboratory, respectively, assisted by the state and the Swiss government, is not working at this stage because it has no supplies. What do we do from now on? Not only the laboratory, which I refer to as an example, is important, but also many of the laboratories of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are in a similar situation, so it is paid to external and private laboratories at much higher values. The second proposal, which I would like to draw attention to, which I think there is no problem in adopting in the budget, as we propose, without changing the budget framework, is to transfer 10 million. lv. from the maintenance of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in salaries for staff. Why? First I start with the Agricultural Academy, as I already said 1,300 people from 1900 are on minimum wage. The relationship between employed in science and the lowest levels related to the service staff is generally within 70 80 BGN and the pay has not been adjusted since 2008. The executive agency for combating hails also has many problems. The Ministry of Agriculture signed an agreement in July this year, which is committed to looking for opportunities to raise salaries at the Agency because 700 people are also on minimum wage. We believe that, in this way, an intra-compensatory transfer of funds will be able to provide a fair payment for these two structures. I do not want to miss the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, where also the payment against the background of the responsibilities to be fulfilled is far from necessary. Literally yesterday a draft amendment of the Agricultural Academy Act was published. In most cases, the governors say: "Yes, we will increase the funds for one or another structure, but if there is a reform." There is a reform in the structure and management of the Agricultural Academy, which we will support when considering in Parliament. There are no proposals for the Executive Agency for the Fight against hails. From now on, this structure cannot perform its functions with the payment that is determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u94	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Rumen Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! In the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the increase in wage budget compared to last year is with the modest 2.2%. Only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has a worse budget in terms of salaries. That's two and a half million... extremely insufficient! We have to say that for 43 minor authorising officers for a consecutive year there will be no increase in wages, and they work on a minimum wage of 460 BGN, extremely demotivated, and with the increase of the minimum wage of 460 BGN. BGN 510. From 1 January 2018, in fact, this increase in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture of these 2 and a half million will go to cover the minimum wage. So there is no agricultural policy on the part of the government, as a low-paying expert cannot expect from it and great results. I'll give another example. In order to secure the activities of the Executive Agency, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EFF) certification audit has been set up at 1 million. 681 thousand. lv. This has been for years and, at the same time, we have delegated more activities, and this audit agency will also audit the maritime and fisheries programme. We're putting eight more people on him without paying them. What do we expect from these people? How will they work, how will they audit European funds? Prof. Bachvarova also said that there is no increase and there is a shortage of 17 million. lv.: for staff, almost 4 million. BGN, for maintenance of newly built rocket launches over 1 million BGN, and 7.2 million for missiles. That money's missing! With regard to the Irrigation Systems. Yeah, we're increasing by 2 million. lv. The budget, but the Irrigation Systems.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... There's a 6 million shortage here. lv. We saw what happened recently in Burgas and other regions. With a deficit of 6 million. lv. We expect more incidents like this. Regarding the Agricultural Academy Professor Bachvarova also explained that there the shortage of professors, doscs are extremely inadequate and with one salary of 700 BGN. to a professor imagine what activity he will perform and how he will be motivated when in many companies and agencies the cleaners take the same salary?! In short, we cannot support this budget. Once again, I would like to repeat that for another year 43 minor officers will remain on the minimum wage. These people are extremely demoted, and there is no way we can support this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u96	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Dear colleagues, today there is a mass female presence in the parliament of the balcony are women from Burgas. Please welcome them! [[Applause.]] We continue with the speech of the National Representative Bürhan Abase. Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable colleagues, ladies from Burgas and from Kardzhali! What I will be referring to under the budget of the Republic for 2018 in the part of................................................................................................... We all know very well that the budget is the main means of policy making. There are so few funds in the 2018 budget that even policies can not be made. You'll say the sector is very funded. Thank God it is financed by non-Bulgarian funds, that it is financed by European funds. And the share of our budget, of our country's contribution to co-financing together with European funds as national payments, is extremely low. What we have done as proposals on the draft budget is in three main directions. I do not want to stop at the few funds that are for the capital expenditures of the Ministry itself, for the few funds that are for the maintenance of the Ministry, for the few funds that are for the making of national policy by the Ministry. We cannot fail to make a proposal, and I cannot fail to respond in three main directions. Dear colleagues, these are the three main directions that are chronically underfunded. When I say chronically, my observations have been at least 15 years and these three sectors, as a matter of fact, for a long time, are not funded enough, which is a huge ulcer, which is a huge problem for our Ministry. The proposals we have made are related to the harmful effects of water, the Agency for the Fight against hails and the Agricultural Academy. What we have proposed as a common sum of resources, which we want to add with concern, I say, is 28 million. lv. I'm saying this with concern because last night, when I saw what a commotion it was for a million dollars. lv. In excess, at 28 million. lv. Wanted now for the Ministry of Agriculture, I can't imagine the commotion that's about to take place here in the Chamber! Dear colleagues, if we do not anticipate these funds, the commotion that will occur throughout the country after possible pouring rains or after a lot of hails, for example in the summer, will be even greater. I therefore call on the right part of this House to be understanding and my eyes are on you, Mrs. Taneva. You know very well what I am talking about because you have personally experienced the failure to finance these three sectors in Bulgarian agriculture. I'm sorry that the minister is not here, because in fact the biggest blow and the biggest problem will fall on his head with this planned budget. Believe me, there is no minister in the country to deal with this budget with these challenges facing the sector. In addition, we have asked for means to protect against the harmful effects of water. I admit it's not the best model! I admit the pattern is wrong! Because, colleagues, we have given powers, obligations to a legal person, to a commercial entity whose sole owner of the capital is the Minister of Agriculture in the face of the Irrigation Systems. We have obliged it to perform a public, public function to protect against the harmful effects of water life and health of hundreds, thousands, millions of Bulgarians, millions of acres of land, millions of animals and so on. All this must be done by a trading company that is underfunded. I've personally been on the board of this company, colleagues, and I know that with the intended means besides looking at these dikes...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u98	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u99	...nothing more can be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u100	Time! Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u101	The other direction in which we want more money.. 17 million. BGN is the Agency for the Fight against hails because the Ministry announced that there will be a program to restructure this sector...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u102	The weather, Mr. Abase!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u103	I'm done, Madam President. I call on you, colleagues on the right, show some sense, accept these suggestions of ours, so that any minister sitting on this side can perform his duties calmly and normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u104	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Petrov for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u105	Dear colleagues! I want to tell you that I've prepared pretty well for this show. [[Laughter]] For that statement! I was focused on not having any file of diplomas! I don't have any folder to comfort Mr. Kostadinov with that we have a fling! I don't, I'm an uneducated man! Valeri Simeonov found him there and brought him to the National Assembly. I'm telling you, I don't have files, I don't have suitcases, I don't have anything! In essence, I started my speech so provocatively so that you could pay attention to me, directed to the middle and left of the room and also to the right. You'll see in what way. First, there are 156 million in the expenditure part of the budget. BGN, which are for agricultural policies - agricultural policies. I am sharpening the attention of all MPs from GERB to know what this is about. I hope I have enough time! It is a question of very strict monitoring how two thirds of this money is spent " 89 million. BGN because all this policy for 156 million. lv. and the presence in it of some 89 million. lv. are the reason, in many respects, that our agricultural holding is not competitive, that we have protests from milk producers, meat producers and other products. Please pay attention to 89 million out of 156 million for the entire agricultural policy will be given to people who do not have transitional assistance, people who need to stop growing tobacco and focus on something else, as tobacco is not subsidized by the European Commission in any way. It is reported by the European Commission and the World Health Organization as drugs and therefore nothing is given. It gives 89 million to people who are listed by a single party of Bulgarian. These lists were drawn up in an unknown way and it is written that between 2007 and 2009 people were supposed to be farmers. However, if they were not farmers and did not have production, the years before 2007 will be watched. In 2013, while the DPS was in power in agriculture, a decision was made, passed to the European Commission, with which Bulgaria undertook to give every year There's no subsidies, understand that! That's not a grant! These are funds that are given on lists of people who are enrolled by one party and are provided in the relevant services. In many ways, these people are not tobacco manufacturers. They are producers and they can, for example, raise horses, raise cattle and receive money for transitional aid tobacco. It was introduced into the European Commission in 2013, prepared the corresponding order by the European Commission and this thing weighs every year on the state budget. Therefore, Mrs. Bachvarova, with respect to you, there is no money for the Agricultural Academy. That's the reason why there's no money because two thirds of the money goes to an activity unrelated to production. That's exactly how it's written: a non-production-related activity for which money is given. Do you know what the DPS explained, from the then ministry in the European Commission, to confirm it? That these farmers would, you see, leave their seats and put pressure on the population of large cities. To stop them from going to the big cities, we have to give them 90 million from the budget of the Agricultural Ministry every year. lv. They don't do anything about their transformation into production. Remember my word: in 2020 the 2021 will come here. That's what I meant. Be vigilant how these two thirds of the money is spent!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u106	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? Here's your first line, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u107	Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't mean to replicate my colleague, but since last night and today, I notice that my colleague is bringing up this subject for the second time, and not in the most correct way. I don't know how many degrees my colleague has, but I'm gonna have to give him a lecture. Dear colleague, during this period I was at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. You're speaking frank nonsense from this tribune. First of all, none of these lists has ever made any party of ours or yours or anyone else. Secondly, the regulation, the European Union Directive, which says it will be paid for a reference period, has not been invented by us. Thirdly, the people who have entered these lists are from the Tutun Fund, which existed once upon a time, so you have no right to speak in this way about the most unjust, the most neglected and the most suffering farmers and tobacco producers in Bulgaria. If you want more information, I'm willing to give it to you, but from this tribune you have no right to say that about tobacco producers, because it's not true what you say. Do not politicize the problem, because no one has made lists, no one has made decisions whether or what money, how much to give to tobacco producers. All of this is by regulation, by directive, for a reference period, for a past period. That they do not grow tobacco today, they are not obliged to grow tobacco, but must have grown tobacco during the transitional period. In addition, I can continue the lecture from the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u108	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Second line please, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Petrov, I am extremely surprised by your speech. I was convinced and with the feeling that you would deliberately make these tobacco producers come to protest on the yellow pavement for three or four years. I didn't hear an incentive policy for restructuring these people in other proceedings. You will deliberately make sure that you come to protest after three years, and these really are wronged and poor people.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u110	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. That was a second line. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u111	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, I said I didn't have any education. I'm a man taken from the street, and he's right, Mr. Abase, when he said I was talking nonsense. Such a man talks nonsense, of course. The fact that a party has not officially made lists of course it has not made official, otherwise it would have been given to the court for such activities. Such lists have been drawn up and this, honourable MPs, not spectators, is a work very perfectly done. I am telling you that this work has led to the fact that today we are voting on budget 156 million, with 90 million of them being given to people who have been listed and who have been in the Tutune Fund. The second thing the gentleman didn't tell you. This transitional period ended in 2013, on 31 December. He had to end up and people said, "You have a seven-year period to do the job. " These people should have already come out of the drug industry and started producing something else. No, our people managed to get notifications, with gymnastics, to get them to give them another seven years. The young colleague who took incompetence because the man doesn't know, not that he's as simple as me, right?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u112	Please, Mr. Petrov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u113	He doesn't talk nonsense, but he's incompetent because he doesn't know. In the Committee on Agriculture, we have made a decision and made a change in the Law, with which people who refuse to watch tobacco will receive much more help than the aid they are given as a transitional. It's not a subsidy. They're being given transitional help to give up the production of drugs. In this regard, I would like to draw attention again, to know that the people who protest before the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, who will come to protest here, are protesting because of 156 million, which the state has the right to give as State aid because that's what it gives, 90 million go to people read the messages, some of the people who have the right to receive this money, are angry why they give first to those who have their own warehouses. Can you imagine? Help being given to people who have tobacco stores?! Ridiculous! And the fact that I'm talking nonsense is how my mother gave birth to me. I'm just making up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u114	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Requested statement please, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u115	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am referring to the spending hour of the State Budget Bill and I would like to compare Budget 2018 with the one for the previous year. The proposed budget amounts to 116 million. BGN, and for the previous BGN, which makes a difference of 2,5 million. lv. The percentage of 2.2% shared by my colleague Georgiev what is aimed at this increase is indicative of the expenditure hour of the budget, as we are talking about increasing the minimum wage by 50 BGN. and its passage from BGN 460. BGN 510. In view of the large inequalities that have occurred in the secondary managers of budgets under the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, I would like to compare the minimum wage of employees in the district directorates of agriculture and their subservient municipal agriculture services. In these services, junior experts receive salaries of 460 BGN and senior experts of 560 BGN. If we compare with the proposed new minimum wage of 510 BGN, we will see that the difference in the hierarchy of employees in these offices is only 50 BGN. The question arises: for what do these employees receive remuneration, and why is this great wage inequality in the various secondary officers of budgets? I am referring to the municipal agriculture services compared to the salaries received by the employees in the State Fund of Agriculture, respectively Paying Agency, as well as those working in the central management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Here we are talking about a great injustice, inequality of almost a 50% difference in remuneration between the two institutions. This injustice is not reflected in the current budget, which we will not support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u116	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any lines? I won't. The word for speech has the popular representative Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u117	Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not want to take a procedure in the manner of conduct, but I will use from my time for the speech to save time for the National Assembly. very please, when someone is speaking on certain budgets, pay attention to him, that despite perhaps his poor awareness, or as he said: not a good education, there is a difference between the budget of the Fund and the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. If he wanted to say something about the Fund, he would have had the time to do it, not when we were discussing the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to concern us with other budgets. I understand that everyone understands what the budget says, but it is still nice to read and prepare. All the time in this regard because I don't feel prepared enough to ask a question. I'm going to argue with him first, he may come up with some budget-related issues, but you'll find he's still connected to him. On 17 October this year, a three-member composition of the Supreme Administrative Court issued a decision with regard to Decree No 9 of 2015 on the implementation of a sub-measure 4.1 It is clear from the decision of this Chamber that the applicant has full reason in the arguments it has put forward and that, according to the decision of the SAC, there is non-compliance with art. 77 of the Administrative Procedure Code, and of Article 77 of the Administrative Procedure Code 26, para. 2 of the Law on Legislative Acts, a higher law and therefore there is grounds for annulment of the contested provision on the basis of art. 193, para. 1 and in relation to art. 145, p. 3 of the AKK. I read it to you so you know I'm talking about serious things. It is a programme of 500 million. lv. It is about a programme which, if challenged and the five-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court confirmed the decision of the three-member Chamber, would it not be necessary, again, to ask, this 500 million. lv. - Half a billion to be returned, that is, they will not be returned by the European Commission, they will have to be returned from the budget. Is there such a risk, and if it exists, is this provided for in the budget for next year? That was my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u118	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? Are there any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u119	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am making this statement to answer the question asked by the previous Member, since history in some media and that we are from the same constituency, I know that this is a question to me and I will answer it. First of all, I would like to say that the speeches made by my colleagues, without the last one, by the Bulgarian Socialist Party, by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and by the Patriot Front were practically in the same direction. I, too, without the last statement of the BSP MP, would support their remarks and wishes for the budget. Yes, they are in the right direction and I believe that in the course of the next financial year of 2018 in the implementation of part of the political programme of the cabinet and the adoption of the respective legislative initiatives, which were announced and which I am working on, and for the reform of the Agricultural Academy, I have now seen Professor Bachvarova, all that is desired, although not fully, will be realized. There are, in principle, grounds, but we must, of course, comply with the budget framework. I think it should be supported at the moment as it is provided to us. Apostolov and I talked about salaries and their transfer that a mechanism would be found. So colleagues have spoken in one direction about what is necessary and are in the right direction. With regard to the question that has been asked and has a particular purpose, I will respond in the same way. A court ruling has been cited that has not entered into force. I also want to say I'm not going to read it. On the site of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest there is published information about the reports in some media with a certain contingent readability. Regardless of what the decision of five Member States is, there is no definite danger of either not paying approved, contracted projects under Measure 4.1, nor of funds that would be at the expense of the Bulgarian taxpayer and the European Commission would refuse reimbursements. I know it's a patent for some colleagues on the left. Just two years ago, maybe a month ago, the subject was some billions, a stop and so on. None of this came true. Two years later, a judgment is interpreted in a way that can only be interpreted as a firework that burns in the sky in seconds. There's nothing true about that. Let's not make it so that one day when we speak truth and facts, no one will believe us anymore. Thank you for having given me the floor and also for my colleagues from the Committee on Agriculture, with whom, regardless of political decoration, we come in a debate to decisions on agriculture which are in the same direction and in the interests of agriculture.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am taking a procedure this time really in the manner of conduct. You should have reminded the speaker that when he is willing to comment on someone who has spoken before him, he must do so as a line so that we can have the answers. Not doing it as a line, the speaker deprived me of the opportunity to thank for the answer to the question, because if you remember and open the transcript, you will see that it was a question and a request for interpretation. It wasn't a finding, it was a concern. The fact that someone took it a little more seriously is his own personal matter, and surely, perhaps in truth and truth, and because of the procedure, someone had to come out and say that he was in conflict of interest because he was a party to the case. But that's another question. I'm gonna ask you one more time: let's not try to hide behind a speech when we're making a line, so there's no possibility of a back-up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other statements? There's no wish to make a statement. We're going to vote. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev, not supported by the Commission. Vote 156 MPs: 55 against 71, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. [[National Representative Tasco Ermenkov signals that there is a problem with the console.]] Mr. Ermenkov, what's the problem? Vote 160 MPs: 53, against 81, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 159 MPs: 56 against 83, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text for art. 23, proposed by the Commission. They voted 163 MPs: for 106, against 57 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Stoilov. [[(People from GERB,.... United ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u123	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I voted against art. 23 of the budget, because representatives from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry have made it clear that the money placed in the budget is not enough. I will only address some of the directions in which some development is proposed, which I can call quite calmly symbolic or sluggish development. With regard to the Agency for the Fight against hails, it is a chronic shortage of funds. However, we see some positive measures and intentions with vague results, both vague temporally and effectively unfounded. We've heard explanations of new funding models, and again on the back of the people who are in touch with this area. It must be easy for you to take from them to account for some activity. We do not see the desire to do something with which the state does not abdicate responsibility and has no commitment by proposing a reasonable and effective approach to developing anti-urban protection to improve its way of working. I'm not going into the details because the situation has become tragic. Several sentences for the Agricultural Academy. Again, the same situation has no funds, there is not enough finance. You want the Academy to start supporting itself again. I mean, the subsidy has decreased twice and a half in recent years, and own revenues must be increased. Young scientists are becoming less and less willing to work at the Academy, and not as young as they are decreasing. This is due not only to the low pay but also to the poor condition of the material and technical base, including the lack of new equipment, outdated equipment in laboratories and others. There are many details to specify in this area. A lot of them are related to regulatory changes, others with management decisions. Despite all these data that you very well know and realize, it comes back to the other only good wishes and intentions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u124	The weather, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u125	To all our proposals for an increase in funds...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u126	Get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u127	... You are voting against the opposition impulsively and because they are proposed by the opposition. You're voting against the development of science. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u128	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. For the second negative vote there is the word Mr. Nikolai Boshkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u129	Madam President, honourable Members! I see that the colleagues on the right seem to be quite hungry, the topic of........ is of little interest to them. I will be brief, as the pre-speakers said almost everything they had to say in terms of agriculture. I voted against it in the part of the budget for the following reasons. Firstly, according to the budget parameters in the part of the Agriculture Academy, there is no modern agriculture without modern science. Secondly, in the field of irrigation systems, because we do not have competitive farming without irrigation. It turns out that in a conversation with our colleagues, our irrigation systems are currently at pre- 1944 levels. The third pillar that supports the Ministry of Agriculture is the office for fighting hails. It is these three pillars that are extremely underfunded in the current budget compared to previous years' budgets. With regard to sectoral policies, there is no adequate policy for protecting people's health, given the dangerous foods we consume. Restoration lack of policy regarding the restoration of land within unreal borders. Lack of a vision policy for the production of traditional crops characteristic of our region. Last but not least, I would like to say a serious problem: a lack of policy in obtaining subsidies and wrongful giving of measures and pastures to people who do not meet the requirements. One of these questions I had asked the Minister of Agriculture. I have received an abstract response from which it is clear that there is a serious lack of policy here by the Ministry of Agriculture. That is why I voted against the budget in its part...................................................................................... Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u130	Thank you, Mr. Boshkov. Third negative vote please, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u131	Thank you, Madam President. I, too, voted against the budget in its part...... which has just been voted, not only for the reasons I support and which have been voiced by those who have also given their negative vote, but because this is ultimately about the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. With regard to irrigation systems, they do not have only a function to irrigate the Bulgarian fertile land, they have a function to drain. In Vidin region, this problem is really serious and there the life and health of the population are seriously threatened, as there are no funds provided for and in this budget for the irrigation systems to be able to function normally, to drain the covered areas in the area concerned, as well as to clean the troughs of the rivers. This threatens the lives and health of the population. Several such accidents have already occurred in Vidin region and in other areas as well. None of this, however, is taken as a measure, despite those problems that exist in the planned budget, in relation to agriculture. That is why I, too, voted against it, is lacking in any policy and vision and a strategy for the development of agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u132	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Honourable Members, I declare a 30-minute recess, and then the sitting will continue. An exhibition of the great Bulgarian artist Georgi Baev will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. The event is within the celebrations of the celebration of the city of Bourgas. The exhibition will be accompanied by a charity bazaar of poetic books of Burgas poets from all generations. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the event. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u133	Dear colleagues, please take your seats. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Are we ready to continue reading the report? Please, the coworkers will join us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 24 there is a proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadaye, Yordan Tsonev, Adelen Shevked, Sergey Kichikov, Halil Letifov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Ahmed Ahmedov, Imren Mehmedova, Burhan Abase, Hasan Ademov, Tanner Ali, Nigiar Jaffer: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following changes are made: In para. 1, Section II "Costs" and Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) " are made the following changes shall be made: - in para. 1 Section II is replaced by the number? 256 421,4 is replaced by the number?275 868,4? - in para. 1 Section II row 1. the number..245, 912,4... 262 359,4................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 1 Section II row 1.1. the number 1 Section II row 1.2. the number - in para. 1 Section II row 1.2.1. is replaced by the number - in para. 1 Section II row 1.2.1.1. is replaced by the number....175 000,0.. is replaced by the number..186 611.0.. in para.1 Section II row 2.....10 509,0.. is replaced by the number..13 509,0.. - in para. 1 Section II, row 2.1., the number - in para. 1, Section III, the number sssssxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx - in para. 1, Section III, row 1. the number....139 In para. 2 the following changes are made: - in row 1, the number....217 536.6.. is replaced by the number....232 147.6.. - in row 3, the number..20 322,8..... 25 158,8............................................................................................... - in line "Everything' is replaced by the number "Supreme'; - in para. 3 line 1. the number..238 118,7.................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line II. The cost of the number Current expenditures the number..245, 912,4.. is replaced by..248,350,4................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number - in row 1.2.1.2. for (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in Row III. "Budget relationships (transfers) " (the number..109 - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget the number..139 2. in para. 2: - in row 2. In the field of communications and information technology, the number..18 562.0. is replaced by.21 000,0................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - in line "Everything's going to be replaced by "256 421,4' is replaced by "258 859,4'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches under art. 24. Mr. Letifov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly, under the article in question. 24 we have several substantial proposals, which are actually proposals from the Ministry, but not realized. As we joke about Mr. Ivanov, he also supports them, but unspokenly. We hope now at least in the vote to support these sensible proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u137	That's not true. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u138	In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following changes are made according to our proposals. They are three essentials, I will read them further with the figures we have discussed, Mr. Ivanov, and I hope you will support them today in the Chamber. First, the BDZ subsidy increased by 11 million 611 thousand approximately. The cost of the company is increased by 4 million. 836 thousand. BGN, to increase the qualification and motivation of staff in BDZ and employees, and to increase capital expenditure by 3 million. BGN, for the purchase of 120 cars for the needs of the Executive Agency. Further, this is divided into numbers and by sub-paragraphs. Maybe I won't go into details so I don't waste time. These are some proposals which as priorities have the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications itself, but they have not met support in negotiating the budget. Based on the increase of the budget and the budgetary framework with these approximately 12.6%, if memory serves, and what has been done or rather is protected by the Ministry of Transport with our proposal, we reach this framework of increase of the budget, in order to obtain this justice in the Ministry of Transport, there are further suggestions that I will argue when their time comes. [[Heckling]] In Article 4 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 1 they were not supported, but if they are now supported, this will be a fair solution, which will show the industry that it has not been forgotten because, in the presentation of the budget by the Finance Ministry in the Commission, we have understood one fundamental thing that transport as a sector is not a priority in this budget. Therefore, our proposals are not populist, on the contrary, many times they are stated as priorities by the Ministry. Secondly, within the acceptable increase, we have introduced our proposals because they are feasible. Dear colleagues, outside populism and the naked promises, I really ask you to support these proposals of ours, to show a good attitude also to BDZ Travel, which are actually one transport across Europe, which is tolerated because it is environmentally friendly, convenient and so on, but we have forgotten it here, Mr. Ivanov, as you share, of course. I hope he will really meet an understanding of this proposal, it is reasonable and will be appreciated by all Bulgarian citizens who use BDZ services and not only. We have commented that it deserves this support so that we can fight the roadwreckers in a preventative way. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u139	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Dear Members of the National Assembly, you have the floor for lines of speech, and Mr. Ivanov for a personal explanation, if he wishes, of course. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] There are no lines to the statement. We move on to the next speeches. You have the floor. Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear guests! I am participating in a third parliament, a fellow Member said in a transmission, I would say a performance, which we are preparing for since the beginning of September as an opposition. In the composition of Coalition BSP for Bulgaria there are twenty councils on sectoral policies, in which, apart from the MPs, experts from the various parties in the Coalition participate. We have held hundreds of meetings, we assure you, hundreds of meetings, with representatives of different departments, municipalities, settlements, union actors, industry structures with the desire to be useful in preparing a real, objective budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018. Unfortunately, no opposition proposal was accepted this time either. Even from the best man's shame, I'd say because it's in the public interest and it was good to support something. You surprised me as a thunderbolt to win $1 million. 200,000. lv. for a sacred work for the repair of Athos and St. Alexander Nevsky. Something that caused a storm in this room, and I find it quite normal for one of the proposals to be supported, especially, I say again, a small sum, a sacred case of things that are symbols of our country. We haven't been able to figure out how to proceed, and what's going on right now? I know you don't accept our proposals because you think what you're predicting is the best. I regret that the ministers are gone and that neither of them are already looking at art. 24 did not rise and said: thank the opposition, you support us; we know that there is no money this year; we cannot accept your proposals, but we thank you; we will rely on you; we know that you support us correctly; you want things to go, unfortunately, is not working. I will not talk about BDZ because our President of the Commission Mr. Letifov speaks, but I will say a few words about the messages. The Bulgarian Post Office performs a universal service which the state assigns to them in a difficult, competitive environment and therefore, of course, the state subsidizes the Bulgarian Post Office. In this company the salaries are one of the lowest in the country between 400 and 700 BGN, regardless of whether you are a graduate, not a graduate, head. We think these are low, very low salaries. What you are predicting in the budget - a 2.5% increase - will be really insufficient. I would like to share with you that in many settlements in the country the only public official is the post office representative. The only person the people are addressing is the postal worker and many people in the country really rely on them. It's right for us to be tolerant of them. I see that the revenues in the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications are quite underestimated, and they could, because they have property that is right to be sold, to set aside funds and to help these people feel good, comfortable doing their duties and to serve faithfully in the performance of their tasks. My wish, honourable Members, is to support this proposal of ours by 2 million. 438 thousand. BGN, let's raise to para. 1, Section II, the subsidy for the Bulgarian Post Office. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u141	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. You have the floor for lines of speech. There are no lines. You have the floor for further comments, please. There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote proposals which are not supported by the Commission. They belong to the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. I shall put this proposal to the vote. They voted 134 MPs: 37 against 70, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs under art. 24, not supported by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: 42, against 72, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the proposal to art. 24 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 149 MPs: 104 against 44, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Deputy Minister! I voted negatively for several reasons, which I will make very brief. First, I went to the trouble of looking at Budget 2017 and the Ministry of Transport, and I did a comparative analysis with Budget 2018. I came up with a reasonable assumption that almost 90% of the texts were copied by changing only the figures. [[(Noise and lines on the right. (Laughter)]] It's not funny, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u143	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u144	If you bother to look at the previous draft budget report, you'll see it's not funny. Besides, how would we know these numbers from the budget, when we don't have the numbers from the budget implementation from the previous years? [[(Noise. (Laughter)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u145	Take them, they're public.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u146	Mr. Ivanov, one moment. May I ask the merry company for silence? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u147	The so-called mission of the Minister's project plan is noted that we will aim to reduce fuel consumption and increase energy efficiency and also limit the negative impact of transport on the environment. I want to tell you that this does not correspond to the truth at all, and I dare say that I have a complete idea of the work of the ports.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u148	Guide to completion, Mr. Ivanov. [[Sighs: ♪ The Time! ♪]] Time's running out. Finish it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u149	I end up with the revenues from concessions because in the draft report of the Minister of Budget there is a thread that leads to concessionation of ports and airports. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u150	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u151	I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the collection of concession fees is at 67%.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u152	Mr. Ivanov, get it over with. You're almost one minute behind schedule.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u153	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u154	Thank you. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am making a procedure with a proposal to extend the plenary session until the adoption of the entire Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, together with the Annexes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u156	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We got the offer. Are there any other suggestions? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by Mr. Daniel Kirilov to extend the working time until the state budget is adopted, along with the annexes. They voted 147 MPs: 104, against 24, abstention 19. The motion is accepted. Working hours are extended. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u157	Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments have been made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line two. The cost of the number "s75 732,0' is replaced by "84 642,8'. - on line one. Current expenditures the number....74 082.0.. is replaced by..82 - in row 1.1. The number of staff is '11 553,1' is replaced by '12 912,5'. - in row 1.1.1. Staff without delegated budgets the number - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number - in line 10.2. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit corporate entities the number - in row 1.3. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households the number - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number s. 1 650,0s. is replaced by s.1 850,0s. - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number "s47 032.0" is replaced by "s57 942.9. 2. in para. 2: - on line one. Sports policy for students and sports in leisure time is replaced by - in row 2. Sport policy for excellence the number - on line three. Sports and equipment alignment policy in a form corresponding to the current international standards, the number - in row four. Policy in the field of the absorption and application of good international practices for sport the number - in row five. Young People's Policy The number - in row six. Budgetary programme............................................................................................................................................................... - in line Everything the number..75 732.0. is replaced by.84 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for speeches under art. 25 on the Commission's proposal and on the additional proposals made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u159	Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! Of course, we cannot support a budget that follows a downward trend as a percentage of gross domestic product. The percentage of the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports is 0.071 of the gross domestic product of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is the lowest among all European countries. The practice is that in developed European countries this budget will be within one and two per cent of the total budget of the countries. Therefore, a strategy of successive measures is required to increase the gross volume of financial resources by 15% each year. In this regard, we propose an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Youth and Sports by 12 million, or 12 nearly 12%. The most important two policies implemented by the Ministry: one policy that concerns the health of Bulgarian children and especially the absorption of sports habits, which means providing organized forms of sport in leisure time for adolescents, or that is the sport policy for students in sports for leisure time. Here the Ministry envisions 16 million, of which 11 million are only for maintenance and maintenance of state sports schools. The amount allocated to sport in leisure and sport among children is five million. You understand that this is an extremely insufficient percentage of the total cost of sports policy. We have always insisted over the years that there is a balance of the percentage that is allocated to sport for excellence and of the percentage that is allocated to youth policy or sport for all. Currently, the balance is as follows: 80% is a means of sport for excellence and the remaining 20% for sport in leisure and for adolescents. That is why yesterday, with our proposal to change and increase the means to implement Decree 129, which meant an opportunity for a more quality process of physical education and sport in the leisure of children and students, was missed. The opportunity was missed for the sport budget to be increased by another three and a half million and achieve that balance that we want: 50% for a high sporting achievement and 50% for sport for everyone. The other main policy is the policy of excellence. Here our proposal is for an increase of 4% on the main budget and it is dictated by the need for a large part of the sports federations in summer sports, which continue to work with a significant shortage of financial resources, and this will create problems for the participation of our competitors in the Olympic Games in 2020. The objective data suggests that in planning, financing and management of the representative sport in Bulgaria is the extremely worrying and for a decade sustainable trend for the country's catastrophic performance for winter and summer Olympics and it will remain if we follow this model of distribution of funds. And, of course, one of the most important problems related to the development of the Bulgarian sport is the state of sports infrastructure. It is true that large sports sites have been made that are, of course, far from the need for sports and sports facilities for citizens and adolescents and young people. These sports large facilities are only intended for organization and realization of major sporting events, but what is a deficit, and what is absent at the moment, these are the training sports facilities, the accessible sports base for the Bulgarian citizens. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The funds here are only a million and a half. And there is not a single program through which municipal sports sites and state sports sites can apply for funds for reconstruction, repair, and, of course, mostly for the construction of new sports sites.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u160	Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u161	That is why we cannot support our proposal here, of course, to increase the funds in this policy by BGN 5 million. I think that you will show your understanding and your love and concern for Bulgarian children and the health of Bulgarian children, and you will support our proposal. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. You have the floor for lines, fellow Members. There are no lines. The people's representative Mr. Ivan Chenchev has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u163	Mr. Chairman, there are no ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! And the minister is gone, but still in seven months we managed to bring him here in the so-called she-goat. Mrs. Lecheva, a slight remark I make to your statement regarding the fact that you did not say that the budget program for sports for students and sports in leisure time provided money for golf. For you I don't know, I haven't seen children playing golf in interblock spaces, but, thank God, at the moment, the petal or skeleton is not included, or... Since we agreed in the Commission that there should be national priority sports and I think we have agreed on this issue. What golf does there, it doesn't make sense. A significant disadvantage of the Budget Project is the lack of a new vision in its revenue section. Once again, this project lacks an increase in the revenues from the activities of the Bulgarian sports Totalizer. The planned non-tax revenues are at the level of past years of BGN 26.7 million. The data suggest that the totalizer is in severe crisis and is constantly losing market positions. Currently there are no legislative initiatives to store the positions of the BST as one of the main sources of financial resources for sport, as well as the search for new ones. The objective data suggests that when planning by the Ministry funding and management of the representative sport in Bulgaria the extremely worrying and for a decade sustainable trend for the catastrophic performance of our country will be maintained. Our country also needs a new national Olympic complex, by the way, we have agreed on this issue again, as well as reconstruction and modernization of several sport specialized national sports sites. Policy in the field of young people: here is, I would say, even cynical situation, because the increase in our proposed budget in the field is with, notice, 60 BGN, 60 Bulgarian BGN! It is symbolic in this area. The budget programme............................................................................................................ 2018 has 22%, close to 23, or 366 200 BGN. The administration's support amounts to 1 million. 155,000. lv. What requires this increase at the moment, I didn't understand. The draft budget of the Ministry for 2018 is insufficient and cannot provide sustainable funding, growth and reforms in the sector of physical education and sport, it does not set an intensive pace for development and clear priorities corresponding to the objectives of a national strategy for the development of physical education and sport until 2022. And something also important: in many of our debates in the Commission, we have also talked about this, including recognition by the minister himself, that sport is increasingly turning to science. We do not see in this budget many important things that are part of people's lives, not only athletes, but also adolescents and, of course, all who are involved in mass sports. Nothing in the field of sports medicine, kinesis therapy, not a word! The characteristic features of the system are unsatisfactory efficiency and instability. The bad news is that this will continue. Therefore, personally, and the group, we will vote against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. You have the floor for lines of speech, honourable MPs. There are no lines. Are there any other statements? The people's representative, Miss Theodora Halacheva, has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u165	Dear Mr. Jablyanov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to supplement Mr. Chenchev's statement, namely on the policy and the funds allocated in the field of youth activities. I believe that youth policies are not the priority of the government at the moment. Why? I'll prove it to you with numbers. Currently, the only programme of the Ministry of Youth and Sports concerning young people, namely the Youth in Action and for 2018, 2019 and 2020 allocates 1 million. Nine hundred and £800. for three activities. I ask: how will the government's policies be implemented with these funds, which I think are extremely insufficient, namely to implement the strategic goal stated by the Ministry's management, I quote: Is this the support of the state to young people? Is that a way to keep young people in the country? There is no way with three million leva, which are envisaged in this sector to be detained young people, to develop, to create their families and to stay in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u166	Thank you, Miss Halacheva. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposals made on art. 25. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Cornelia Nino, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Zhelyo Boychev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 42, against 82, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal for a text of art. 25 of the Commission. They voted 147 MPs: for 106, against 41, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u167	Under art. 26 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u168	Statements under art. 26? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of the text for art. 26, supported by the Commission. Vote 147 MPs: for 103, against 44, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u169	Under art. 27 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in Section II. COSTS: - in line II. The cost of the number ss 108 159,0 is replaced by s120 691,0s. - on line one. Current costs the number - in row 1.1. The number of staff is "94 145,5" and is replaced by "104 677,5." - in row 2. Capital expenditures the number six hundred and eight hundred and eight thousand shall be replaced by eight thousand and zero. - in row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number (b) in Section III, BUDGETARY PROMOTIONS (Transfers): - in Row III. BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers) the number - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number..108 2. In para. 2: - on line one. National Security Protection Policy (National Security Protection Policy) is replaced by - in line Everything the number..108 159,0..................................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u170	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Zhelyo Boychev for art. 27. They voted 144 MPs: 44, against 78, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal for art. 27 on the text supported by the Commission. They voted 144 MPs: 99 against 45 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u171	Under art. 28 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs art. 28 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u172	Thank you. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Anyone? No. We are going to vote on Mrs. Cornelia Ninova's proposal, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Zhelyo Boychev art. 28 drop out. Vote 149 MPs: 41, against 91, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text to the vote for art. 28 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 150 MPs: 104 against 37, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u173	Under art. 29 has a proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are proposed: ..1.1. In para 1, the following amendments shall be made: 1.1.1. In Section II. The cost, the number 2,570.0 thousand. lv. replace it with the number 2,766,24 thousand. lv. 1.1.2. In Section II. COSTS, t.1 Current costs, number 2 370, 0 thousand. lv. replace it with the number 2 566,24 thousand. lv. 1.1.3. In Section II, COSTS, p. 1.1. Staff, number 1,440.0 thousand. lv. replace by 1,796,6 thousand. lv. 1.1.4. In Section II. COSTS, t. 2. Capital costs, the number 200,0 thousand. lv. to be replaced by 235,0 thousand. lv. 1.1.5. In Section II. COSTS, t. 2.1. Acquisition of fixed assets and major repairs, the number 200,0 thousand. lv. to be replaced by 235,0 thousand. lv. 1.1.6. In Section III, BUDGETARY REPRESENTATIONS (Transfers) - (+/-), the number 2 570.0 thousand. BGN, to be replaced by 2 766,24 thousand lv. 1.1.7. Budget relations with the central budget (+/-), the number 2 570.0 thousand lv. replace by 2,766,24 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any speeches? Here you go. National Representative Valentina Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed amendments and additions to art. 1 to para. 1 and para. 2 relate to the recommendations of the European Commission against racism and intolerance to the Council of Europe and, in particular, to General Political Recommendation No 2, where it is stated that the specialised bodies must have sufficient resources to be able to carry out their functions and duties effectively and their financing must be subject to annual approval by Parliament. In this regard, and in view of the recommendations in the European Commission's monitoring report against racism and intolerance, the Commission for Protection against Discrimination is obliged to open and manage its regional offices throughout the country, which are currently not sufficient. Therefore, the proposals for amendment and supplement of the State Budget Act are proposed to increase the financial resources in art. 29 of the Commission's budget for protection against discrimination of 196 thousand. 240 BGN, which will come from raising the collection rate of the National Revenue Agency. More and more citizens will turn to the Commission for protection against discrimination, seeking their violated rights on a political, economic and religious basis before turning, of course, to the Strasbourg Court. Colleagues, I notice that as the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria's work increases in this direction, I expect that in the coming years the work of the Commission for Protection against Discrimination will also increase. Let us, with this modest financial resource, make their assistance more accessible to citizens, and I expect you to support this may be a proposal, particularly with regard to my address to the members of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u176	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Is there any other statements under art. 29? I don't see any other speeches. I shall put to the vote the proposal made for art. 29 by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 44, against 55, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of the importer for art. 29, supported by the Commission. Vote 137 MPs: 90 against 41, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u177	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is - in item II "Costs', p. 2 Capital expenditures to increase the amount by 2 720 000 BGN, of which 2 100 000 BGN, including 1 500 000 BGN. for reconstruction and major renovation of a building provided for the National Training Centre in the field of personal data protection and 600 000 BGN. to purchase the necessary equipment, equipment and furniture, as well as to develop and introduce an electronic platform for distance training in the field of personal data protection and 420 000 BGN. for staff and 200,000 leva. for maintenance and running costs, including for the period of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for the implementation of additional activities entrusted to the Commission by decision of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. - i.e. 3rd "Budget relationships (transfers) " to increase by the same amount. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put the proposal to art. 30 of the Parliamentary Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 139 MPs: 19 against 45, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote a proposal of the importer for a text for art. 30, supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 97, against 42, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u179	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u180	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. We are going to vote on an importer's text for art. 31, supported by the Commission. They voted 137 MPs: for 93, against 44, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please come in for the report, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u181	Under art. 32 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in Section II. Costs: (a) in row II. The cost of the number (b) in row 1. Current expenditures the number seven forty-seven forty-four hundred and forty-four thousand is replaced by forty-five hundred and twenty-six hundred and twenty-five hundred and twenty-five (c) of row 1.1. Staff number (d) in row 2. Capital expenditures, the number..300,0........1 (e) of row 2.1. The acquisition of fixed assets and the major repair of the number..300,0.. is replaced by.1 2. in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): (a) in row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number (b) in row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget the number..37 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote text by art. 32 The proposal of the MPs Cornelia Nino, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev, not supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 46, against 74, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on proposals from the importer, a text supported by the Commission, for art. 32. They voted 143 MPs: for 93, against 49, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here's your report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u183	Under art. 33 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 33, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Section II. Costs: (a) in row II. The cost of the number s'34 319,0' is replaced by '35 700,0'. (b) in row 1. Current expenditures the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssandsands. 2. In Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): (a) in row III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number (b) in row 1. Budgetary statement with the central budget the number..34 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u184	Are there any speeches? Mr. Philip Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u185	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor in respect of art. 33, because it regulates the budget of the State Agency for Intelligence, as well as the rest of the security services. The State Agency is one of the services that, despite the insultingly small and insufficient budget, is doing its job responsibly and still professionally. The security environment has changed and complicated migration pressure, terrorist threats, uncertain Balkans, while the government's policy towards our security services remains unchanged. Do you know what kind of salary the employee of the State Agency is initially starting with and at the same time what requirements he has for learning foreign languages, rare of which, for computer expertise and information? The starting salary of such an employee is about £1,200. in these requirements. In this regard, evident from the proposed budget, our services in this environment will not be able to fully fulfil their duties and maintain and develop their abilities. The risk of recruiting our services by foreign officials is enormous, given the conditions in which they work, which I mentioned earlier. And we also have European Presidency, let us not forget. The budget of the services is so that they, more or less, can cover their expenses on the buildings in which they are housed and pay, as I said, the insultingly low salaries of their employees. With this budget, there is no responsible way to partner our services with partner security services, on the other hand. Dear Members of Parliament, with this policy, we risk this being not my opinion within five years, it is the opinion of one of the chiefs of these services to practically cease their existence. And that is what we say in the situation in which Bulgaria is currently in place. At the same time, our neighbouring countries are increasing and continuing to increase the budget of their security services. As an example, I can give with neighbouring Turkey. Over the past 10 years, they have increased more than 420 per cent the budget of their Security Service, the budget of the Macedonian Security Office is greater, Croatia's budget compared to the State Agency. Where are we in this situation? This creates an extraordinary risk to our national security and we cannot support this destructive policy for our services, which we see here in the budget. We have proposed here in the draft budget of the State Agency........................... its budget increases.... to take a breath of air so that they can make it through this year and be worthy of continuing to carry out, as I said, their responsible profession and tasks which have been assigned to them in order to protect our national security. Dear MPs, support the proposal we have made if we want to invest in Bulgaria's national security because it is an investment in Bulgaria, it is an investment in the future of Bulgaria. Support this proposal and do not support the proposal of the Council of Ministers, because this is a devastating policy against our security services, against our national security, which is impossible to continue. If you want this policy to continue and in five years we will not have security services, then support the proposal of the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u186	Thank you, Mr. Popov. You have the floor for lines of speech. There are no lines. You have the floor for other speeches. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u187	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would just like to draw attention to the fact that we have found no time in so many months to look at the report, the Report of the State Agency. Now we are the end of 2017 and, frankly, I am really a little interested, on what you will now press the buttons and accept this budget. Do you know what the DAR did in 2016? We don't know what she did in 2017. We trust in what the Council of Ministers believes should be the funding of the State Agency. None of you came out to defend this budget, and the respective minister is actually gone. There's no one to tell us why we're actually giving it away. I share what Philip Popov gave as arguments, as arguments for increasing the budget. But I would very much like, as it is for the State Agency, for the intelligence agency, as well as for the other ministries and institutions that we have discussed and voted on today, to still have someone to come and say a few words about why this budget is and yet what policies will be implemented, is it enough, or is it not, what are the intentions in the coming years? We've got some dry numbers thrown in there, and if anyone wants to know anything more, they have to go through a lot of details. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova: "This should have been in the Commission. "]] I hear you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Some things must have happened in the Commission, but here, after all, Parliament decides, not the committees. Perhaps 90% of the people who will now approve this budget do not know what this is about, and I am convinced that they have not read the 2016 Report. By the way, not only am I convinced, but it can be proved because there, because it is under special regime, there are two signatures in it, one is of a person from GERB, and the second is mine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u188	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, come in. The word is Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I will not repeat what the previous colleagues have said because this is one part of the truth. The reality, unfortunately, is much worse and heavier, and I don't understand why today in this House we are trying to vote on a budget of the State Agency, which continues to keep it in a track, whose direction is in the nothingness. Unfortunately, the Council of Ministers, and in particular the Ministry of Finance, does not understand the policy that the European Union is leading in this direction, all the more so that during our Presidency we are about to close some of the files, which are mainly related to exchange of information. This is one of the priorities for the future and secure European Union, which is being discussed at the highest level. Just to remind you that President Juncker submitted a package of legislative initiatives to change the status of the so-called Schengen Information System. In particular, the State Intelligence Agency is using similar information and with a similar budget cut, unfortunately, it will become exactly one ordinary end user. It will have no added value for what lies ahead for the future of the European Union. My concern is that with these funds that we provide here, we will strengthen a trend and eventually turn the employees of the State Agency of Intelligence into newspapers. They will buy newspapers from foreign press, copy them and provide them as analytical material. I can argue that in this regard the Bulgarian Socialist Party has been extremely consistent over the years and we have very strongly proposed in every budget the amounts needed to support this feather to increase. We're not offering any large-scale amounts this year. We're offering something to cover the Existenz-Minimum of this office. [[Reply by MP Danail Kirilov from GERB.]] Don't replicate me from the hall...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u190	Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u191	Mr. Chairman, let me get a line from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u192	Mr. Kirilov, please. The orator knows his word.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u193	Because it's the truth. It is true that much of the Bulgarian public, not to say the majority, is not aware of the activities of this Agency, but it is vital. Because that is where the information from external sources about threats that are immediate to the Bulgarian state and similar attitude, which is humiliating to the services, should be put to an end. Indeed, turning these people into some newspaper analysts will not be useful either for us or for our partners from the European Union. Again, at one point, the exchange of information becomes key to the future of a secure, genuine European Union, something that is being discussed at European level and not only here in Bulgaria. I am giving very fresh information from the meeting during the Presidency of Estonia, where this has been discussed and we have been highly appreciated that we are expected to complete these files which are related to the exchange of information during our Presidency. And with this thing, we're giving an extremely bad sign to our partners. [[Heckling]] To put it mildly, I am surprised by such an approach, because what is happening in Europe and the threats that are directly strained over our country are one clear clear sign that we must look at these services with another eye in a way that they deserve. I count on my fellow Members to support our proposal, which does not cover in full all the needs and needs of this service, but at least to patch up what is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u194	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It's a very short line. Dear colleague Ivanov, at the meeting of the Commission for Control of the Services, which was held at the State Intelligence Agency, it became clear and a commitment was made by colleagues from the ruling majority, members of this Commission that, see, by a decree of the Council of Ministers in need in the following year in 2018, some additional money will be given to this office. More or less, the extra money, dear colleague Ivanov, is like the money we are offering now. However, perhaps you neglected to say, and I in this regard make you a reply that ultimately, the function of this service is such that it must have a prognosis, it must have a plan. It is not like some other institutions that we are currently looking at a budget, and then can, by decree of the Council of Ministers, be refinanced. When there is no plan, when there is no forecast in this service, it can practically not perform its function, because it sits in a frozen position, cannot develop its abilities, can not even hold them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u196	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines to Mr. Ivanov's statement? I won't. You have the floor for the back. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u197	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Mr. Popov, Dear Members! Unfortunately, I have to agree with your findings and I can make a worse conclusion. Here I can quote Mr. Tsvetanov, who has repeatedly said that the services need security and forecastability for the future. Unfortunately, with this budget, we don't provide this thing. We provide an environment of uncertainty and unpredictable future for these services. I don't want to open a story about the agent's apparatus. [[GERB lines.]] I don't want to open a fairy tale because one practically doesn't exist anymore. With this budget, we cannot maintain one. Not to mention the speculations that have been made over the years, opening files, closing, revealing agents. We are not attractive in any way for people to bring information for the benefit of the Bulgarian state. [[Heckling]] I apologize very much, but all that happens and will happen in the future leads to a single conclusion: we will actually become an ordinary user of information and copycats of newspapers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u198	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Do you have any comments about the doppelganger? I won't. We're going to vote on art. 33. I put to the vote a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski and Zhelyo Boychev for art. 33, not supported by the Commission. Vote 119 MPs: 45, against 61, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Is there a procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u199	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is a re-voting procedure, and in this regard, I call on my fellow Members who are members of these committees, regardless of which political forces they are here, at least give a signal to the services and support our proposal. It is evident that it will not pass in the Chamber, but at least the members of the committees, give a sign to the services that you are really concerned about their future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u200	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A re-vote procedure for the proposal, which we just voted on for art. 33. Vote 126 MPs: 46 against 68, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of art. 33 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: 87, against 44, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u201	Articles 34 to 42, including by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the Members from 34 to 42 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u202	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the discussion. We are going to vote on the text of art. 34...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u203	34 to 42 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u204	... Art. 1 (1) (a) 34 to 42 including reported by Mrs. Stoyanova on the Commission report. They voted 130 MPs: 87, against 43, abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u205	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 43: Art. 43. (1) adopt the budget of the Financial Supervision Commission for 2018 as follows: according to a table. (2) Confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2018 and the maximum amounts of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2018 by the Financial Supervision Commission as follows: according to Table. The Commission shall support art. Art. 44, Art. 45 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u206	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. 43, 44 and 45 in the version of the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: for 85, against 47, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u207	Under art. 46 there is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) in Section II. Costs: - in line two. The cost of the number - on line one. Operating costs the number ssssq.351 348,7 sq.m. is replaced by sq.m.358 348,7sq.m.; - in row 1.2. Subsidies and other current transfers the number - in line 1.2.1. Subsidies and other current transfers to non-financial corporations the number (b) in Section III. Budgetary relations (transfers): - in line III. Budgetary relationships (transfers) the number..401 - on line one. Budgetary statement with the central budget, the number 2. in para. 2: (a) of row 1. The policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in the field of agriculture and rural areas is replaced by 342 507,8 b) On the line All the number 3. the creation of para. 4. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. lv. in a new programme to promote the deployment of scientific discoveries in agriculture. The funds are given to farmers as an additional subsidy per decare, amounting to 1 BGN. The subsidy conditions are governed by a regulation of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u209	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Ministers! The proposal that we are making in the State Fund's plan-account is for the increase of the subsidy by 7 million. lv. The reasons for this are as follows. One. Three hundred million is usually the subsidy granted to the State Fund for State aid. At the beginning of the year. February, March.. these state aids are usually distributed, so fill the entire resource and for the year, in extreme, critical, crisis situations usually the resource does not reach. In addition, from 2018 the State Fund will provide support, firstly, to payments and contracts for the e-circulation, which has not been a priority of the State Fund, and also payments to private practitioners, which is going as a subsidy. Small farmers are also supported in terms of transport costs related to animal transport. We therefore believe that with these 7 and a half million, which we propose to increase the State Fund's contribution to the R &amp; D fund, we will create better sustainability in the work of the Fund and cover all the necessary damage that could occur in the course of the year. Indeed, the risks in recent years of the climate factor have led to payments that have never, in any form, been planned for the Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u210	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines to the statement. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We're going to vote on art. 46. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Voted 118 MPs: 41, against 61, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 46 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 74 against 28, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u211	The Commission shall support the texts of the importer for art. 47 to 49 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u212	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I'm closing the discussion. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. 47 to 49 including by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: for 67, against 32, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u213	Under art. 50 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in row 1 Bulgarian national radio number 2. on row 2 Bulgarian national television the number..65 397,4.. is replaced by.70 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Stefan Danailov, Alexander Simov and Chavdar Velinov: The amounts referred to in Article 1 (2) (b) and (c) - ct. 1 "Bulgarian National Radio" (Български Национална "Bulgarian National Radio") was replaced by a 5 million increase. lv. - ct. 2 - Bulgarian national television (Bulgarian national television) - the number "65 397, 4" to be replaced by "70 397, 4" - an increase of 5 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Mr. Chairman, both proposals are identical, they are exactly the same. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u214	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u215	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear ministers, dear colleagues! I appeal to you with the request to support our request to increase by 5 million. lv. the budgets of both BNR and BNT. The reasons for this are several, the most important of which is that this year both GNP and BNR do not actually receive any increase, there is no change from their budget for last year, but are essentially entrusted with many new responsibilities, as a result of which we are actually reducing money for both institutions. We reduce the money and we do not allow the new guides to at least try to implement what they have stated, to show their new policy and to develop these two institutions. I think it is not normal to assign BNT and BNR to be that source of objective news, to quality journalism that we expect from them, while tightening a financial noose around their throats. In practice, this will mean tightening the noose around free journalism, because ironically, both BNT and BNR are islands of objective journalism in a sea of not so much free media. And that is why I believe that the state and we, as MPs, have a commitment to this objective journalism and we must help them in these moments. On top of that, at the meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, when we looked at the budgets of both BNT and BNR, both institutions announced that they needed this money and were really dissatisfied with their budgets. But what impressed me personally in the request of the BNR is the request of Theodosius Spasov, Head of the Symphony Orchestra of Radio, who asked to assist the radio, as the average salary in the Symphony Orchestra of BNT is BNT 830 BGN. for an average in the country around 1060. These are the best musicians that we keep on the brink of misery. Here we have two causes and free journalism, and to help these magnificent musicians get their standard of living. I beg you very much to listen to this request. On top of that, there are pragmatic considerations. You will return to the places from which you have been chosen, and you will want someone to objectively reflect what you say. Would you be relieved to know that the journalist who reflects you is prepared to strike tomorrow or live with miserable money? Please support this proposal! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u216	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u217	Dear Mr. Simov, I cannot fail to give you a reply regarding your statement concerning the Symphony Orchestra of the Bulgarian Radio. [[The National Representative Aleksandar Simov spoke with the National Representative from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please listen to me, Mr. Simov, then talk to your partner.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u218	Mr. Simov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u219	Mr. Simov, I would like to address your speech in the Symphony Orchestra section of the Bulgarian Radio. Yeah, you're right. There really are wonderful musicians working there and this is one of the best orchestras. But, Mr. Simov, you socialistically want money here to be given to poor musicians. I, Mr. Simov, suggest that we sit down and develop a concept for the financing of this orchestra, just as all other performing arts are financed through a delegated budget and a subsidy based on viewers looking at them, thereby stimulating the relevant stage art, so that I do not go into detail, to present such a programme, to attract so many viewers that it really has the effect of his work, and the subsidy from the budget to be linked precisely to this. In other words, reform in relation to this orchestra, which I do not know for what reasons has remained aside from the reform that took place a few years ago in all theatres, musical, symphony orchestras, Philharmonics, and today they are pleased with this reform.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u220	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Mr. Simov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u221	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! I'm not going to comment on your political assessments, is it socialist or not, because I don't think small political nagging has a place in such a discussion. If you think this is normal, we can do this, but I think it's a good idea to stay on the basis of professionalism specifically for this amendment. On the other hand, I wonder, there is always talk of helping this orchestra, but so far nothing has been done. That is why I am calling on you: help us now, and this conversation that you are proposing we can have within the next year to help these musicians get their pay. Again, speaking of these musicians, this is a small part of the money we want. The other part is to help journalists from BNR and BNT to fulfil their duties qualitatively and to continue to be that source of objective information that they normally are. We're calling them a lot of obligations right now, a lot of responsibilities, and we're actually cutting their money. Free journalism is expensive because it is the price of democracy. If you think we shouldn't give them money, vote as the party has told you. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u222	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Statements? Here's your speech, Mrs. Nikolova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u223	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Ministers! I am glad that Mr. Simov raised the issue of the budget of BNT and BNR and I am finally glad that it was the colleagues on the left that found out that this is the island of free journalism. I will personally support this proposal. Since we are talking here about double standards and it turns out that here are people with the shortest memory, I would like to remind you that in 2013, when the budget was voted, the budget of the National Television was reduced by 5 million. lv. It was from the BSP that you were in charge. I am pleased that after four years you have come to the conclusion that these media are underfunded and deserve more money so that they can properly fulfil the commitments assigned to them for an impartial information to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u224	Thank you, Mrs. Nikolova. Are there any lines? Mr. Simov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u225	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Nikolova, thank you in turn for bringing this up. Since you mentioned my name, let me tell you something: yes, that budget reduction was a mistake. I don't have the sin to support him. Even then, I wrote an article where I said it was a mistake. Because as a journalist, I always knew journalism should be supported, not attacked. In this sense, we do not accept charges against BSP. We've made our mistakes. Today, and I guarantee you that this will be a quality policy, we will support free speech and journalism. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u226	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Second line? I don't see anyone asking for another line. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We're going to vote on art. 50. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs together with the identical proposal of the MP Stefan Danailov and a group. As Mrs. Stoyanova pointed out, they are completely identical. This is about increasing the budget by 5 million. lv. of the two institutions. They voted 139 MPs: for 31, against 39, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the wording of art. 50 by importer supported by the Commission. Vote 142 MPs: 102, against 38, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u227	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u228	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the discussion. Switching to voting on the text of art. 51 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 145 MPs: 102 against 43 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u229	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. in writing. - I voted negatively on the Article adopted by the importer. 51 because there were some proposals here that were very important because in Appendix 4 and Appendix 5 later. 1 and para. 2, we have proposals that are very substantial. One is to increase the subsidy for passenger transport on non-profit lines in domestic transport and transport in mountain and other areas by 5 million. lv. The more important below is the increase in the subsidy of the National Railway Infrastructure Company, which is the company that takes care of the maintenance of the infrastructure. There destruction or misery is in full effect and this budget does not solve any problem. In a large section of about 70 km, which supports the railway infrastructure, there are, say, 12 employees, only one car to repair. The price of this car is 3000 BGN and the repair to be made is for 5000 BGN. There are no conditions for the normal functioning of NRICs. On the other hand, there are two state-owned enterprises which are a State-owned company For the first one, it's $1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. And for the second one, 450 thousand. lv. If this money is not given, it means that we are closing these businesses, they remain like a decomposed yard and the losses for the state will be much greater than what would now be given. In my opinion, the state will force them into a subsequent period. This subsidy that we stopped them didn't get paid last year, and now we haven't put it on the table, it's actually gonna leave it on corpses. He'll leave the logs to these two businesses and most likely they'll be looted. Again, the losses for the state will be much greater. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u230	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. That was an explanation of a negative vote. Mrs. Stoyanova, we continue with art. 52 on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u231	Under art. 52 there is a proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the table, Pazardzhik district, the following changes are made: 1. Municipality of Strelcha in column 6 the amount is increased by - for the rehabilitation of the municipal road III "8003" Blatnitsa "Smilets" from 23+764 to km 38+700. 2. Pazardzhik Municipality in column 6 the amount is increased by - for the implementation of construction works on the site of the building of a western ring road " The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Milko Nedyalkov and Valentina Naydenova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the table, Lovech region, the following changes shall be made: 1. Municipality of Lovech in column 6 to increase the amount by: a) realization of an investment project with project readiness Lovech 3 752 954 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) realization of an investment project with a project readiness "Rehabilitation of transport bridge over the Osam River, gr. Lovech.. 312 478 lv. 2. Municipality of Troyan in column 6 to increase the amount by a) Stage construction of a third cell of Regional landfill for non-hazardous waste Troyan• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • b) construction of an adjacent infrastructure of a shopping complex• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • c) Reconstruction of intersection "Vasil Levski" and "Vasil Levski" Str. "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" "Minko Radkovski" The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the table, Shumen region, the following changes shall be made: 1. Municipality of Novi Pazar in column 6 the amount is increased by 2. The municipality of Kaspichan 3. Municipality of Shumen in column 6 the amount is increased by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Tishev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the table, Burgas district, Burgas municipality, in column 6, the number - for the main repair and rehabilitation of the municipal road Banevo The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the table, Vratsa region, the following changes shall be made: 1. The municipality of Kozloduy in column 6 the amount of capital expenditure is increased by 655 862 BGN. - for the site "Remont," external renovation and replacement window of the Chitalishte "H." Y. Vaptsarov. Hurlets village, Kozloduy municipality. 2. The municipality of Mysia in column 6 the amount of capital expenditure is increased by 25 000 BGN. - for the site of the Cultural Monument - a part of the Memorial complex - Botev road. 3. Municipality of Oryahovo in column 6 the amount of capital expenditure increased by 2 200 000 BGN. - for the site of the building of a second cell of the Regional depot for non-hazardous TBO. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Nikolai Ivanov, Dencho Boyadzhiev and Nikolay Tsonkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 52th number of the number of the two seven hundred seven hundred forty-fourth eighty-fourth eighty-fourths, the number of the two hundred-fourths, the number of the two hundred-two-two-two-two-two and the number of the two-two-two-two-fourths, the number of the two-fourths, the number of the two-fourths, the number of the two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-fourths, the number of the two-two-two-fourths, the number of the one-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two and The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, Vidin region shall be amended as follows: The municipality of Belogradchik is replaced by The municipality of Combatnitsa is replaced by the number The municipality of Coast Column 4 (total subsidy) is replaced by supplication of BGN 150 000. because of the increase of the minimum wage and the inability of the municipality to cover the increase; column 6 the number For the implementation of the project "Restructuring of the water supply system of the municipality of Bregovo"; Municipality Vidin the number The municipality of Gramada is replaced by the number The municipality of Dimovo is replaced by The municipality of Kula is replaced by the number The municipality of Makresh is replaced by the number The municipality of Novo selo is replaced by the number The municipality of Ruzhintsi is replaced by the number The municipality of Chuprene is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, Sofiyska District is making the following changes: 1. Municipality of Pirdop: - in column 4, the total matching subsidy amount to be increased by 390,7 thousand. lv. $520,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - in column 5 the amount for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads to increase from 66.1 thousand. lv. At 115,000. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - in column 6, the amount of capital expenditure shall be increased by 125.1 thousand. lv. $250,000. lv. 2. Municipality of Gorna Malina: - in column 5 the amount for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads to increase from 108.3 thousand. lv. $150,000. lv. 3. Municipality of Samokov: - in column 5 the amount for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads to increase from 184.4 thousand. lv. $250,000. lv. - in column 6, the amount of capital expenditure to be increased by 874,3 thousand. lv. At 955.0 thousand. lv. 4. Municipality of Mirkovo: - in column 6, the amount of capital expenditure to be increased by 172,7 thousand. lv. At 200,0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Dora Yankova, Kolyo Milev, Lubomir Bonev, Ivan D. Ivanov, Nikola Dinkov, Radoslav Stoychev, Manol Genov, Milko Nedyalkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 52th number of the number of the two seven hundred seven hundred forty-fourth eighty-fourth eighty-fourth eighty-eighty-eighty-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-six-two-two-two-two-six-two-two-two-six-two-two-two-six-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-six-six-one-two-six-six-one-one-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Lalo Kirilov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the table, the district of Sofiyska, is made the following changes: 1. The municipality of Pravetsa in column 4 shall increase the amount of total matching subsidy from 44.7 thousand. lv. At 378,1 thousand. lv. In column 6, the amount of capital expenditure shall be increased by 1 017.1 thousand. lv. At 118,8 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MPs Mustafa Karadaye, Yordan Tsonev, Adelen Shevked, Sergey Kichikov, Halil Letifov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Ahmed Ahmedov, Imren Mehmedova, Burhan Abase, Hasan Ademov, Tanner Ali, Nigiar Jafer: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 52th number of the number of the two seven hundred seven hundred forty-four, eight hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and sixty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and twenty-two hundred and fifty-two hundred and fifty-two hundred and fifty-seven. (It is necessary for the Ministry of Finance to prepare a new table to art. 52 with changes in municipalities, respectively in k. 2, k.Z., k. 4 and k. 5) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v) (v/v/v) (v/v/v) (v/v/v) (v/v/v) (v/v/v) (v/v/v/v) (v/v/v) (v/v) (v/v/v) The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the following amendments and additions are proposed: 1. The following amendments shall be made to the Municipality of Letnitsa: - In column 2, the number 2,773,4 thousand. lv. replace it with the number 3 273.4 thousand. lv. - In column 3, the number 2,249,6,000. lv. replace it with the number 2,749.6 thousand. lv. 2. Municipality of Yablanitsa, the following amendments shall be made: - In column 2, the number 4,690.8 thousand. lv. replace it with the number 5, 190,8 thousand. lv. - In column 3, the number 3.444.4 thousand. lv. replace it with the number 4 244.4 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Ivan Ivanov: "In art. 52, the table, Shumen District, Veliki Preslav Municipality, the following changes are made: 1. In column 2, the number six point 168,0 is replaced by the sum of six, 458,0 is allocated, with the additional amount of 290,0 being allocated as follows: (a) in column 4 the total subsidy rate is increased by 50,0; (b) in column 5 for winter maintenance and snow-cleaning of municipal roads. (c) is column 6 II. The Annex 7 proposal shall also be reflected in art. 52, the table, the row Veliki Preslav, in column 2 The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Yavor Bojankov and Valentin Lambev: Veliko Tarnovo Municipality to provide the necessary funds for the urgent rehabilitation of the tunnels of the northern entrance of Veliko Tarnovo: - Tunnel No 1 - Velchova certification - from km 103+524 to km 103+ 702, length 178 m; - Tunnel No. 2 - Boruna, from km 103+814 to km 103+955, length 141 m. The municipality of Gorna Oryahovitsa The municipality of Pavlikeni Pavlikeni. Municipality of Polski Trambes in column 6 the amount is increased by Municipality of Svishtov in column 6 the amount is increased by The municipality of Suhssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssandssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssswithssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssinsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Veska Nencheva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the following amendments shall be made to the table for Plovdiv region: 1. The municipality of Karlovo Motives: The funds are intended for:... I'm not gonna read the motives. "2." The municipality of Hisarya is replaced by the construction of part of Str. 2nd in the village of Mihiltsi, from axial point 96 to axial point 107, length 353 meters The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the following amendments shall be made to the table in the Stara Zagora District section: 1. of the line Brothers of Daskalova the number "supplier 2 886,5" in column 3 is replaced by "supplier 3 463,8" and the number "supplier 583,4" in column 6 is replaced by "supplier 729,0" in column 6 is replaced by "supplier" in column 6." 2. of row Gurkish the number 3. on the row of the Galab number s. 5 277.5 " in column 3' is replaced by s. 6 333,0 "and the number s..332,4 "in column 6' is replaced by.415,5 ". 4. in row Kazanlak, the number 5. in row Muglige, the number "six-five-six-five-six-eight' is replaced by "six-six-six-eight-eight-six-six-two-six-six-six-six-two-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-two-six-six-six-six-two-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six-six. 6. of row Nikolaevo the number 7. in line Opan, the number s. in column 3 is replaced by s. 1 190,6s. and the number s. s. 303,3s. in column 6 is replaced by s. 379,2s. 8. in row Pavel's bath, the number s. 6350,0s. in column 3 is replaced by.7620,0s. 9. on the row "Daily number 6 827,5 " in column 3 is replaced by..8 193,0 " and the number..660,3 " in column 6 is replaced by.8255,4 " is replaced by. 10. of line Stara Zagora the number 11. in row Chirpan, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Dora Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the table, Smolyan region, the following changes shall be made: (a) C. The amount of capital expenditure is increased by 2 million in column 6 of the municipality of Banite. lv. (b) C. 3.2 Borino Municipality in column 6 the amount of capital expenditure increased by 2 million. lv. c) C. 3.3 Devin Municipality in column 6 the amount of capital expenditure increased by 3 million. lv. (d) C. 3.4 Dospat Municipality in column 6 the capital expenditure amount is increased by 2 million. lv. For municipal roads and streets in and near the village of Kasaka. (e) C. 3.5 Zlatograd Municipality in column 6 the amount of capital expenditure increased by 3 million. lv. For settlements and streets in the villages of Alamovtsi, Dolen, Erma Reka; sewerage of the village of Alamovtsi and water supply of the village of Dolen Stankova mahala. (f) C. The amount of capital expenditure increased by 2 million in column 6 of Madan Municipality. lv. (g) C. The amount of capital expenditure is increased by 3 million in the municipality of Nedelino in column 6. lv. (h) C. 3.8 Rudozem Municipality in column 6 the amount of capital expenditure increased by 3 million. lv. (i) C. 3.9 Municipality of Smolyan are made the following changes: - in column 6, the amount of capital expenditure is increased by 6 million. lv. - in column 5 the amount for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads increased by 700 thousand. lv. (j) c. 3.10 Municipality of Chepelare are made the following changes: - in column 4, the total matching subsidy to be increased by 600 thousand. lv. - in column 5 the amount for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads to increase by 500 thousand. lv. - in column 6, the amount of capital expenditure is increased by 3 million. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Georgi Gokov, Krum Zarkov, Dragomir Stoinev, Georgi Svilenski, Zhelyo Boychev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the following amendments shall be made to the introductory phrase: 1. the number "seven80 714.8" is replaced by "six" 2. the number "supplied 35 228,1" is replaced by "supplied 36 228,1" is replaced by "supplied." 3. the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov: ...................................................................... The amount of the total matching subsidy to be increased by 8,7 million. What is it not clear about? The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 52, the following amendments shall be made to the table in Section District Yambol: - the municipality of Bolyarovo is replaced by..286.5...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u232	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any statements on the text of art. 52? Here you go. MANOL Genov (BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Nankov, Dear colleagues! I would like to stop your attention to an uncomfortable but extremely serious problem for every authority, especially for one that does not sound fanfare throughout the optimistic tone of the 2018 State Budget Project. The executive power in the face of both the current government and the previous mandates with publications of the Political Party GERB, I can firmly say that they refer to the municipalities as a step-by-step and unwanted child. It should be satisfied, grateful as it is when given, not daring to make great claims, but being burdened with unstoppable and unjust hard work, for no payment, of course, should be satisfied. Multiannual promises, strategies from 2009 to now how soon, but unknown when, most of the taxes can remain inside the municipalities where people work, live, pay taxes and taxes. There hasn't been any change so far. The systematic underfinancing of municipalities is not enough, but avalanches increase the activities, which, on the one hand, the state replaces the municipalities themselves, but at the same time makes a small omission.. does not finance them. In this sense, the new budget is in the style of nothing new under the sun, apart from more populism than the necessary funds, and this is not for good. Statistics, fellow Members, are ruthless. One third of public services are provided by nearly 50 thousand employees in the public administration. The remaining two thirds of these services are implemented by only 25,000 employees employed in municipal administrations. This is the situation in the whole country. There is no chance that municipalities will be relieved from somewhere with the new state budget. More than 110 regulations and laws entrust the municipalities with financially unsecured commitments, the implementation of which requires about 300 million. lv. additional funds for the calculation of the mayors and the Association of Municipalities. Imagine what kind of financial magicians mayors have to be in order to be able to deal with these impossible tasks that are constantly involved with them. I would like to point out here that over 60% of municipalities' budgets represent transfers from the central budget, and for some, the current reference points to 65%. Days ago the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria alarmed for nearly 10 million. lv. unpaid by various departments, institutions, agencies and ministries of the state for the use of municipal property. The Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Health, regional administrations and others owe to each other. In the minutes of the National Association of Municipalities on 18 October of this year, on special consultations with the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov regarding the formation of the draft budget for 2018, he has signed under the request of the municipalities for inclusion in the state budget for 2018 at another 105 million. lv. And this, believe me, is absolutely justified because of a critical or extreme lack of funds in their budgets. One hundred and three municipalities are held to function at extremely severe financial risk after relying on their own revenues of less than 25%. Twenty-five percent of their allowance. Imagine how few their incomes are in the background of their needs. At least 50 million. lv. have requested municipalities as a budget supplement for municipal roads. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u233	Mr. Genov, finish the sentence.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u234	I'm graduating. A few sentences. And all the promises in these agreements and protocols that are being made seem quite like childish optimism to me. Someone would ever buy a bike. Colleagues, believe me, the Bulgarian mayors were yours, they were foreign, they were not gullible, and they saw what was happening and the attitude of the state towards them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u235	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Manol Genov? I don't see any line requests. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u236	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms consider with concern the lack of reforms and progress in financial decentralisation and the failure in 2016 of commitments made for municipalities. We strongly object to changes in distribution mechanisms in municipalities without prior coordination with the National Association of Municipalities. This is the way to break art. 9, p. 6 of the European Charter for Local Self-government. Based on the survey conducted among the municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, we found the following problems regarding the budgetary relations of the municipalities and the central budget. Chronic non-financing of state delegated activities. The municipalities are constantly subject to new obligations which are not secured by the state's funding. Such are, for example, in the field of education, the transition to the new funding model of the delegated budget system in education confronts municipalities with a number of challenges related to the formation of classes, the financing of transport costs to district schools. The financing of these activities aggravates municipal budgets and prevents municipalities from providing the necessary funds to maintain the material base of the institutions in the pre-school and school education system. Not sufficient means of winter maintenance to ensure normal conditions for movement within the municipality concerned. In some of the larger municipalities there is an increase in the cost of winter snow cleaning, and in 103 municipalities the levels of 2017 are preserved or there is minimal growth that cannot cover the needs of the respective municipalities. For example, municipalities without growth or with zero growth, Belitsa, Yakoruda, Kirkovo, Kardzhali, Momchilgrad, Sarnitsa, Borino, Dospat, Rudozem Exceptional costs for winter maintenance and snow-cleaning of municipal roads are constantly required, and the amount of the subsidy allocated is insufficient. It is necessary for the State to provide financial support for the gradual improvement of the quality of the municipal road network and the approach to that of the Republican network. There is no means to secure legally defined duties of municipalities such as digitalization of rivers, maintenance of dams and many others. There is a need for an increase in the funds set out in the state budget to compensate for the repeated increase in the minimum wage. In this way, the delays in the standards for state delegated activities which have not been updated since 2010 will be overcome and will force municipalities to finance funds in the Fund for employees who perform auxiliary functions and receive remuneration in the amount of the minimum wage. The representative expenses of the presidents of municipal councils from this year with the adoption of the State Budget Act for 2017 in art. 90 of it is written that the amount of the funds for representative expenses for mayors in municipalities cannot be greater than two per cent of the total annual cost of the maintenance of municipal administration, and the amount of the funds for representative expenses for the municipal council cannot be greater than two per cent of the total annual amount of the costs for the maintenance of municipal councils. Hence comes the difference of the mayor's representation and representation of the municipal council. These funds should be the same as in last year's budgets, or should be allowed to be decided by municipal councils. It's stage trouble. The allocation of funds to municipal administration by municipalities shows that many municipalities are very low compared to previous financial years. The difference between the salaries of the employees employed in the state and those in the municipal administration is increasing. In addition, the salaries of experts in the municipal administration are getting closer and closer to the minimum wage. The low salaries of the staff in the municipal administration leads to continuous turnover of staff, leaks of experts in the municipal administration and problems with finding quality staff. Municipalities cannot motivate and retain the developed expertise. At the same time, municipalities cannot finance the qualification and requalification of municipal employees. Inadequacy of capital expenditure. Some municipalities have zero growth compared to the provision of capital expenditure. Accused expenses in the past... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm finishing, Mr. Chairman... which is not covered in due time and continue to deepen due to legal interest. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are asking you to support all our proposals so that the municipal administration can meet people's expectations. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u237	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any requests. Mr. Popov, you've given a statement. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u238	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A few days ago, traveling to Vidin and looking at national media, I decided to go to the Dobridol Monastery, it is located in the Diocese of Vidin. There's no way to get to him. I arrived there and found a father who had sheltered 7-8 disadvantaged people. This man gave all his salary to these people and begged through the national media good Christian citizens to sponsor with food that could survive this winter. Why do I say and share this difficult experience of mine? Because the Dobridol Monastery, honourable MPs, is an emancipation, it is a concentrated image of the municipalities in Northwestern Bulgaria. This is what is happening in Northwestern Bulgaria, in Vidin and in Vidin region, from which I am a Member of the National Assembly. There's no way out. This is Mr. Nankov, who after a series of our questions eventually found out that the road probably won't be soon enough. After the introduction of tol fees, possibly after 2020 and so on. Although a bridge has been built, and with the efforts of many governments, it is not only that of BSP but of a number of governments. Danube Bridge 2 exists, but there is no way to it. We have proposed in this column concerning municipalities to increase by at least 10% the capital costs of all municipalities, all 11 located in the territory of Vidin district. Because we don't share the municipalities of ours and yours, of comfortable and uncomfortable. These are Bulgarian municipalities where Bulgarian citizens live. But these Bulgarian citizens, like those people who were in the Dobrodol Monastery, are obviously at a disadvantage to the government. Because they are also found in one... 22. What are you guys saying? Let these municipalities help themselves to apply for projects in order to have investments. But at the same time the municipalities lack administrative capacity simply because people did not stay in Vidin. They have no footage to prepare, protect and implement a project. At the same time, the state proudly, arrogantly in no way engages any targeted policy for the development of this region despite the many fairy tales. Numerous stories over the years were not round tables, were not promises, a special strategy for the Northwest. And we see the strategy in the budget. Nothing! Nothing new has happened for the Northwest, in particular for the Vidin region. Therefore we offer this increase at least in capital expenditure, because the main employer in Vidin, in Vidin region are the municipalities. They can have some air to continue to exist this year. Some time ago, when Mr. Borisov was in Vidin at an election event, he almost threatened the people there if you vote for BSP nothing will happen in Vidin, Vidin will sink. Well, the people chose a mayor from GERB. But what happens now? I do not blame the mayor of GERB, but the government's attitude towards Vidin, regardless of whose candidacy the elected mayor is, whose party it is, is identical. This of Mr. Borisov, of his several governments, it is the same.. consecutively, devastating for the Northwest and Vidin. You have adopted the Law for Amendment and Supplement of There is virtually no industry in Vidin and the Northwest. In the last year 200 children were born and over 3,000 people died. In my humble opinion, there the demographic catastrophe, unfortunately, takes irreversible consequences if urgent measures are not taken by the government, by the esteemed leaders for the development of the Northwestern region, of this huge imbalance, of this gap between the regions of Bulgaria. I hope you will support our proposal to increase capital expenditure by 10%, I repeat, to all municipalities in Vidin region. Because if you do not, you will repeat your speech yesterday, you are turning Vidin and Vidin district really into a reserve, in a free territory where there will be no more Bulgarian citizens, Bulgarian politics, I conclude Mr. Chairman, because there people, albeit as a joke, are already saying: why are they not secessing us to Romania or Serbia? Because apparently, as the Dobridol Monastery is forgotten by King, God and Government, as well as Vidin and Vidin region are forgotten by King, God and Government, and this policy continues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u239	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any MPs willing to reply to Mr. Popov's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Lecheva, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u240	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! From the previous ones we found out what are the serious challenges facing the Bulgarian municipalities in front of the small municipalities, the small settlements related to the constant deficit of funds. Yesterday the vicious practice in which Bulgarian municipalities are financed became clear and with which vicious practice huge funds, bypassing the state budget, go to the convenient municipalities. Of course, you rejected our proposal for 100 million yesterday, which was completely within the scope of this budget, which would have answered a large part of the questions now asked, and from now on, the changes requested in the forming budget for 2018. You will surely not deliberately do so to approve our proposals, because you will continue to use this vicious practice. I can also say the following: when you say that there is no money and when you say where these funds will be taken, the most discontatable program is probably the sanitization program. Today, people from Burgas talked about the huge injustice in front of Bulgarian citizens about how the government literally threw 2 billion. lv. And with that $2 billion. lv. only 2% of Bulgarian citizens actually received their tax. This was a huge injustice to Bulgarian citizens. Two billion invested in roads for the whole of Northern Bulgaria would give another economic uplift and other economic opportunities for the whole of Northern Bulgaria. And now you wouldn't be listening to our demands regarding the capital costs of certain municipalities. Of course, it was a convenient program for you to gain influence, upcoming elections. I hope that the next two or three years we will see the results and analyses of the sanitization, because the ugly truth will also be shown in the way the huge funds allocated to all Bulgarian citizens were spent. I will not talk about Sofia, which also swallowed billions of European funds for the whole of Bulgaria and which swallowed tens of millions of leva from the Bulgarian budget, from the State budget, for repairs of newly built facilities and infrastructure. I will tell you about our modest request for a small municipality, such as Polski Trumbes, where the municipal road infrastructure has no other option to finance, except through the Rural Programme and, of course, if we press the green button today and approve the budget for this municipality. The funds we want are within 6 million. lv. for a small municipality such as Polski Trumbes, which has no other option, and are for several road sections: Polski Trambes. There is no Mr. Tsvetanov to ask him where these municipalities are, whether he knows them at all in Veliko Tarnovo region are: Stefan Stambolovo There are nearly 3,000 people living there. And when we talk about depopulation of small municipalities, one of the reasons why Bulgarian citizens are looking for their opportunity to realize and live in large settlements is precisely the lack of suitable and good modern infrastructure. A municipality like Svishtov. Very little talk about the Bulgarian Chitalishtes of Culture and Education, built in the worst times since the development of Bulgaria at the end of the 18th century and at the end of the 19th century, when the economic development of Bulgaria was, of course, far from what it is now. The Bulgarian statesmen then considered it necessary to create these unique structures related to education. Therefore, we ask the MPs to press the green button for 3 million for four Chitalishtes, one of which was founded in 1908 in the village of Bulgarian Slivovo; community center In the 21st century, people don't have plumbing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u241	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u242	(BSP for Bulgaria): Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Now, when we comment on the extremely important share of the 2018 budget related to the financing of our municipalities, where regional problems are actually solved, unfortunately, the presence in the Chamber is extremely unsatisfactory. And I say inadequately, given all the parliamentary groups. I will start by saying that in the 2018 budget the financing of Bulgarian municipalities is extremely worrying. With this budget, the government has not complied in any way with the opinion and desire of mayors who have been struggling for years with the lack of funds to improve the living environment in municipalities. And this year there won't be enough money to repair, build roads, streets, plumbing, kindergartens, schools. Dear governors, just a few days ago, with Order No 260 of 24 November, funds were allocated to the specific municipalities, in which the designated mayors were pleased and other municipalities received no funds. This is the second time this year. I can say that in the municipality and the area from which I am a Member of the National Assembly, funding received only four municipalities. What are these regional differences and what does this differentiated payment of municipalities impose? I'm sure it's not about their problems. There is confusion and I believe that a better justice must be introduced. But my speech will be linked to two extremely urgent infrastructure sites that are desirable to be financed from this budget for our Pazardzhik district. One site is a road that connects the district city with the municipality of Strelcha, a road that has not been improved as infrastructure for 40 years and is extremely unusable. During parliamentary control, at the beginning of the plenary sessions in April, we raised this issue with MP Yordan Mladenov for the construction of this road, but we did not meet an understanding by the Ministry for its realization. The road connecting Pazardzhik with Strelcha, respectively, with Koprivshtitsa, two municipalities that have extremely tourist potential, is not in the priorities of the government, because most likely the mayors who belong to these municipalities are not so pleasant to us. In this regard, I hope that at least the Pazardzhik MPs will support these proposals because they are related to the economic potential of our area. We suggest that about 2 million should be added in column 6. lv. for the construction of the road connecting Pazardzhik with Strelcha, namely the section from Blatnitsa to the town of Blatnitsa Shooter. The other extremely strategic investment project, which should be in the Ministry's eye because it is a priority for the Road Infrastructure Agency from 2014, is the Western ring road of Pazardzhik. This is the municipality, which is seventh largest in Bulgaria; the municipality, which is closest to Plovdiv and Sofia, and this Western ring road connects South to Northern Bulgaria from traffic passing through Pazardzhik. All heavy cargo traffic passes through Pazardzhik's central boulevards and creates a permanent situation for In this regard, I hope that the MPs from all parliamentary groups will look more pragmaticly at the budgets of municipalities and support the proposal to start at least the first stage in building this Western ring road in Pazardzhik, which is about 1 km long, and which, if financed by the budget, will be divided by 5 million. BGN, which we believe will in no way affect the big budget and what the government is betting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u243	Thank you, too. Are there any lines? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. For a statement? Here you go, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u244	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I take the floor and apologize to my colleagues, as I will support the speech of the previous Mrs. Zhekova. It's about the Western ring road of the town. Pazardzhik is a strategic site for Pazardzhik district as a whole. I would also like to invite our colleagues who are from Pazardzhik District, because at all election events this time was promised several times. In 2013, partial funds were allocated, but those funds were later diverted. Pazardzhik is very close to the airport and is close to the highway, on several important corridors, but in recent studies Pazardzhik is already heading towards the Northwest as a lag town, like Vidin, Sliven and other municipalities, which have been brought out in recent studies. Therefore, honourable Members, my appeal is to support this time as a strategic one for the development of the Pazardzhik region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u245	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Replies to Mr. Mladenov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u246	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The proposals we have made for Veliko Tarnovo with colleagues aim to escape from the cliché The opposition wants at all costs the employees do not give. That is why we have targeted such problems, which have been unsolved for decades, which concern people's health and security. I start with the Gorna Oryahovitsa road "Primacymomitsa" and I note here that this problem is placed in the context of the two major infrastructure projects "Hemus highway" and the speedy road Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," because this time, unfortunately "because it is old, passes by the houses of the people, plays the role of the connection of these large settlements, in these important economic and transport centres of North Bulgaria with the new infrastructure projects. At the moment, this connection takes place through a bridge over the Yantra River, which is a canvas and a half. Even if these projects are implemented, they will continue to be carried out in the same way. We have staked them not only because they are in a miserable state, not only because they threaten the lives and health of passersby, but also because they are important for large infrastructure projects. Regarding our other proposal, the two tunnels of the northern entrance in Veliko Tarnovo. Here Mr. Nankov paid attention to me to stop dropping questions because it is intended to be repaired. They are in extremely difficult condition, more than 27 years have not been made, they are flowing, winter is forming ice pieces, they are freezing the road, they have no lighting. And besides that, most importantly, they are dangerous to the lives of passersby, they make an extremely bad image of Veliko Tarnovo as a tourist destination, as they are exactly where all northern tourists from Romania enter the old capital. It is extremely humiliating for us to have the tunnels in such a state. I hope you will accept our proposals, and especially what we have talked about with Minister Nankov the tunnels will also be repaired. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u247	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in, Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u248	Madam President, honourable Members! We're discussing sick issues all over the country, in all the municipalities. There are so many proposals in this part of the draft budget for a reason, as some of the problems have not been solved for decades. It is obvious that investing in infrastructure in the regions is extremely important for all of us, especially for the people who live in these regions, because this infrastructure provides, firstly, quality of life, secondly, a standard that is close to the standard of the capital, and, of course, not least, every government has a constitutional obligation to provide equal rights and opportunities for its population. What I would like to add to the area of Veliko Tarnovo, which my colleagues have also said, further, which in fact our proposals are running out of, is for Pavlikeni Municipality for building a ring road, which does not exist and creates extremely big problems; and for the Municipality of Suh is creating an unresolved problem for three years, a landslide that has closed a road and has cut off three villages from the municipal center. I believe that colleagues from Veliko Tarnovo region, regardless of their political affiliation, will support these proposals as they are for everyone. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u249	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. - What's the line? I can't see. We're moving on to the list. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u250	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I will not make great speeches, although the problems affecting the municipality of Bolyarovo are the same for almost all border small municipalities. In this case, on behalf of the municipal administration, first of all of the residents of the municipality of Bolyarovo, I have one request to you that the total contribution to be increased by 100 thousand. BGN, from 186 to 286 thousand. lv. Neighboring municipalities, which have almost the same number of settlements and territory, receive a ten times greater matching subsidy. At the same time, the Municipality of Bolyarovo has much more limited opportunities for own revenues. I will not list them for what they are, but the truth is that without these additional funds the functioning of the municipality will be difficult. Not that they won't be able to do it, not that the mayor isn't ironic, yet another term has been elected, I'm sure they'll find a way, but we shouldn't bully in this way, Mr. Minister, over these small municipalities. This is a border municipality, on the first line of the Turkish border, I think it is in our common interest that these municipalities receive more serious support, because if someone keeps Bulgaria on the border, it is them, and we do not want them to be depopulated and gradually settled by another type of citizens of the world, if I may say so. However, all this has to do with small steps that are taken each month, every year there is no point in delaying each time. Let's take such a small step and help this community. I hope that it is not deprived of funding just because it is the municipality in which in the last elections BSP achieved the highest result in the country. As it became clear that the government has selectively given funds to mayors from other municipalities, let us show today with the vote that we can still unite a small but important amount to be given to this red municipality. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u251	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Any lines to Mr. Vigenin's statement? I won't. Next statement please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u252	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Minister! With my proposal to amend and supplement art. 52 of the State Budget Act, I propose an increase in the target subsidy for capital expenditure of the municipalities of Karlovo and Hisarya, the number of 1 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the For the municipality of Karlovo, for the municipality of Hisarya Here, however, behind the specific figures that we can all see are the conversations with the people in these two municipalities, as well as with the people from the municipalities throughout the Plovdiv region. But behind these figures are the hopes, expectations of the common people in the settlements as well as their mayors and mayors. In a significant year for Karlovo Municipality the celebration of 180 years since the birth of Vasil Levski and next year we will celebrate the great Bulgarian revolutionary Hristo Botev and 140 years of our Liberation in the city of Klisura, I will only mark the important things that people shared with me. Here we are talking about repairs from ordinary streets, which start from the center of the settlement to the church or to the cemetery park, and go through a long, wide road in the town of Kalofer, as well as repair, cleaning and service of the monument of Apriltsi in the locality of Zli dol. in the town of Klisura, repair of playgrounds in Banya, at sports playgrounds and all that we, the people's representatives, have seen back in time. I'd like to make a reference to today's beautiful Christian holiday, Andreevden. The day the light swells with a begging grain. I have one great hope and this is the hope of the people of the municipality of Karlovo and in the municipality of Hisarya that these funds will be allocated. I know that colleagues from Plovdiv region will support this request, but only the support of colleagues from all parties in Plovdiv area will not be enough. I call on the rest of my fellow Members so that people can get what they deserve. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u253	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u254	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I will not waste time, I will only present our proposal with colleague Dragomir Stoynev for the Stara Zagora region. The proposals came from the talks with six of the mayors of the 11 municipalities and from the reception halls we make with him and the other two MPs, where people share local problems. This is an increase of 20% for all municipalities in the third column. Here are the salaries of the people from the administration, especially social workers, because the social institutions are towards the municipalities. There, the salaries for the expert positions, as I told you, for the entire Social Ministry, and the positions of the specialists are close to those of the unskilled staff whose salaries grow with the increase of the minimum wage, while others do not grow at such a rate. Also 20% is the target subsidy for capital expenditure. The Minister says that in the Stara Zagora region, and I agree with it, basically, the roads are in a slightly better state than the other areas, but there is a lot to be desired there as well. I can think of three ways in the municipality of Stara Zagora, which need repair, and consider in other smaller municipalities what this is about. And something very interesting that the municipality of Pavel Banya offers in a conversation with the mayor, with the President of the Municipal Council, even have a decision of the Municipal Council in this direction: it needs about 1.5 million. for the construction of the Centre for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Training of Paralympics from the National Athletics and Other Paralympics and Athletes with Disabilities. There's no center like this anywhere in the Balkans. It can be used by athletes with such problems, with disabilities from neighbouring countries. As an idea, it's very good. I discussed it with the Minister of Youth and Sports. He does not mind, as long as funds are provided, even admired, welcomes the establishment of such a centre. I'm not wasting any more time. I think it's worth doing. I know that the money is already distributed by different budget items for municipalities is what is written. But I think that instead of distributing funds at the last minute by the decree of the Council of Ministers, with the latest decree of the Council of Ministers somewhere around 60 million; instead of separating municipalities whose mayors are not our political ones, or for some other reason they are not our municipalities, from the others; so 35 and 35, 70 municipalities with 60 and several million; better now everyone put the cards on the table, see where the need for infrastructure is, where for capital expenditures, where the subsidy of state delegated activities, where for winter cleaning, and distribute them more adequately and fairly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u255	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u256	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! At the beginning I want to declare that I am not in the absence of a conflict of interest, as I will not lobby for a red mayor or a red municipality, such as the fairy tales are heard, but I will talk about the municipality of Burgas. Secondly, I would like to highlight the attention of colleagues on the right side of the Chamber and, more precisely, of colleagues from GERB. Take a look at this, it is about the Vice-President of GERB for Tsvetan Tsvetanov's colleague, the municipality he manages. That, of course, in the circle of the joke. The offer I made to increase the capital transfer... [[Heckling]] Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov. The proposal I have made is to increase the capital transfer from the Republican budget to the budget of the municipality of Burgas by 1 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. 5 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Why? The truth is that the infrastructure funds go mainly to the district centres, and to the central part of the district centres. For the final neighborhoods, for the constituent settlements, and for the municipal roads, there is no money available to them and they are chronically unfinished. And people live there too! I've even set an example with the Banevo road. I have to tell you that every year, he spends a funny amount of money and it's renovated at 100, 200, 300 meters a year. Therefore, in the proposal I have made, it is commented with colleagues from GERB Burgas. I hope that they will support it, and I hope that you will support it, too, so that not only this time, but others, will be paid attention. If you are worried that the money will go somewhere else, not according to purpose, we need to clarify the following: the money from the Republican budget, which was prepared by Mr. Goranov, Finance Minister of GERB, will go to the municipal budget of Burgas, will be distributed and ultimately voted by the municipal councilors of Burgas, where GERB also has a majority. So this should not be an obstacle to supporting this proposal either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u257	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u258	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Nankov, Dear colleagues! By the way, Mr. Nankov, to congratulate you on the fact that although we are the only one left in today's meeting, a member of the government will be expected to come along! Colleagues, we are making two proposals with my esteemed colleague Milko Nedyalkov. The first proposal, under heading 754-04-130, concerns a proposal to amend and supplement art. 52, proposing an increase in the target subsidy for capital expenditure for two municipalities. First, the municipality of Lovech by 4 million. 65,000. 432 BGN, as this money is intended for an investment project, with a design ready reconstruction of the water supply network of zh.k. "Mladost" "Lovech." The second, investment project with project readiness rehabilitation of transport bridge over the Osam River Lovech. The second is for the Municipality of Troyan worth 1 million. $250,000. lv. for the implementation of the following: 1. Stage construction of the third cell of the regional landfill for non-hazardous waste Troyan Apriltsi. 2. Construction of an adjoining infrastructure of the commercial complex "Little market" under the conditions of co-financing by the municipality. 3. Restoration of road intersection. "Vasil Levski" and "Vasil Levski" Str. "Minko Radkowski." Our second proposal is No 754-04-154 and concerns the budgets of the municipalities of Letnitsa and Jablanica. In the form of subsidies to be increased by a total of 1 million. BGN, by changing the overall subsidies of the activities delegated by the State in column 2 and 3 by 500 thousand. lv. This increase we believe is quite possible when we increase the collection of tax revenue. I expect you Members of Parliament to support our proposal and even if you do not, I expect the other three Members of Parliament from the 11th Lovech Multi-mandated Region. Unfortunately, only one of us sees from here, and we, respectively, from the BSP for Bulgaria. However, we hope that you will understand the needs of this end and we are proud to put the questions in this budget. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u259	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u260	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I join the proposals made by the parliamentary groups so far to increase the funds for municipal roads, to increase the funds for winter maintenance, to the matching subsidy of the poorest municipalities, which is a small amount and we could make such an attitude towards them, and to the overall subsidy for the activities delegated by the State. I believe that this will be an attitude towards the municipalities, because perhaps all of us, perhaps 80% of this room, were municipalists, or councillors, or mayors. We know that when there is development in the mosaic of Bulgarian municipalities, the whole country develops and it also changes the quality of life. I will draw your attention to the policies I have developed so far, discussing on the Smolenski area budget, with the clear awareness that I will not make political dividends, but with the clear awareness that I will outline regional problems that need support and funding. After all, this is also a complex area of Constitution, as the pre-speakers shared, everyone has the right to receive a quality, municipal and public service. Dear Members of Parliament, Mr. Minister, you know that in Smolyan region, this is the third district after Kardzhali and Targovishte with the most settlements In parallel to this, the municipal road infrastructure is much larger, much heavier to finance and much more newer, given the way settlements are developed in the Rhodopes. Here I will draw your attention to the funds of the municipalities, which are envisaged as capital funds, I tried to break the funds if 1 million were given to Smolyan Municipality. £700. for capital, there are 254 km of road infrastructure, of which 134 municipal roads and streets. That's $7,000. lv. per kilometer, or per square meter.. 1 BGN. and 16 C.E. You realize that for 1 lv. and 16 C.E. per square meter, this is actually the view and attitude towards a better positioned community, and imagine funding in Borino, funding in the Rudozem area, for the Banite, what it represents as a financial resource to have quality of life, to have opportunities and entrepreneurship. Therefore, the report made by the President of the Budget Committee in my proposal for all municipalities is aimed at financing municipal roads to the settlements, as well as financing municipal roads in the settlements. I'll give an example of Yagodina, Borino municipality. A beautiful village, with great tourist potential, with tourists visiting the village, internal infrastructure, the internal road network does not actually have asphalt. In parallel, I will draw your attention to the fact that there are three projects in my proposal that are related to the water supply of small settlements. Here I will refer to the municipality of Chepelare. The municipality of Chepelare as opportunities applied for all possible projects, even in rural areas, for water supply of Malevo, Orehovo, Hvoyna and Pavelsko. There is a programme under all the rules of the European Union and because of the smaller number of residents and equivalents, they cannot be ranked according to the European criterion. According to the Water Association's plan, there is no financial resource, and that means that if you live in these settlements after 2021, the Association's business plan could possibly result in some financial resource. That's why... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u261	... I conclude, Mr. Chairman, my proposals are: for roads in the settlements in the Rhodopes, for the inter-communal road network and to the settlements, and for the water supply of the small settlements. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u262	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there lines? I won't. Statements. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u263	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! The proposals under art. 52 for the region of Vratsa, which we are doing with my colleague Ivan Genov, are for solving important local issues which are not within the power of three of the municipalities in the district of Kozloduy, Oryahovo and Miziya. The total amount of the increase in the target capital costs for these municipalities, which we are proposing, is 2 million. Eight hundred and 862 BGN, and my argument for this is as follows: Firstly, the situation in the regional landfill for non-hazardous waste in Oryahovo is extremely severe. It deposes the waste of seven municipalities and several commercial companies, including the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy." Currently, only cell one of the depot with an area of about 17 decares is operated and it has a full capacity. Operator Oryahovo Municipality has prepared an updated project for the construction of cell two, but it has stopped as early as 2009, due to lack of funding. There are still important activities in the completion of box two for which funding of around 2 million is needed. 200,000. lv. Chitalishte "Nikola Yonkov Vaptsarov" in the village of Hurlets, Kozloduy Municipality is one of the important cultural centers in the municipality and its building is in a very difficult state, especially the visual one. For years the local management in the village and in the municipality seek support and funding for the building. The third problem for which we are looking for a solution and funding, through this proposal, is for reconstruction of part of the panoramic complex of Botev, which is on the territory of the municipality of Miziya, for reconstruction of the cultural monument. I am sure that I know that colleagues from Vratsa district, from other parliamentary political parties, will support this proposal. Hopefully we will get even more support and these municipalities from Vratsa region will receive this additional funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u264	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there lines? There are no lines. Next statement. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u265	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! We're in the middle of a discussion on art. 52, a series concerning the Bulgarian municipalities. I cannot remain indifferent to the needs and needs of the area in which I am elected to Shumen District, of course. The discussions that have been taking place since yesterday lead in one direction that the need for investment in the regions is largely greater than what the state budget is proposing. Yesterday you discussed here on this platform, we opened to the Bulgarian citizens what is the reality that in art. 1 of the budget, in its expenditure part, remains a trend for an opaque, unclear funding of municipalities of government choice, without a clear regulation in what direction and why this money is spent. Not by accident, because our proposal was not adopted yesterday, we are now forced to propose solutions to precisely these sectoral problems that need to be resolved. I suggest a few things here to open a clamp, we really don't have a double standard. We offer both for municipalities of BSP and for municipalities of GERB and for all other municipalities, because in these municipalities live citizens. For example, I have met with the citizens of Novi Pazar municipality and have learned from the people that there is an urgent need for renovation, gasification of polyclinics in Novi Pazar in the amount of a million and a half, which in the state budget are not scheduled, the municipality is not given. The municipality of Kaspichan does not need funds for additional supply of the district of Kalugeritsa and for the high area of Kaspichan in the amount of 350 thousand. BGN, for the construction of a waste water treatment plant in the town of Kaspichan, amounting to 6 million. lv. This is a circumstance that prevents the municipality from being able to develop its capacity, to improve the quality of the water supply. Let's not get into situations like they were this summer to go to the director of the water and to collect funds from the citizens, Mr. Minister, because you are here to try to raise funds from the citizens to repair the water supply, something that contradicts any logic and the contract that is signed between the water company and the users of the water service. An embarrassing circumstance! I think you should take action and correct this injustice. And the Shumen municipality. Our offer is in column 6, to increase the amount by 13 million. What are our motives? The funds are needed to build a drinking water treatment plant and to build a home for elderly people. But let them enter the drinking water treatment plant. It is true, a discussion is being held, there are proposals in the so-called "preliminary researches" for the Operational Programme "Environment" to be financed this way. Unfortunately, the company is in extremely difficult condition and I am convinced that there will be no possibility to finance this project. Because the management, which is currently there, leads the company to collapse. The municipality of Shumen and Shumen district has the second highest water price since last month. With one, one, only motive to cover the losses that the management of this company is piling up. And again, I appeal to Mr. Minister to take decisive measures, because the next step is to give this thing to the prosecution, and to build a home for elderly people. This money was allocated by the bad Oresharski and was taken from Mr. Borisov's next office. Now I appeal for them to be returned because these people have nowhere to stay. In extremely bad condition is the current nursing home. And that's only $1 million. lv.! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 52 for Great Preslav, I offer several things. This is the only municipality of BSP in the region and I really appeal: if you do not display double standards, gentlemen in charge, to support this proposal and to finance the municipality of Veliki Preslav in a common subsidy, for winter cleaning, for capital expenditure and especially for the hospital. Yesterday in the funds needed for municipal hospitals, you did not support these costs! Now we are forced into separate proposals to ask for funds for municipal hospitals. This is the only fully functioning municipal hospital in the region. The one and only! In Novi Pazar it was closed by your representative, now fighting with claws and teeth to close the noisy. [[Noise and lines.]] It's a district hospital, but the director who shut down the new market hospital is now in a successful fight to close down the district hospital as well. We therefore appeal for funds to be allocated to Novi Pazar in order to remain the only functioning hospital in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u266	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u267	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I take the floor in relation to my proposals and to the proposals of my colleagues from Sofia-district for amendments to the Budget Bill. I do not intend to repeat what we have written as a proposal, I will just say a few details about our area and why you do not accept our proposals. Sofia district is a specific area, without a district centre, with 22 municipalities, but still 20% of the road infrastructure is located in its territory: two highways and the sub-Balkan road. Only on the territory of the Srednogorje is made up 7% of gross domestic product and one third of the insurance revenue in the budget. And yet, our proposals for the mayors of the district, which are worth only 600,000. BGN, not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u268	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? There are no lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u269	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, it has not been clear from your statement what damage has been caused to municipalities in the district of Sofia by the lack of adequate policy by the government in relation to municipalities. Again, I appeal: indeed you are here to present these demands, to understand in the end, this harmful policy that is leading the government at the moment, to distribute a piece without clear criteria regarding municipalities. Yesterday, I set an example, and now I'm going to repeat it again. The municipality of Shumen was given, in the last decision of the Council of Ministers, 500 thousand. lv. for a shambles. For a shoved, as long as people don't have anything to drink water from! [[Noise and lines from OP.]] And I am sure that in your regions, in your region, there are similar things in your municipalities. We therefore propose these proposals so that this wicked practice disappears. People can't have nothing to drink, pay the most expensive water and 500,000. lv. to give up for a shambles?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u270	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Do you refuse the douche? You refuse. Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches? Let's move on to the vote. We begin by voting on the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 162 MPs: 63 against 73, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is the MP Milko Nedyalkov and Valentina Naydenova. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 176 MPs: 71, against 76, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 175 MPs: 64, against 71, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. Revoting? Please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u271	I suggest a re-vote. Three colleagues failed to vote on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u272	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. We are revising the proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 182 MPs: for 71, against 79, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Nikolai Tishev. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 177 MPs: for 78, against 70, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 184 MPs: 79, against 64, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MP Nikolai Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 71, against 62, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of MPs Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 78, against 68, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Lalo Kirilov and Radoslav Stoychev. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 179 MPs: 72 against 71, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 170 MPs: for 67, against 64, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Lalo Kirilov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 182 MPs: 71 against 73, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 187 MPs: 75 against 85, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. We vote. Vote 187 MPs: 79, against 73, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 183 MPs: for 71, against 72, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Yavor Bojankov and Valentin Lambev. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 184 MPs: for 73, against 68, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Veska Nencheva. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 184 MPs: 80 against 70, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the proposal of the MPs Georgi Gokov and Dragomir Stoinev. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 183 MPs: 78, against 70, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 182 MPs: 72 against 62, abstention 48. It's not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: 70 against 81, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal we will vote on is the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Please vote. They voted 188 MPs: 60, against 29, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. Next offer... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u273	Dear Mr. Chairman! I believe that when voting proposals are announced, it is not appropriate to specify whether or not the Commission supports them. [[Strong noise, lines and calls from GERB.]] Instead of calling, this has already been read when this proposal is presented, so when we get to a vote, it is enough to announce which proposal it is and not to point the MPs in what direction to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u274	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin, but this has also been the case so far, and the Rules do not prohibit us from communicating details of the proposals. The next proposal we are voting on is from the MP Christian Vigenin. The Commission does not support Mr Vigenin's proposal. [[Radio.]] Please vote. Vote 190 MPs: 81, against 77, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 52, which the Commission supports. Vote 189 MPs: 115, against 73, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Ms. Stoyanova, before I give you the floor, a communication on parliamentary control on 1 December 2017: Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin; Svetla Bachvarova; and Anelia Klisarova. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer eight questions from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; Vasil Antonov; Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; Krum Zarkov; Valentin Lambev; Lubomir Bonev; Todor Bachev; and Stefan Burgev. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Vasil Antonov. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Jeleva and Kristina Sidorova; and Georgi Gokov two questions. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Tasko Ermenkov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; and to two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; Stoyan Mirchev and Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; and to a question with written answer from the MPs Yavor Bojankov and Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question by the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; and to a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - one question and one question from the MP Alexander Paunov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate; and the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Negative vote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u275	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! I voted against the text proposed in the budget because, in my opinion, the financial resources provided for the municipalities in Vidin are extremely insufficient to carry out their functions. My understanding is that municipalities are closest to people's problems, and they are also a continuation of state policy at the local level. Such funding must be provided so that they can function normally, solve people's problems, and this is not the case with the current budget, and that is why I voted against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u276	Thank you. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor to present the following texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u277	The following texts are Articles 53 to 58, including by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 53 to 58 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u278	You have the floor for speeches on the texts presented by Articles 53 to 58 inclusive. There are no speeches. We vote Articles 53 to 58 inclusive. They voted 147 MPs: for 100, against 47, no abstentions. The texts of Articles 53 to 58, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u279	Under art. 59 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and group: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 59 after the word "food', the number "of holiday' is added and the number "of food' is replaced by "of 400'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u280	Statements? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u281	Where are we going to rest, Gökov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u282	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Voucher nutrition enables Bulgarian employers to offer additional incentive for their employees. It creates additional conditions for a real increase in income from labor. At the same time, it is beneficial for both employers and employees. It is therefore good that an increase of 40 million is envisaged in the 2018 voucher quota and the figure reached only a year ago of 320 million. But is that enough? I'm asking all of you a question and you'll understand further why I'm asking this question. A major problem faced by operators so far, and employers, workers and employees, in general users, is the insufficient total quota. In 2015, the deficit was 20 million. BGN, for 2016 there is a shortage again and it is about 60 million. lv. For 2017, where the allocated funds, the voucher quota is 280 million, hardly any different picture, I can't tell how much the shortage is. The chronic shortage of quotas has been since 2010 and this has led to the tide of the system. Despite this tide from the system, about 400,000 workers and employees use this acquisition annually. The voucher system creates consumption and higher revenues in the state budget, and insufficient quotas lead to less available income and a reduction in the purchasing power of workers. For many employers who want to give social benefits, it is a problem because they cannot comply with the commitments made to workers and their trade unions. I am convinced that the voucher feeding system is not a budget problem, because I believe that even indirectly supports it by increasing the trade speed, and thereby helping the development of a fisca. In other words, the interest and demand are high and definitely exceed the supply. It is therefore necessary to liberalise the market of food vouchers under art. No. 209, para. 7 of the Law on Corporate Income Tax by building an indicative methodology or mechanism for determining this quota and as a next step its dropping. Speaking of liberalisation, I am referring to a more serious increase in the annual quota for providing food vouchers and at the same time increasing its scope not only for food, but also for rest. In my opinion, we will also stimulate the tourism business, so support our proposal to increase the quota to 240 million. lv. At this point, an initial increase in such a degree of fissure loss would be negligible. If there is one, it will be only initially, and the effect will be significant. Support it also because of experts' claim that the system exists in Bulgaria since 2004, but Bulgaria remains the only country in which the quota mechanism is still applied. In other European countries, there is no such quota mechanism and it is market-based. Thank you for your attention. And where they're going to rest, he'll explain better to you the colleague after me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u283	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any lines to the statement? You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u284	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Gokov, you missed in your speech to say the whole volume of stakeholders who will be satisfied with the support of this measure. The small and medium-sized tourism business in Bulgaria will be over-privileged to this measure because, firstly, we will direct a large part of the flow of tourists who instead of going to neighbouring Greece and Turkey for example, can prefer to come and use their vouchers in Bulgaria, to relax in Bulgarian small hotels and spend their money in Bulgaria. So this is a significant contribution to small and medium-sized tourism businesses. The other thing we propose with this measure is the right to choose. You know that food vouchers apply primarily to large retail chains, and thus we give a choice for a Bulgarian worker to choose whether to go and buy food in the large retail chain, or to make use of his vouchers in a Bulgarian hotel. Colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal because it is really useful for the Bulgarian business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u285	Thank you. Mr. Veselinov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u286	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Gokov, honourable colleagues! I treat good intentions well. In my opinion, this holiday voucher will create serious opportunities to abuse workers' right to rest. It will create an opportunity to rotate these vouchers between the employer and the employer's relatives companies, for example, in relation to this holiday. In general, it is much better for the worker to get his money and operate with them than forging it in any way to fly in a designated place by the employer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u287	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Another line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u288	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! I agree with everything my colleague said. It is part of our concept of increasing the amount for vouchers. He did it in addition to speaking. To Mr. Veselinov. That's a good idea. If each time we are worried about the abuse, there is a Bulgarian saying: Control could be carried out very easily here. Increased control, which is easy to carry out, would prevent everything you say, because when you notice a more serious turnover between companies, immediately the control authorities can do a check and this can be stopped. We had contacts last year with two or three French companies, vouchers operators on the Bulgarian market, together with the Bulgarians came to the National Assembly. We met with them, and I became deeply acquainted with their problems as vouchers operators. I know from the unions about the low quotas and the shortage of vouchers by the third quarter and by the end of the year when they end. The quota in other countries is gone at all. People can do it with good control, and we can't. I know there's no money in the budget for this, but we need to talk about this in order for the quota to fall and any employer who wants to use vouchers to be able to do it freely and calmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u289	No tax profit!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u290	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 36, against 66, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 59, supported by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 87, against 38, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u291	Under art. 60 has a proposal of Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 60 the following changes are made: the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u292	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs under art. 60. They voted 129 MPs: 37 against 72, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 60, supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: for 96, against 33, no abstentions. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u293	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u294	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 61, supported by the Commission. Vote 131 MPs: 124 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u295	Under art. 62 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs in art. 62 the number sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssss,sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 62.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u296	Are there any speeches? I won't. I vote on Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 36, against 76, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the text of the importer under art. 62, supported by the Commission. Vote 137 MPs: 100 against 36, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u297	Under art. 63 has a proposal of Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 63 para. 9 is amended as follows: The amount of one-off aid for the birth of a live child under art. 6, para. 1 of the Family Aids Act for children for 2018 is as follows: for first child - 1000 BGN, for second child - 2000 BGN, for third child - 3000 BGN, for fourth and each next The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u298	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the proposal of MP Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 48 against 43 abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 63, supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 96 against 37, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u299	Under art. 64 The Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u300	Statements? I won't. Vote art. 64 according to the text of an importer supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: for 101, against 41, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u301	Under art. 65 has a proposal of the MPs Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. For this reason, the text proposed by the Commission as an version of art. 65, not relevant and cannot be put to the vote. The text for art. is to be put to the vote. 65 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u302	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, it is good that my colleagues from Volja. They have withdrawn this proposal, as I consider it an absolute provocation. The way the financing of political parties is regulated is in the Law on Political Parties. Obviously, we have a problem that we need to have this conversation, but the point of this conversation is there. You know the opinion and political position of BSP that we should answer these questions and expectations among Bulgarian citizens who want to know exactly what the money is spent on from the budget for political parties............................................................................. At the same time, we are determined to preserve this European funding model, in which this is done by the state budget. You know that if this is interrupted, the alternative path will be to fall into different forms of dependence. It is a good thing that colleagues from the Volja....have withdrawn this proposal. Otherwise, we would have made a very unpleasant precedent for trying to distribute the state subsidy by service or double arsin. We are ready to have this political conversation.. how the control over the funds provided by the state budget for political parties should be carried out, but the place for this is not in the state budget and we cannot in art. 65 of the State Budget Act to rearrange this type of relationship for the method of financing and control of the funds given to political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u304	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Any other speeches? None I shall put to the vote art. 65 according to the importer's text. Vote 148 MPs: 103, against 8, abstention 37. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u305	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 66 to 78 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u306	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I vote on Articles 66 to 78, including the Commission supports the text of the importer. Vote 151 MPs: for 100, against 51, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u307	Under art. 79 has a proposal of the MP Dora Yankova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 79 drops the text of the municipalities. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 79.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u308	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 153 MPs: 49, against 78, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Would you like a re-vote? We are revising the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova, which the Commission does not support. They voted 153 MPs: 49, against 80, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the text of the importer under art. 79, which the Commission supports. Vote 157 MPs: 106 against 51, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u309	Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 79a: Art. 79a. The commitments of budgetary organisations to municipalities under the Local Taxes and Fees Act to be paid by 31 December 2018 The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u310	Statements? I won't. We're putting an end to this debate. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to create art. 79a, which the Commission does not support. Vote 155 MPs: 45 against 77, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u311	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 81. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 82.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u312	Statements? I won't. We vote on Articles 80, 81 and 82 of the text of the importer, which the Commission supports. Vote 157 MPs: for 102, against 55, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u313	Under art. 83 there is a proposal of the MPs Nikolai Ivanov, Dencho Boyadzhiev, Nikolay Tsonkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Reg. 83 3, after the words "loans from the central budget" to be added the words "loans for loans taken by the Local Governments Fund in Bulgaria. The Commission does not support the proposal. The proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs is absolutely identical to what I read just now, which the Commission also does not support. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 83.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u314	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs and the proposal of the MP Nikolai Ivanov and a group of MPs, which is identical to the Commission does not support the proposals. Vote 162 MPs: 56 against 75, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 83 which is supported by the Commission. They voted 159 MPs: for 106, against 53, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u315	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as Articles 84 to 87 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u316	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as Articles 84 to 87, including those supported by the Commission. Vote 156 MPs: for 104, against 52, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u317	Under art. 88 has a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The proposal has been made. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 88: Art. 88. (1) The amount of representative expenditure for the mayors of the municipalities shall not be greater than 2 per cent of the total annual cost of the maintenance for the activity. (2) The amount of the funds for representative expenses for the municipal councils shall not be greater than 1 percent of the total annual cost of maintenance for the activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u318	Statements? I won't. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 88 in the version of the Commission. Vote 166 MPs: 121 against 45 abstentions. Article 88 has been adopted in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u319	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u320	Statements under art. 89? I won't. I'm calling off the debate. I shall put to the vote art. 89 by importer. Vote 167 MPs: 110 against 57 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u321	Under art. 90 has a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90, as in para. 4 is amended as follows: The State or municipal health care institutions shall apply art. 105 of the Medical Services Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u322	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 90 together with the Commission's proposal for its amendment to the report. Vote 162 MPs: for 104, against 58, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u323	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 91 to 93 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u324	Statements? I won't. I vote on Articles 91, 92 and 93 including the Commission supports the text of the importer. They voted 164 MPs: for 111, against 53, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u325	Under art. 94 there is a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs to drop Article 94. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 94 the following changes shall be made: Art. 94 (1) For the proceeds of the one-off concession payment under the concession contract of the Civil Airport for Public Use Sofia. 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the State Fund Act on guaranteeing the sustainability of the state pension system does not apply. (2) The funds received from the one-off concession payment under the concession contract of the Civil Airport for Public Use Sofia shall be used to finance railway transport policy, to finance railway undertakings and to build railway and related infrastructure. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u326	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u327	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the proposal we are making in art. 94, is related to possible concession fees from Sofia Airport. Allinei 1 and 2 of art. 94 Mrs. Stoyanova read them and I won't repeat them. The aim of our proposal is for the revenues in question from the concession to be fairly spent again in the field of transport and for solving problems in rail transport. After that, in art. 94a, para. 1, 2 and 3 we have mentioned exactly how to distribute these funds: - to prevent and restore damage from the crash in Hitrino there are 114 million and up; - the means of incentives according to art. 7 of the Treaty with the State is 10 million; - in para. For the grant of a grant to Holding BDZ, more than 223 million. This will solve a large part of the problems both in BDZ and in the Railway Transport Sector, so I really hope you will support the money that will come from the Transport Sector to remain in the Transport Sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u328	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u329	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, to our attention is art. 94, which suggests that the money from a possible future concession at Sofia Airport should not go to the Silver Fund, as it is by law, but to remain available in the budget. I would like to remind you that this idea, I think, for the second or third year, is available in the state budget. The concession of Sofia Airport, thank God, does not happen, but more importantly it is to state the position of our parliamentary group whether or not Sofia Airport should be concessiond at all. We categorically argue that we have stated it more than once, we continue to argue that Sofia Airport should not, can not and is dangerous for Bulgaria to be concessionated. Sofia Airport is a strategic site of the Bulgarian national infrastructure, an object of national importance, an object built, made, with terminals, with tracks and will be rented, hidden in the form of a concession, to someone's company that will only calculate profits and possibly some of these profits will enter the form of concession fee in the budget. None of us in this Chamber has the right to deprive the Bulgarian citizens of this money, which by law should go to the Pension Fund, yet I say, if, God forbid, this concession happens, but even more so, none of us has the right in this Chamber to put Sofia Airport on concession, because it is a working enterprise, Sofia Airport is an undertaking that in recent years goes in an ascending trend in terms of passengers, profits, cargo and there is no way we here with you, collected 240 MPs, with one vote on art. 94 let's say that the state splits with this enterprise. Once again, the position of our parliamentary group is that Sofia Airport should remain state property, should not be concessionated and all the other subsequent proposals that the money should not go to the Silver Fund or the money should go to support BDZ or other state enterprises are inappropriate. Let us not make hostages to a large state enterprise, BDZ, to another large state enterprise, such as Sofia Airport. When we talk about BDZ, I really expect that Minister Goranov is not here, by the way he is very much running away from this topic, but I expect Minister Goranov to clearly and categorically say and support the efforts of the entire Transport Commission, which unanimously said that he would provide all the support necessary for BDZ, as long as Mr. Goranov, who is absent at this time, is willing to grant the necessary funds from the budget. There are them, there can be no surplus in billions not 100 or 200 million per year to buy new trains, new trains and modernization of Bulgarian State Railways. The ugliest and most dangerous thing we do is make 2,200 people working at Sofia Airport, hostages of 2,200 people working at the Bulgarian State Railways. It's not right, it's not moral, it's not honorable of us. Let anyone who has other interests outside the real, state interests state them, but hide behind the fact that we will save one enterprise at the expense of another is not honorable. Colleagues, I urge you not to support art. 94. Then you have the opportunity, if by any chance someone goes wrong in this vote, to support our proposal, which is...................... and I hope in one of these two votes, if it is true, to save and be the people who will protect Sofia Airport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u330	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here's a line for you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u331	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Svilenski, you have stated that you hope that Sofia Airport will not be granted a concession this time too. Unfortunately for me, I must disprove you, given the recent vote on the Law on concessions and the provisions that were bet there by the ruling majority, precisely in order to give the concession to Sofia Airport. In the transitional and final provisions of this law regarding Vocacio Legis, with the entry into force of the law itself, there was one question: why should this law enter into force faster? In order to be able to concessionate Sofia Airport. The debate became a Legal Commission, where representatives of the ruling majority said that even under the old law they also agreed that Sofia Airport would be concessionated. The question is that it should be conceited. You didn't ask the question to the colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" because their chairman Mr. Siderov here was tearing up his shirts for other concessions that Bulgaria has given away its wealth, exported them, but here I am interested in what their position will be now and how it will be changed, most likely. Perhaps you should have asked them in your speech how they would vote on this proposal? Or now, times, oh, morals, or interest shakes the fez. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u332	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u333	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilenski, I share your concern for Sofia Airport, but let's assume that such a concession and what Mr. Popov said happened, the next issue that stands on the agenda is: what happens to the funds from this concession will we protect the interest of another state-owned company in which, as you say, more than 2200 Bulgarian citizens are working, or will this money from the concession go for renovation? Which would be another major crime against rail transport. Today, we did not support the proposed changes in the rail transport budget, which would give him a breath of air. And the catastrophes, the dangerous areas that are constantly causing problems, are on the agenda. We need to find an option from somewhere. I share this to protect the national interest, but from now on, if this does not happen, in this budget, which will act next year, we must order what happens if this happens. If we don't, we can't track those funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u334	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u335	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Popov, I'm really trying to be as diplomatic as possible. You know, I can be a lot sharper and tell every parliamentary group how it worked over the years and what the position was, but that's not the point. The aim is really to make sure that this company does not concessionate. Yes, I know the position of the United Patriarchs. We in the previous parliament, together with them, raised the question and opposed the concession. I know their position. I hope they continue to be consistent now, because in politics, really, the most important thing is to be consistent. It doesn't matter if you're a ruling or opposition. Where you are against your concession against concession, when you are for your concession for concession, regardless of the configuration in which you participate in the management. You asked about the concession law. Yes, the Law was changed, yes, the haste in the previous version, which was returned by the President, and in the current version is precisely because of the concession of Sofia airport, because you know, 35 years plus a third extension, this becomes an endless concession. Bulgaria splits with one of its most important strategic sites. Another argument. Mr. Letifov, I agree with you that when it comes to concession, but I sincerely think that there are responsible Bulgarian MPs in this Chamber and they will not allow this thing, but if it comes to concession, let us have the conversation where this money should go. Because what you are proposing is the proposal, by the way, of Mr. Goranov, who two, three years ago in his initial existence as Minister of Finance, decided that the money from the concession was some money from the Ministry of Transport and they were there to distribute it internally. No, this money belongs to every Bulgarian citizen, and the political will is us from the budget to provide this money. And how they're going to go into the budget, that's our job again. But we cannot say that the money from the concession at Sofia Airport is for BDZ because it could also be for NRIC. They're not their money, they're not the Ministry of Transport money. If, God forbid, it comes to this concession, this money belongs to all Bulgarian citizens and they have to go to the Silver Fund to support the Bulgarian pensioners. But I'm still telling you, we didn't get to that point. I know you'll tell me you gave Varna Airport a concession, but Varna Airport was given a period when this airport had to invest, money had to be invested. Then the concessionaire put in money and now pays concession fees. Sofia Airport is a completely different example and there is no comparison between the two concessions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u336	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u337	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to address colleagues from GERB and importers of the draft budget to support us and art. Ninety-four drop. Some of the arguments have been put forward in the speeches so far, I will draw attention to others. First of all, there is a serious question: where will the government plane stand? I believe that in recent days this issue is particularly relevant and that the concession should be looked at in another perspective. Because if he stays in a neighbouring country, they might not let him take off, and then we'll have to travel by train. The second question, which is also important. What does it mean to concession an airport that was built by the State? You all know that the airport terminals are 10 years old, the infrastructure was built by Sofia Municipality and the subway was brought to the airport, that is, everything was built by the state and now we will find an enterprising concern, a hero or anyone there who will explain how wonderfully it can operate all this, all the more so that Sofia Airport is currently a profitable enterprise. What arguments do you want to privatize Sofia Airport? Finally, on the third question. I can't explain how the party that deafened the ears of the Bulgarian citizens, which was going to revise the privatisation, even to turn the Constitution with the Hasara out because of the privatisation, to concern us at the moment with the concession of Sofia Airport? How are you not uncomfortable, I don't understand?! To the profitable state enterprise! Which means that everything else was empty talk that you talk to us here and with which you deceive the whole of Bulgaria. We are strongly opposed to the privatisation and concession at Sofia Airport. We insist on art. 94 to drop, GERB to support it if it really wants to revise the privatisation. If you are not going to revise privatization and until now you have only thrown smokes here in the public space, go out and say this, but do not bullshit the Bulgarian citizens in this simple way. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u338	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u339	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, to colleagues from GERB. I think it is high time for you to go out and explain what imposes the concession at Sofia Airport, all the more so that this is a profitable enterprise and profit remains in the Bulgarian treasury or in the enterprise, but in the end on Bulgarian territory, and not like those companies to which we gave and privatized. This one, first. Secondly, the airport is part of national security, colleagues. Imagine who this investor will be, for example a company from a neighbouring country, I address the gentlemen patriots, so called, for example, the president of this company why not be Mr Erdogan [[blowing noise and lines from OP]] who knows who's coming in and who's coming out of Sofia Airport. It's part of our national security, isn't it?! Where will our services be, I ask, at this moment? And you patriots should be firmly opposed, because indeed this airport is run in an unprofessional way, to put it mildly. The other day there were articles about how to take bribes to hire employees. So, of course, you have to give an answer, because you are assigning those people there who are in charge. A few months ago, a TV report was also shown about a firehouse worth over 1 million. BGN, for the purpose of exactly corruption scheme for draining of money. You have to answer because you are part of this scheme, and you are currently managing and these are your people.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u340	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u341	It should also be known that if you really want this enterprise to work, let's put in professional management. What's the harm in that? Let's stop draining Sofia Airport. But at the same time, when this is part of our national security and you, mostly the patriots, are ready to close your eyes, sell it lightly to foreign investors who will not put a single lev inside. Tell me, what will be invested in this airport? Are we making a new terminal? It is now evident that the airport is sufficient for these terminals. Are we building a new tower when the RVD built it? But the patriots may also be willing to sell the national interest for pennies, and that should be clear. This is where I refer to Volya. Do they agree to enter this vicious scheme to privatize a Bulgarian profitable enterprise? We from the opposition are definitely against it. We want this enterprise to remain Bulgarian, to have professional management, and why not have an international competition to attract the best professionals in this field. But you must answer: what exactly requires the privatisation of Sofia Airport? [[Replys: "Concense. "]] All right, concession it is, for 100 years, for 35 years. So what? That's the same thing, guys! [[Loud noise and lines.]] That's the same thing! Foreign investors from neighbouring countries will come here and know what is happening on Bulgarian territory. You will now hand over the national interest lightly, for pennies!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u342	Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u343	That's gotta be clear to everyone! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Revelations: "Bravo! ")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u344	Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u345	What happened right now, you've been cooking it for a long time...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u346	Mr. Stoynev, can I ask you for a second?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u347	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u348	Please, take it easy, take it easy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u349	I am calm, but when national interest is passed on without cause, without needing it, it is completely unacceptable to me. Here really, come on, GERB have surrendered, GERB are ready to give everything, to sell what they can, to no government property, but here I turn to the Patriots and to the.Volja, to their conscience: are you ready to sell the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u350	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Line, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u351	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Stoinev, you said that you do not understand how a profitable enterprise can be privatized. I'll tell you how it can be privatized. It is privatized, like any profitable enterprises so far, to collect profits, as the banks privatized, as the mines privatized, as the factories privatized. [[Loud noise and lines.]] In the same way, the Sofia Airport is privatized. And they will sign it by the government of GERB those who fight against the consequences of the transition in order to continue the transition to continue hypocrisy, to continue to rob, to steal and to collect in pockets! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Loud noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u352	Thank you. Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u353	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I understand your efforts to normalize the situation, but look at what's going on in this room. This is not a normal working atmosphere.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u354	Colleagues, please take your seats, sit down!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u355	I understand we've been working for a very long time, but let's listen. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u356	Please don't call from the spot. Sit down, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u357	Mr. Angelov, there are rules where it says who talks from where, who works from where. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]] I don't know why you don't make a comment to your colleague.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u358	Please sit down and don't call. I'll give you the floor after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u359	Dear Mr. Stoinev, I am making a line to you because you asked the question: who in this room can answer you. No one can answer you right now. There is no Minister of Transport, no Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the Ministry of Transport, no Minister of Finance, and no Deputy Minister of Transport, who was here all night with us, and now he's gone. In this room only, if General Popov and General Simeonov are here, I ask them from their professional nature to come out and say should Sofia Airport be concessionated. These people are from other political groups and I hope they can give some answer. There is no answer in this room because the desire to concessionate Sofia Airport comes from another direction. I therefore called on the MPs, who I hope are responsible and Bulgarian MPs, to protect the Bulgarian interest. So, Mr. Stoinev, don't expect an answer here. Indeed, you are right when you are talking about the Fire Department, about public procurement, about management, but I would like to ask in the previous budget, i.e. for 2017, we had bet 500 or 600 million leva from the concession of Sofia Airport. Where's that money now? [[(Loud noise. Replies: Who's the line?]] Mr. Stoinev's line is because he asked me what was going on. And I'm asking you, where is that money, that 500 million that was put in the budget for this year? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u360	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. You're entitled to the third line. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Third line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u361	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers! Once again, I cannot understand the pathos, colleagues, especially the speaker, because he has radically deviated from the meaning and content of the text and the norm we are discussing at the moment, and he has begun to summarize with assumptions, with presumptions, with probabilities of something that, I stress, has not taken place. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Communicating: "Ready! ")]] Let the speaker explain how, in the norm concerning the possible revenue from a possible concession procedure, how does this issue relate to the concession procedure itself? This is a financial norm that concerns a single rule. If there is such revenue, which means that it will ever happen, to conclude such a contract, this norm enables the funds, the income to go for a particular event, not to occur under the general rule of the Silver Fund. Because both companies that are commented in this norm are from the same sector are strategic. It's true, it's strategic, but I absolutely disagree with my colleague's suggestion of who, where, what data he was going to process. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I want an explanation as to why you moved the debate? [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] Are we now commenting on a specific future concession procedure? [[Loud noise and lines.]] We are commenting on possible financial consequences.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u362	Mr. Stoinev, please come in for a reply to the lines. I'm asking you to be clear-minded and cool-hearted, that's what it's called.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u363	Thank you. Mr. Kirilov, if you have no intention of conceiting it, what is this text?! Here's the future revenue. You're already betting on it. Even the intention to commit an act is also a crime. Sofia Airport what you want to do, that is why we are so angry with the opposition is equal to a crime, because this is a profitable Bulgarian state enterprise, which you will give for pennies! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The second, Mr. Svilensky, for this 500 million, is equivalent to asking where is the surplus of this year, honourable gentlemen ruling? Where is the surplus of more than 2 billion? lv.?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u364	Mr. Stoynev, this has nothing to do with your questions...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u365	Why didn't you give this surplus to the Bulgarian pensioners, but only those who have a income of 321 BGN, and those who have 322 will not take 40 BGN, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u366	Mr. Stoynev, may I ask you...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u367	Please don't interrupt me, but let me speak!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u368	Please hold...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u369	This one first. Secondly, such excess never existed because you lie to people that this surplus comes from more revenue. From this kind of revenue, there's never been a overrun. You just don't meet the capital costs. Because if there was a real surplus, you had to reassign it. So, Mr. Svilensky, over there, that 500 million, that's the truth about this government! As for the past, for profitable enterprises, yes, BSP is not responsible for the privatization of banks! [[Sighs:.]] BSP is not responsible for the destruction of Bulgarian agriculture and the creation of liquidation committees! BSP does not have any fault when [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria, lines to the right]] You privatized the power distribution companies! BSP is not guilty when GERB gave the minority shares of the ERPs! But now we will do our best to stop another robbery that you are preparing, which not only is a crime, but it is a betrayal of national security, and so-called patriots may go to serve in a company of a neighbouring country that, for example, belongs to Mr Erdogan. Thank you. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u370	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Any other speeches? Please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u371	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable members of the Council of Ministers! Mr. Chairman, I will turn to you, as the passions in this House are deliberately burning, this has always one goal. Here the goal is to buy into some political game. But the bad thing about this political game is that it's hate. Hatred of one or another MP by pointing out what I think, colleagues, that as large and responsible people enough, we should not allow. In the same way, Mr President, please take an attitude when a plenary room is being misled! Yes, Sofia Airport is subject to national security. But national security sites are international airports such as Varna and Burgas. When someone talks about national security so lightly, we are obliged to interrupt it, because national security is above all of us, colleagues, regardless of what the party plants have told us, no matter how we try to corrupt the debate and bring the debate into a vicious circle of hatred. Here we must be constructive and constructive. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u372	Thank you for your calm tone. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u373	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u374	I have a statement, the procedure will be done after that. By giving me the floor of speech... Excuse me, Mr. Zablyanov... [[People representatives Valeri Zablyanov and Julian Angelov stand on the stand.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u375	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u376	When I ask for a statement, I have to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u377	Mr. Zablyanov, may I ask you... Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u378	I've requested a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u379	But I asked for a statement!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u380	Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u382	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u383	Mr. President, I hope that you will suppress the opposition's passions and bring order and look more at the group of the United Patriarchs and when we want procedures or speech, because it is normal for this country in this House to participate in the debates and not just the colleagues on the left or at the centre. On the issues you raised, I cannot understand one thing, colleagues from BSP. Until a while ago, when it was bright, everything was fine, no problems, no bounces, no bounces, in the coulombs, in your hallways you talked to us normally, and suddenly something happened to you. Whether Mrs. Ninova is watching you from somewhere, that you're doing nothing, and you've activated yourself or something else, I don't know. When you talk about concessions, at least you from BSP, there was a colleague from DPS who spoke, at least you have the moral right to talk about concessions! At least you have the moral right to speak, gentlemen of the BSP, about Erdogan, provided that you were in a coalition with a party that most of the Bulgarian people do not say over 90% believes it is a party of another country! You were ministers there! You were ministers. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "Come on, come on! "]] You were kissing on the Eagle Bridge! And if someone served Erdogan's interests, it was twice when you were in a coalition here with this party. So don't lie to people, don't lie to them. As we are supposedly patriots to you, we think you are supposedly socialists. Because you're not socialists. And when you talk about betraying national interests, think about the party to which you are heirs and declared heirs, and declare yourself, how many people you killed [[(shouting and banging at banks from BSP for ……]] And how...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u384	Mr. Angelov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u385	...think and support that there is a Macedonian nation! [[Shouting and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u386	Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u387	That's what your party did! This is the greatest national betrayal! It's you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u388	Mr. Angelov, please. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Mr. Tsvetanov? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u389	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u390	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u391	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would call on each of us: let us keep this tone that we had on today's working day, because we all know what we did yesterday and each of us contributed to certain tensions in plenary. Now, at the moment, we are again seeing attempts at provocation to raise voltage degrees. This is not necessary for anyone today, and the texts we are looking at have absolutely no bearing on the topic that BSP colleagues have opened for concessions and for privatisation. Please, let us really be reasonable, because this is the country's budget. It's nice that everyone has some emotion, wants to express it in some way. Membership to all parliamentary groups, let us be moderate and precise, and respect the different opinion, but not to be raised tone and with more emotion that can provoke tension, which we will all be ashamed of once we do so. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u392	Withdraw the point!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u393	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. A line? One request, count to ten.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u394	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Angelov, I am a pragmatist and I just want to ask you if there is any financial and economic logic for this airport to be given a concession, with the growth of the airport being more than 20% compared to the previous year. Last year, the airline was 4 million, and now it's 6. They're celebrating the six-million-dollar passenger today. If you explain any economic logic to me, I'll vote right now for.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u395	Thank you. Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is to Mr. Tsvetanov's statement. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you are calling for us to be constructive and calm. [[GERB lines.]] He made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u397	That's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u398	It was a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u399	I apologize. It was a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u400	Please check the system, we have written a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u401	Mr. Popov, it's my fault. I didn't get the third line. So please excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u402	Okay. Dear Mr. Chairman, then my cue is to the non-speakers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u403	Yeah, let's give it a chance to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u404	You call, and you have been called upon, in fact, to be constructive, to be calm. There is no way we can be calm when it comes to such a plundering text for art. 94. We can't be calm, all of us here together to sin and become unnecessary! We don't want to be part of this formation. We don't want to sell our national interest! That's where our anxiety comes from, where our emotions and our excitement come from. So don't call us to be calm! If you really want this thing to happen, withdraw this absurd text. 94, or don't back him up. Do not betray Bulgaria and our national interests! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u405	Thank you. Reply to the lines... [[Noise and lines.]] No, that was the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u406	Mr. Chairman, I'm going to ask you to really explain the procedures more clearly, because the colleagues on the left clearly can't understand them. What was like a line from Mr. Tsvetanov, yes, we are not about going into confrontation during a budget discussion, using heavy words or historical ties from the past. But when, Mr. Tsvetanov, a party allows itself to speak, and certain MPs, lies and manipulations from this tribune, it is normal for us to react in the same way as they did. If they had done it in the moderate tone in which a debate could go, we would have answered them in a normal way, as is right. But when someone waves their finger and screams, and screams out of the stands, of course, the same way they will get an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u407	I asked you calmly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u408	To the line that was made to me by BSP, I really can't understand, obviously in your party you have some psychic abilities, how did you decide that an airport has already been sold? How did you know that? Nowhere in the text does it say that this airport is granted a concession. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That there was a condition that if this happened, you should do one-what-you-are-one. And you say, almost you prophesy that it is already sold, sold to one who is, and so on and so forth. How can you guess? If you have any such abilities, I'm glad. I will even consult you about future proposals if you have such abilities. It's okay. But talking about whether or not one thing is going to happen is another matter. Speaking of the concession at Sofia Airport, first answer for the concession at Burgas and Varna Airports, who made them your party. And they're also strategic objects. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u409	There is no second airport such as Sofia, Bulgaria, with such importance for national security, strategic site, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u410	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u411	They're in charge of the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u412	Yes, I wanted to make an observation, please! A statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u413	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I want to return the good tone, as you call in revenue, and make you read art. 94. Read it in full. Dear Mr. President, we have been chairmen of municipal councils and as if we have better read the texts that are being proposed. They're asking the Patriots' colleagues on the right. Yes, in this article it is written that the concession becomes.. there is no eventually........................................................................................ It says here, read what it says: the proceeds from the one-off concession payment. That's it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u414	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. A line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u415	Line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u416	That's a first line. That was a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u417	Because Mr. Svilensky asked for a line, and when he asks for a line, I get a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u418	I'll give it to him too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u419	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable colleague! When we have a content dispute, let's see the text and read it as accurately as possible. The text proposed in the government bill is as follows: "For the revenues from the one-off concession payment under the concession contract of civil airport for public use Sofia, the provision of art. 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the State Fund Act on the Sustainability of the State Pension System is not applicable. Who is this contract? There's obviously no such contract. [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria: Come on, come on! Then it shouldn't have been a member of the contract.]] Colleagues, such a norm existed and exists also in this State Budget Act. Because the government has honestly explained and announced to you that it started, albeit in the old order, one such concession procedure. That is, it has declared its intention and it tells you clearly and precisely only the first payment, if this procedure is carried out, will be... [[(Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria: "No," no! There's no one here. It says here!]] We don't know what it is. [[(Strong noise and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria]] We don't know...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u420	Please! Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u421	We do not know what the final concession contract will be, colleagues. [[Heckling]] Be serious! Read the legislation we accept. We do not currently have a declared concession procedure here. Even at present, we do not have a new law that meets the European directives. [[Replyes: "Search, weather!"]] But if it does, if it does. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , it is proposed to apply this rule only for the first, for the one-off concession payment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u422	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line, which one? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u423	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Nedyalkov, you have put the subject very correctly and returned the debate really where it belongs. Mr. Kirilov is trying to explain things legally to you, but the situation we are in right now, colleagues, is as follows. We don't have a concession procedure announced right now. We don't have any concession papers prepared right now. We have assigned an analysis of foreign banks, two foreign banks, which will probably be ready in two or three months. Then the procedure will be announced, then all the appeals that may be applied will be applied. You don't think this is going to happen in 2018, do you? And you say that you want the first concession payment, Mr. Kirilov. I tell you, from my brief experience in politics, this will be the last concession payment. There won't be anything else after that. [[(Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.)]] So you correctly wrote down the first one. But this will be the first and the last! [[Replications of the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] We can talk about Sofia Estates and the Sofia Municipal Council, but another time, if you like.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u424	Why don't we talk about concession procedures another time?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u425	Because now we're talking about art. 94. We're talking about art. 94! Mr. Tsvetanov, you rightly called for peace and quiet. This thing that's being offered, it's not on the agenda. It's like I'm now offering you the proceeds of the concession by Alexander Nevsky to sign up for a single-where you are. Neither has any idea to conceit, nor has any idea to sell, but Svilenski offers revenues to go in any-where. That's what we're doing right now. [[Replications of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] That's what we're doing right now. Our offer is to drop this. When the concession comes, this debate will again be brought here.. Whether to concession or not, when the analysis is ready. And when we decide, I mean, you decide that this is going to be a concession, then we're going to make an amendment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But that certainly, and Mrs. Stoyanova will certainly support me, will not happen within 2018. My suggestion is that you really support our motion to drop out and move on, because there is still a little time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u426	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u427	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! Dear Mr Nedyalkov, I asked the right side of the hall if they see economic logic in this concession. I'll ask you the same thing. I'm gonna ask you something else. At least from what I see and what Mr. Kirilov says, it's a guess. Is that how I'm supposed to find out? [[Replications of the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Yes, a line to Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u428	Well, look there! [[It points to the block of BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u429	And I'll ask you, Mr Nedyalkov, what you think they did in the Budget Act, isn't that a wrong plan to show a smaller deficit? [[Replications of the rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u430	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Nedyalkov, please respond to the three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u431	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! I'll be very brief in my backside. I think the Bulgarian language makes sense, there is semantics when you add the full or short term to the words. When you say "Member of the National Assembly," you mean all Members of the National Assembly. When you say the People's Representative, you mean a particular Member of the National Assembly. So is this article, which is written down, proposed. It may have been a mistake in the previous budget, but it contains that the concession of Sofia Airport is predestined in the words the revenues from the contract and the so-called one-time concession payment. Here are the three words that indicate that it goes with this text of concession and that with this text in the budget we make the decision to concession the airport. I don't make any political sense here. I'm just thinking right in the words behind which the political meaning lies. The political meaning of the concession at the airport, it is no accident that the people there are ready for protest, it is not for a reason that this will be one final blow to the Bulgarian economy! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u432	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Statements? Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u433	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not going to appeal to morals and upbringing, because that's every single one of you's question. But I will appeal to the Presidency and to all of you for compliance with the Rules and such rude calls from place are not part of parliamentaryism. We, as you remember very well, but if you have forgotten, will remind you that a few months ago, when no one was speaking on this subject, we clearly and clearly declared against the concession at Sofia Airport. Then you were all silent on the left and on the right, and now I see some violent passions. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, more politely! I asked! We're not really talking about upbringing, we're talking about Rules. Follow the rules! You can see that in media appearances, you can see exactly who and when said it. I will only take this case to remind you that we have not participated in any scams and in any privatisation nor during the first prime minister's period of excusing, how it was, neither in the time of Lukanov, nor in the time of Oresharski, nor in the time of Simeon, nor in the time of Kostov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u434	And Borisov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u435	Until now, and until Borisov we have not participated. Never, the term will end and we will still be the only ones who have not participated in any transactions at any time in the entire transition. Write that down and remember that! As we are consistent and principled in our actions, we explain to you from now on that when eventually and if the issue of concession is raised at Sofia airport, we will be strongly opposed. By stating it openly and honestly right now, we are giving you the opportunity not to openly and honestly, backstage, to go and negotiate to do it and get your share of the commissions. Whoever he is, I'm not saying it's someone who decides to go and negotiate. We'll be against this thing! I am surprised how you can do such things, I will not use the word "cirque" even though all journalists use it all day, and by the fly to make an elephant. And they explain it ten times to you, the other ten times they say that there is talk of possible distributions of a possible first payment on some concession that is not being considered at all at the moment. You yourself say that this is absurd, even if this procedure starts and happens in 2018. Well, why are we doing these things!? Let us close the subject, let us vote on it, and when the time comes for the concession, I urge you to be as sharp as you are now. We will be even sharper and will be strongly opposed to such an action. Finally, but, come on, I will refrain from saying this, because there has been a rally, a supposed socialist, supposedly Democrats, supposedly patriots, let us really follow the order in this House, let us be constructive and as quickly as possible to accept not the controversial, but the undisputed decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u436	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. The line is Mr. Popov, the second line is Mr. Letifov. Please listen to Mr. Mareshki's tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u437	Dear Mr. Mareshki, you are once again proclaimed as God from the chariot that descends and renders justice here to the peaceful people. However, you are putting off your position again because you said that eventually when the issue of concession comes, he has come, Mr. Mareshki, here and now! Here, I will read you the text again: For the revenue from the one-off concession payment under the concession contract. If the government had no intention of conceiting the airport, this text wouldn't be here. I therefore call on you here, out of this tribune, to carry out this statement that you have made for the future debate here and now, to make it clear to you that your entire Parliamentary Group should be here and to vote against this text. And not anymore, after they have taken the first step and put it into the state budget, the first step to concession under a specific contract, on specific revenues, then to rip off your shirts. It won't make any sense simple. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u438	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Letifov, second line, third line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u439	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Mareshki! I'll be very brief. Now you are voting with your coalition partners "Those who support the budget, they are the rulers. You supported art. This is the revenue side. Tomorrow you will have to support the addition of this part, for example with the concession. And if your big coalition partner obliges you or asks you to fill in this missing part as coalition partners as managers, will you refuse to fulfill this commitment and do only half the job you have taken? This is a work for coalition partners, starting from...................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u440	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u441	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Ministers, dear Mr. Mareshki! I share the logic of your statement that this is a norm that would concern any future revenue. But you were not here in the last parliament, you did not attend the discussion last year at the current budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. My question to you is this: why do you think this debate is starting now? Why was he gone last November at the end or early December? And then there was even an open procedure for it! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u442	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u443	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members, I'm going to start backwards. That's the double archin: when you're in charge, you talk one thing, God forbid, you fall into opposition, you talk the exact opposite, and you wait for the moment to get back on the horse to say the same thing. And the dream of ruining the concession now so that eventually, some years later, we could come to power, make it us to take not part of the commissions, but the whole commission. Mr. Hamid, the ruling coalition is very stable! As you can see, it's unshakable. With your support, it has become so unwavering that you have quite calmly voted on the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, for example, because for you, supported points of the budget that are good for the Bulgarian people, these are parts of the government, and for us those who supported the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council are part of the ruling coalition, so these are issues of interpretation. We are in opposition, we will support all good decisions. Of course we will support Bulgaria's budget. We will not support the concession of Sofia Airport and colleague Popov. Colleague Popov, no matter how much you waved it, I really thought there was something and very focused I read art. 94 from end to end, and there is no talk that we are currently discussing the concession of Sofia Airport. I once again declare to you to give you your freedom again under the scheme 5,4,3,3,2,2 and whatever other scheme you make to go and negotiate. We concession to Sofia Airport will not support! Not only will we not support it, we will actively oppose it! No matter how much you talk about triple, and it can't be triple, because it is already triple coalition, no matter how much you say that with this gesture we support privatisation, the Bulgarian people are witnesses, the latest sociological studies show it clearly I think I am with the highest approval of fellow MPs. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is thanks to our always accurate, honest and straightforward policy towards the Bulgarian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u444	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u445	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I feel like I got into déjà vu because last year, discussing the state budget, we had the exact same discussion. It seems that here the most of the majority have forgotten what discussion we had last year. Dear colleagues and predecessors, here on this platform, with the adoption of this text, we do not open a door, we open a portal for the concessionation of Sofia Airport. His destiny is decided! Because in the Law on concessions, which we adopted just a few days ago, it is precisely and clearly stated that the National Assembly is not involved in this game. Do you understand? Adopting the text that we have future revenues from this enterprise, from its concessionation, means that this thesis in the decision of the government is already past. From now on, we are waiting for the respective minister to take the decision to initiate the procedure and by the end of the year to accommodate the concessionaire at Sofia Airport. That's the bitter truth! This thing we've been chewing since 2014 and repeating it here all the time, and there's no one to hear us, and every time we pretend to be pinched, there won't be any such work. Dear colleagues, today with this decision we leave a final decision to the Bulgarian people: Sofia Airport will no longer be a national security site and from now on the revenues from this airport will not enter the state budget, because no one can guarantee what will enter there and obviously these revenues are going up. All Pre-speakers in terms of privatization of concessions and so on, which the government currently wants to revise, are extremely right. This thing contradicts any logic that you confess. Once again, to understand me: then the vote, after the adoption of this text, the National Assembly comes out of the game for the concession of Sofia Airport. We will only follow the media and may ask current questions to the ministers about what happened, who took it, what criteria it took and so on. We are only witnessing a future, as fellow Members have said, a crime in this direction. Sofia Airport must not be concessionated. The rejection of this text today will be a clear sign to the Bulgarian voters, to the sovereign that we care for the Bulgarian national interests, because Sofia Airport is an important element of the structure of Bulgarian national security. I also warned on this topic when we voted on the Ministry of Interior Act, when it was written there that all contracts with Sofia Airport with regard to security were terminated by the end of the year, it was also not an accident, it was the first step. Today we are about to take the biggest step to put it in the budget of the state. And from there on, we just watch and do nothing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u446	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're calling off the debate. Procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u447	Dear Mr. Chairman! In relation to the upcoming vote on this plundering text, because it is right that it will no longer matter, but it is important here the absence of ministers, those who will conceit Sofia Airport, I propose that the vote be done by getting up from the place and declaring a way of voting. Let the Bulgarian people see who sells the national interest! [[Noise and shouting from GERB.]] I suggest this procedure. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u448	Thank you. Another opinion, nasty? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's put it to the vote if you don't have... Please have the MPs take their seats. Please stop moving! [[Noise and lines.]] No, I didn't. There's been a mistake! I've asked everyone to take their seats, nothing else. I didn't put it to the vote. There's been a mistake! Would you mind taking your seats? Thank you. We can now move on to a vote. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal on the roll call... [[Reply: No right!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u449	Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u450	This is a violation of regulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u451	Please, the Quaestors, step in. There are difficulties in voting in several places. Have all the MPs been able to vote? Vote 202 MPs: 66, against 123, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. Statements? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under art. 94. Please, voting mode. 200 MPs voted: 67 against 99, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 198 MPs: 19 against 104, 75 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We shall vote on the text of the importer under art. 94, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 199 MPs: 116, against 83, abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u452	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! I voted against the first step towards the concession of Sofia Airport, the concession of one of the most profitable state-owned enterprises, which brings only revenue to our country, an undertaking that is part of our national security! Here everyone can speak in the direction that they are against the concession, that they are against the sale of state assets that bring revenue to our country, but with their vote some political forces have clearly shown that the masks have fallen today! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u453	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u454	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against the adoption of this text because I believe that drafting a state budget is a serious thing. Something serious that you can't bring in things you don't mean to do, but you've got them inside the revenue section. Something serious that is not subject to assumptions that if something ever happens and we eventually get something, it will be 100% in the revenue section and will define the budget framework. Colleague governors, this is a frivolous behavior, unless you want in a purely mathematical way to fix your deficit, in a purely mathematical way to determine some revenue that you've long thought you should have. I don't even want to go into the fact that by doing a purely mathematical exercise in this way, you have almost predestined the fate of Sofia Airport not only you as a party GERB, this has been doing so for a long time. Unfortunately, there are colleagues who are evolving in their attitude towards Sofia Airport and from past parliaments have gone exactly the opposite and supported this thing today. That's inconsistent behavior. Incoherent behaviour, which is why I voted against it so that there would be one more vote against the concessionation of the airport, but I do not mind the money from it going into the budget, colleagues from Volja. [[Noise.]] What we have done today, and I have therefore voted against, has been a neglect of the serious attitude towards the budget, the serious attitude towards state property, the serious attitude towards how we should treat our national representatives as our national wealth and our national security. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u455	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u456	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I voted against art. 94... [[Noise and lines from GERB: "You have no right to a negative vote! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u457	He has a right to make a negative vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u458	Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u459	I've done a few lines, I haven't spoken, I'm entitled to a negative vote, honourable Members! Honourable Members of the House, Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister! I voted against because I cannot support such a text, which means national betrayal. I voted against because this was the first and last chance of the MPs, given the new concession law adopted, to express their opinion and opinion on this Law and on the concession of Sofia Airport, because from now on all work goes to the government, i.e. the Council of Ministers and the ministers. And this is what the esteemed MPs of the United Patriarchs knew and all those who supported it. And that, my dear Mr. Mareshki, was your first and last chance to tear your shirts against this Law on concessions, against the concessionation of Sofia Airport, because you will no longer have this chance here, from this platform. Everything goes to the Council of Ministers. You have stated that you have not participated in any bargains, I quote. Well, you've already been in it! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u460	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Mrs. Stoyanova, please report the next member. [[(Relations from the MP Veselin Mareshki asking for a personal explanation. Noise and lines by GERB:]] Mr. Mareshki, there's no personal explanation in the negative vote. If you want, I can give you a procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u461	Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a slight remark to you about the manner of conduct and the fact that you are not ending such outrage against our political party and against me personally. I see absolutely nothing to do with the fact that from now on Parliament will not deal with this issue. If we do not vote on this point today, does this change the procedure, comrades from BSP? They can still, without voting how the costs will be distributed, do so. [[Noise and lines.]] That is why I am also telling you that the vote today does not matter at all for the concession procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u462	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Mareshki, treat me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u463	Yes, I would ask you to have order in the Chamber, not to have such calls, to have education, to have consistency and to protect the interests of the Bulgarian people. Today I have read the Constitution once more and this is written as one of the first points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u464	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u465	Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs for the creation of several new members 94a, 946, 94c and 94d. Article 2 is created. 94a with the following content. Art. 94a. Part of the funds, after receiving them as income from the one-off concession payment under the concession contract of the Civil Airport for Public Use Sofia. (1) For the delivery of a new rolling stock of the BDZ. lv. (2) For State-owned enterprise 551,000. BGN, as follows: 1. for emergency investments in the Sea2Sea corridor and restoration of the consequences of the crash in Hitrino, and prevention of railway accidents and incidents 551,000. lv. 2. means of incentives according to art. 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union............................................................................................ lv. (3) For the grant of a grant to the BDZ Holding EAD, in accordance with the notification No SA.31250 to the European Commission of 16 June 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. 449 thousand. lv. (4) The funds referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be planned in the central budget. (5) The funds referred to in paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 shall be made available by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications up to the amount of the intended. Art. 94b. (1) The funds to secure the increase of the minimum wage in local activities under municipal budgets are planned in the central budget. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be provided by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance up to the amount of the planned. (3) The funds shall be spent for the remuneration of employees employed in local activities whose basic monthly remuneration on 31 December 2017 shall be less than BGN 510. Art. 94c. (1) Up to 5 million funds are planned in the central budget. lv. for unforeseen and urgent costs for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of municipal roads. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be provided by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance up to the amount of the planned. (3) The funds shall be spent for reimbursement of extraordinary expenses incurred by the municipalities for winter maintenance and snow cleaning of the municipal roads, provided that the amount of the subsidy determined under art. 52 insufficient and the climatic conditions on the territory of the municipality concerned were less favourable. Art. Ninety-four years. (1) Funds up to 50 million are planned in the central budget. lv. to compensate municipalities for the transition to the new funding model of the delegated budget system in education. (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be provided by an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance up to the amount of the planned. (3) The funds shall be spent to compensate the municipalities for the costs of remuneration and social contributions in kindergartens, provided that the amount of the subsidy determined under art. 52 is available. The Commission does not support the proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u466	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u467	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the parliamentary group of the European Parliament, we followed the debate on the previous member of the budget, which lasted perhaps more than an hour, and all the time we were asking: are we discussing ratification of the Treaty on the concession of Sofia Airport, are we adopting the concession law, are we validating rules for privatisation or concession of Sofia Airport, or are we looking at the state budget? The main problem if Sofia Airport is concessionated is what happens to the funds, the revenues of this concession? Firstly, no one speaks at all on this subject and, secondly, when we see the proposals, no one is interested in this topic. On the contrary, there is a text that says that this revenue does not apply to the text which in the relevant law says where they are going, i.e. the Guarantee Fund of the pension system. We therefore make these three proposals to make it clear, if there is such a concession, which will, of course, be subject to another discussion, because, firstly, it has not been announced; secondly, we do not know the terms; thirdly, fourthly, fifthly and so on, but if these things happen in the Budget Act, the text that I have passed will forward the revenues where the Council of Ministers will spend them as it chooses. Our three proposals are for this. If this happens, the revenue to go some of them for transport, some of them for other needs, we have described what. We call on the majority: it is better if there will be such revenue, to be clear where they will go. Support these texts. This is the real debate on this article. The other thing was I'm not gonna say what.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u468	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u469	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The discussion in relation to art. 94 is interesting not because there is such a concession contract or not. It seems to me here that my colleague, Yordan Tsonev, has quite rightly raised the question of the guarantees for spending the money from such a concession contract. I look at the figures that are written in their proposal, and I would like to draw attention to them. For the delivery of new rolling stock of BDZ lv. and 124 million. for the National Railway Infrastructure Company. Isn't that right? Therefore, we have some orientation as to how much this concession costs. Isn't that what you're saying, Mr. Tsonev? Or don't we have an orientation as to how much the concession costs? [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] I want to ask the question: how wicked are we going to work? Texts are recorded in the budget without having any concession contracts or proposals and all that time, which my colleague Mr. Svilenski explained in detail here. I can't understand the meaning of these texts in the budget. Once again, such actions are being made and they will not end well, even if such a concession contract is realized, because the Bulgarian state will surely lose to it. I cannot understand what this political will should be that does not comply with the needs of Bulgarian society and economy?! I don't get it. Excuse me, but why do you have to follow this policy that started in the mid-1990s? Until the boards are sold, too? Well, they're brand-new. I don't understand what this is about. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u470	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. A line? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u471	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Jablyanov! No, we do not suppose how much the revenues from the concession will be, although for the purposes of budgetary planning always forecasts are made. For example, I remember the years in which the privatisation revenues were part of the balance of payments, and then, when we adopted the budget, it was said how to tie this balance of payments with loans, with revenues from this, with this, with revenues from privatisation, a lot of you. If you do so, if you do not take more loans. We are simply using budgetary equipment here to say that if this happens, some of these revenues should go according to purpose, and we do not comment on whether or not the deal should happen. This is not the subject of a debate during a discussion of the budget.... is definitely not the subject! It could have been the subject of discussion whether such revenue should be provided for or not. He could have been the subject of a debate about where to go revenue or not. It could have been the subject of a debate about why the Law should be circumvented, which sends the proceeds of privatisation and concessions to the Silver Fund. Because it's a budget, but it can't be the subject of discussing the essence of a transaction when it's another subject. Therefore, we say so: if revenue from concession is provided for a part of them to go where we point out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u472	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zablyanov. Will you have a hole? No. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 144 MPs: 19 against 99, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. Next offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u473	The next proposal is the MP Valentina Naydenova, also for the creation of a new art. 95, as Mrs. Naydenova numbered it. Art. 95. Confirms the target current and capital expenditure in the field of the........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u474	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u475	Madam President, honourable Members! With the proposal made under No 754-04-153 I propose to create a new art. 95, which proposes a new Annex No 11 in a tabular form of expenditure in the field of the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The objectives of the proposal are as follows: firstly, the Minister of Health, who is legally responsible for the entire health system, will be allowed to have full information about all the costs in it. Secondly, to lighten all costs in the function of...... including those made in some ministries and agencies, which will give a clearer picture of the costs and will support the process of budgetary procedure for the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. One sentence, when we were preparing for the current budget, and you see the figures themselves, it turns out that around 400-495 million. lv. are under the control of the Minister of Health. But among other money that goes under the NHIF, there are other public funds that avoid the control of the Minister of Health. These are various hospitals under the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Interior, Government Hospital, Military Hospital. There is nothing wrong with the Minister of Health, who is legally responsible for all healthcare in the Republic of Bulgaria, to have this information, including the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u476	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova. They voted 131 MPs: 30, against 76, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u477	"Transitional and final provisions' The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision, § 1 and 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u478	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of the division and § 1, 2 and 3 which the Commission supports. Vote 139 MPs: for 101, against 36, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u479	Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and group for the creation of a new § 3a: ????? (1) The Ministry of Health shall subsidize state and municipal hospitals with the funds under art. 15, para. 7 by order and methodology defined by the Minister of Health. (2) The subsidy under para. 1 shall be up to the amount of the obligation of the hospital concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u480	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. 140 MPs voted: 36, against 77, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u481	The Commission proposes to reject § 4 as the amendment was adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u482	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 4. They voted 144 MPs: 121, against 17, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u483	Proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and group for the creation of new § 4a, 4b, 4c and 4d: .................................................................................. In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., DV. No. ... ) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 27f: supposed to benefit from employment benefits Art. 27f (1) When determining the monthly tax base under art. 42, para. 3 for employment benefits, the same shall be reduced by the minimum monthly salary established for the respective tax year or period. (2) The annual tax base for employment benefits under art. 25 shall be defined as the sum of all income received from employment during the year, reduced by the sum of the minimum monthly salaries assigned to the country for the relevant tax year or for the corresponding period during which the taxable person received the employment income. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 1 a new comma shall be placed after the word 22. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 3 is created t. 3: "3." the tax relief for employment benefits under art. 22f, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. (b) para. 4 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be determined according to the following table: Monthly tax base after the reductions under para. Two and three. Up to the amount of minimum monthly wage established for the country. Untaxable income. The tax is zero. Over the amount of the minimum monthly wage established for the country up to 3300 BGN. 10 per cent for the top above the size of the minimum monthly wage established for the country. £3,300,01. up to £10,000. The tax on the previous row plus 15% for the top above 3300 leva. Over £10,000. The tax on the previous row plus 20% for the top above 10 000 leva. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 3 words multiplied by the tax rate of 10 per cent shall be replaced by a bet under the table of art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 3 the words.10 of the hundred................................................................................................ 48, para. 1.................................................................................. (b) in para. 4, in the sentence second, the words "seventh hundredths' shall be replaced by "sixths' in the table of art. 48, para. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a, para. The second sentence of the sentence shall be replaced by the following: 48, para. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: (a) para. 1 is amended as follows: The rates of income tax under art. Art. 37 and Art. 38, para. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10 and 12 are according to the table of art. 48, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. (b) para. 2 is amended as follows: The rate of tax shall be 8 per cent for the income under art. 38, para. 8, in the case of receipt of amounts after the expiry of the insurance contract, the life insurance contract, which is 15 years or more, as well as the income under art. 38 para. 11 and 13.................................................................................................. (c) para. 3 and para. 4 is canceled. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments shall be made: (a) the title is amended as follows: "Determining the amount of the advance tax under art. Art. 43, Art. Art. 44, Art. 44a and the amount of tax on the total annual tax base (b) para. 1 is amended as follows: The amount of tax on the annual tax base for income from business, for rent income or other provision for the use of rights or property, income from other sources under art. 35 as well as on the common annual tax base under art. 17 is determined according to the following table: Total annual tax base up to BGN 39,600. 10 per cent; from 39 600,01 lv. up to 120,000 leva. BGN 3960 + 15% for the top over 39 600 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Over 120,000 leva. 16 020 lv. + 20% for the top over 120 000 leva. (c) the creation of para. 9, 10 and 11: In determining the amount of tax on the total annual tax base for non-prepaid income from employment benefits, art. 42. (10) If the person has not received employment benefits, his other income included in the total annual tax base shall be reduced before taxation by BGN 2400. for the first child and with another 1,800 leva. for the second and third children until the age of age, if the due child has children and is not deprived of parental rights. The reduction shall be declared and used by one parent of choice. (11) The tax paid for the tax year may be deducted from subsequent advances and annual contributions to that tax due by a sole trader. Where it is established that the sole trader without justification deducts tax, interest under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims shall be due for the non-payments and annual contributions. 4b. In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. in Art. 1. 204, para. 1, t. 2 at the end of the text after the word 2. in art. 209 in the title and everywhere in the text, the words "food vouchers' shall be replaced by "food and holiday vouchers'; 3 in art. 214, in the title after the word "food', is added to the title "rest'; 4 in art. 277a all over the text, the words "food vouchers' are replaced by "food and holiday vouchers'; In Article 5, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 277b after the word "food' is added to the rest; Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of 7. in Additional Provisions, § 1, c. 35, 36, 61 and 62 after the word "food" is added. .................................................................................. In the Law on Medical Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 5, para. 1 after the word "suppliership" is a comma and is added to "supplier of health care." .................................................................................................. In the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14a, para. 2, at the end of the sentence, a comma shall be placed after the word "supposed" and a comma shall be added, not less than 75 per cent of the minimum salary for a doctor and the minimum wage for a doctor of science. 2. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 15a: Art. 15a. The persons holding academic positions in state universities, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy receive monthly remuneration, formed by rules adopted by an act of the Council of Ministers, and the remuneration under a basic contract shall not be less than: 1. for the position of the assistant, the minimum wage established for the country twice; 2. for a position of chief assistant....three times the minimum wage established for the country; 3. for a position of associate professor.. four times the minimum wage established for the country; 4. for a position of Professor.. five times the minimum wage established for the country................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u484	Statements? I don't see any speeches. We are going to vote on Mrs Cornelia Ninova's unsupported proposal and a group of MPs. Please vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I asked. I've closed the debate. Please, we're already in voting mode. [[Lowered noise and lines in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u485	Just one statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u486	Mr. Ermenkov, please, we are in voting mode. [[Noise and lines in the hall.]] Abort the vote. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u487	Madam President, because when the reading of the text was completed, the Members did not understand that it was over and that we were going into voting mode, my request is to cancel what you said so that we could enter the procedure. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u488	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, please be more careful. I asked if there were any speeches? Please, but we were already in voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u489	Madam President, thank you. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, thank you for understanding. Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In fact, this term, which we are currently proposing, this text is the conceptual difference between one left and one right. This is the text that shows the difference in left-party relations to the revenue side of a budget, from the attitude of the right-wing party to the revenue side of a budget. This is that topic that we call "social solidarity" something that is related to taxation of the rich with greater tax, taxation of the poorer with less tax and of the poorest without tax. Ladies and gentlemen, there are none in the world, at least very few if there are at all countries in which there is no untaxable income. We are the country in which we are currently doing so that we take from the poorest, but we do not deliver from the richest. Let me remind you yesterday that we refused to raise the threshold of maximum taxable income. In this way we try to keep at least a little more money with the poorest, so that they can live decently.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u490	How much do you offer indeterminate?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u491	Madam President, in the tone of normal relations, if Mrs. Menda Stoyanova is eager to ask me, she has the right to reply, I will answer her?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u492	Mrs. Stoyanova, take advantage of this later.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u493	Let's not interrupt, because we're wasting time. Maybe I'd be done already if I didn't have to get into a dialogue. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u494	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u495	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, we are actually very well aware that once art. 1 of the budget, from now on the discussions, the discussions, the talks we have made here are mostly pointless and the only point of these speeches was to hear what policies are behind these proposals, because in art. 1 has numbers. That's where the numbers are. That's where they say what the receipts are. Further explanations give clear messages about what this money will be spent and where it will come from. The philosophy of a left-wing party is that this money cannot be at the expense of the poorest, as is happening now. They cannot be at the expense of those who are most unjust, those who can barely make ends meet. That is exactly the point of our proposal. I will not even call on you to support it, because I know that you will not, but we will find out in the vote whether there is evolution in some of the political parties involved here to the problem of proportional income taxation, whether they have changed their position accordingly, because yes, we, as a party, have introduced the once flat tax into our governance with our mandate. We weren't alone, of course, there were two liberal parties. When we did this thing, it was clear that this way we would try to get some other social benefits that two liberal parties would never have given if it wasn't for this compromise on our part. We've come our way. I think that Bulgaria has come its way with the flat tax and that it is now high time to move on to a normal income tax, including corporate taxation. Because otherwise, if you tell us that this is the way the economy is developing and this is the way people live best, I will ask you: why, then, in Bulgaria, with the flat tax, everyone is fleeing to countries where the tax is much higher, where the tax is of an indeterminate minimum, where there is progressive income taxation and feel happier despite high taxes than in our country? Again, I say: I do not call you to support this text of ours, but I ask you to think about it, because the time will come when this text will be proposed, and it will be adopted by a new Chamber of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u496	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs a proposal which the Commission does not support. Vote 169 MPs: 60 against 94 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u497	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u498	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote § 5, which becomes § 4, and the Commission supports it. Vote 165 MPs: 107 against 55, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u499	According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MPs Nikolai Ivanov, Dencho Boyadzhiev, Nikolay Tsonkov: In Paragraph 6, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 3 to drop the proposed new art. Art. 63, Art. 64. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of Members of the National Assembly to be The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: .................................................................................................. Option 1: drop out. Option 2: C. 3 to drop the proposed new art. 63 and art. 64. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov § 6 dropped out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5, by: 1. A new t. is created. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 3 and 4 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2. Points 1, 2 and 3 shall become points 1, 2 and 3 respectively. 2, 3 and 4. Here, Madam President, I'm going to ask you to make an editorial change...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u500	Legal and technical correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u501	...in relation to the numbering of texts, in fact in point. 3 will make this change. So this whole t. 3 will sound like this: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the words "the Municipal Council" shall be replaced by the corresponding municipal councils and authorising officers with a budget - where a country is a secondary authorising officer with a budget under the State budget'; (b) in para. 2: (aa) t. 4 point (s) is amended as follows: in point (a), the following point is added: (bb) A new item shall be created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. the allocation of risks and responsibilities between the Parties, guarantees for the fulfilment of the terms of the Agreement and the responsibilities for non-compliance, including penalties, the duration of the Agreement and the procedures for its termination, where applicable;'; (c) the current t. 8 becomes t. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u502	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u503	Madam President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House. I participated in the proposal, where the entire previous § 6 should be dropped with the amendments to the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration. Logic is such that this is one of the main laws in Bulgaria and according to the Law on Laws, it must have a serious procedure for discussion. Another piece of evidence was made a while ago and the chairman of the Budget Committee, which already in the Law introduced an alleged editorial amendment, which no one in the House understood what they were referring to and what they were changing about. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] . It wasn't just a renumber. You've read a whole point again. I therefore believe that here we should also comply with the opinion that the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria has, this paragraph should be dismissed and made as a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration after a serious public discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u504	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? Mr. Veselinov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u505	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Council of Ministers, honourable Members! I am also an importer of an amendment in the same direction for dropping the paragraph in question. It will be very short, as the main motive has been said. In my opinion, except that this is not a good practice in terms of communication between the state authority and the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria and is contrary to the Law on Legislative Acts. 27, which says that such amendments should be agreed with the Association, and there is no such coordination, but it is entirely outside the subject of the State Budget Act and there is no obstacle or there is therefore no reason to look at it within the framework of this Law. Furthermore, I have concerns that to some extent such an amendment is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, whose art. 137, para. 1 says that municipalities can associate to solve common issues, but para. 2 requires the law to create conditions for the association of municipalities. In contrast, the proposed changes actually restrict the freedom of association of local authorities. In any case, such a bill, as a separate bill, will be able to be debated more calmly and the reasons of the importer to be clarified. The nearest date to be fixed in this amendment was mid-March, when obligations were created for mayors. That is, we have plenty of time to walk a normal legislative initiative, and I call on us to reject this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u506	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. A line? I won't. Statements? Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u507	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm dividing § 6 into two. In the first three articles there is still such a practice of intercommunal cooperation, and it is quite successful, which is signed in other laws. Mr. Minister, this is the operation of regional waste depots. I can give for example three municipalities: Smolyan, Chepelare, Banite. In both construction and management, and in relations with the Ministry of Environment and Waters, both of finance and all institutions, there is such a procedure and practice. Here it stands quite declarative and in no way will it further support relations in the municipalities and even the inter-communal cooperation. In the other articles, which are 63 and 64, these are members of the Public Finance Act. These laws are now being implemented by the municipalities. In fact, I believe that, out of respect for the municipalities, this is indeed, as the President of the Committee on Regional Development said, and the fellow Member before that, a basic law. Let us not approach the country's basic laws in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u508	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nikolai Ivanov and a group of MPs. Vote 134 MPs: 50, against 67, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 142 MPs: 60 against 67 abstentions 15. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u509	There are two options, Madam President. In option one, which is identical to Mrs. Dora Yankova's version, which we just rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u510	In option one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u511	And to Honest Veselinov, whom we also rejected. And in option two, which is identical to Nikolai Ivanov's proposal, which we also rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u512	Let's vote them separately, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u513	By option one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u514	I put to the vote the proposal by Mustafa Karadaiy and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. We vote option one. They voted 154 MPs: 59 against 72, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi, a second option, which is also not supported by the Commission. Vote 155 MPs: 61 against 70 abstentions 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov. Vote 158 MPs: 66 against 28, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 5, with the legal and technical corrections made by the Commission, together with the amendments proposed by Mrs Stoyanova from the parliamentary platform. Vote 164 MPs: 95, against 62, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u515	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, 8 and 9, which shall become § 6, 7 and 8 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u516	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission § 7, which shall become § 6, § 8, which shall become § 7 and § 9, which shall become § 10. Vote 160 MPs: for 101, against 55, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u517	Under § 10, there is a proposal of Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs: "1." In § 10, a new point 3 is created: "3." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "One-time assistance is paid in case the mother is 18 years old and has completed secondary education. 2. Previously on "T." 3 becomes t. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 10: (a) A new item shall be created. 1: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, para. 2, p. 6 after the word "supplied', a comma shall be added and a second, third and fourth is added. b) current t. 1 " 3" becomes pcs, respectively. 2 - 4; c) create t. 5 and 6: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. in para. 1 after the word "supplied', a comma shall be added and a second, third and fourth is added; 2. para. 6 is amended as follows: The aid for the year concerned shall be recovered from the beneficiary if the child does not attend school or attend regular school until the end of the first, second, third or fourth grade respectively, unless it is necessary due to the health of the child. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1, t. 6 after the word "supplied', a comma is added and a second, third and fourth is added. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u518	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the Commission's unsupported proposal by Krastina Taskova and a group of MPs. They voted 152 MPs: 34 against 66, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 161 MPs: 44, against 79, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I now vote on the Commission's support § 10, which becomes § 9. Vote 162 MPs: 106, against 54, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u519	According to § 11, there is a proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In § 11, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) the new content of para. 1 of art. 282 is amended as follows: The funds referred to in Article 1 (1) 280, para. 3, p. 1 shall be allocated among the budgets of the senior authorising officers with a budget financing state and municipal schools and kindergartens on the basis of a standard for an educational institution (school, kindergarten). (b) A new b shall be created. I'm sorry, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm (b) para. 2 is amended as follows: The standard for an educational institution shall include: 1. financial provision of the sections of the curriculum; 2. financial provision of maintenance, construction, furniture and basic repair of the base; 3. financial provision of dining conditions, dorms, recreation, sports base and transport; 4. financial provision of the development of teachers (qualification and career growth); 5. financial insurance of scholarships and special aids. (c) present b. "B" is the same as "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for "B" for The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 10, by: "1." point 4 is amended as follows: "4." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1, t. 2 the word "Learning" is replaced by "Educational and Educational results"; (b) in para. 2: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words "high or low educational results' shall be replaced by "high, low or rising educational results'; (bb) c. 1 the words "high educational results' shall be replaced by "high', as well as rising educational results "; (c) in para. 3 after the words...................................................................................... (d) in para. 4th sentence 2nd words are the results of the training and assessment of the inspection are replaced by the assessment of the inspection and for the schools and the results of the training. 2. A t is created. 12: ..12. Paragraph 59a shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: " 59a. Until the first inspection is carried out for all state and municipal kindergartens and schools in the system of pre-school and school education by the methodology under art. 284, para. 4 does not apply the inspection assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u520	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the Commission's unsupported proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 162 MPs: 36, Against 99, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 10, together with the Commission's proposal to amend it to the report. Vote 166 MPs: for 111, against 55, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u521	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u522	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the paragraph supported by the Commission with a new numbering of............................................................................................. Vote 171 MPs: 112 against 51, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u523	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In the Law on the Court of Auditors (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 1 words as well as in the event of refusal of validation of a financial statement shall be deleted. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The Head of the Audit Team shall draw up a draft audit report containing an audit opinion on the financial statement, subject to the requirements of that law, internationally recognised audit standards and the Court of Auditors' acts. The audit opinion on the financial statement may be: 1. unmodified opinion; 2. qualified opinion; 3. negative opinion; 4. refusal to express your (b) in para. 9 the word "stanovishte" is replaced by "reports"; (c) in para. 10 words.......................................................................................... the words are deleted and the words are checked and approved and replaced by the words are verified and approved; (d) in para. 11 sentence first, the words of the audit opinion and the words of the audit opinion shall be deleted and the words of the audit opinion shall be replaced by the words of the audit opinion shall be replaced by the words of the audit opinion. (e) in para. the first sentence of the first sentence is replaced by the draft audit report and the words of the audit opinion shall be deleted and, second sentence, the words of the audit opinion shall be deleted and the words of the audit opinion shall be deleted and the words of the audit opinion shall be replaced by the form of the audit opinion expressed and shall be replaced by the type of audit opinion expressed; (f) in para. 15 words and the audit opinion under para. 14 within a 7-day period of their adoption shall be replaced by an audit opinion on the financial statement within a 7-day period of its adoption. (g) in para. In the case of refusal of certification or refusal of expression of opinion, the first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence of the audit report where the audit report contains negative audit opinion or refusal of expression and, second, the words the audit opinion shall be replaced by the audit report containing the audit opinion on the financial statement. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55, para. 2 the 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." reports on audits carried out with significant results for the management of public funds and activities; 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 5 the word "supplier" is replaced by "supplier." 6. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 2 is amended as follows: "2." "Financial audit' means an independent audit opinion with a reasonable degree of certainty whether the annual financial statement of the budgetary organisation has been drawn up in all material respects in accordance with the applicable general financial reporting framework.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u524	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12. Vote 172 MPs: 111 against 61 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u525	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law on Medical Institutions (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 105, para. 1 sentence first after the word "suppliership" is added as well as to a medical establishment of a commercial company with mixed state and municipal participation in the capital and after the word "supplier" is added by the Board of Directors.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u526	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 13. Vote 176 MPs: 113, against 61, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u527	The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Law on Political Parties (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 27 para. 1 is amended as follows: The total amount envisaged to subsidize political parties and coalitions is determined annually in the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, depending on the number of real votes received from parties and coalitions in the last parliamentary elections. Every year, the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria determines the amount of subsidy for one real vote received for political parties and coalitions under art. 25 and for political parties under art. 26. Madam President, honourable Members, this text is in connection with art. 65 and the withdrawn proposal under this Article. 65, which is why I propose that the same text be rejected by plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u528	I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission establishing a new § 14 and the motion made to reject this § 14. Vote 174 MPs: 127 against 8, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u529	Since we are already at the last two paragraphs at the end of the Bill, we have an unfulfilled revoting of art. Six, which we have to go back to to to complete the procedure under art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u530	Mrs. Stoyanova, higher!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u531	I'm gonna try to scream because I don't have the strength anymore.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u532	I'm asking for more silence in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u533	I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly the chronology of this event. When we were looking at art. 1, there was a proposal from Mr. Antonov to reduce the urgent costs by a certain amount, which he wanted to be a source of funding for expenditure under art. 6. In voting on art. 1, we rejected this proposal by Mr. Antonov. When we got to art. 6 and we voted again Mr. Antonov's proposal for the expenditure in question, the House supported this proposal. In the re-voting, it was also supported. As a result, the final version of the text of art. 6 on the Commission's report with the reflection (reading from the transcript) of Mr. Antonov's proposal a little while ago, that is, what we voted at first reading in practice is a vote on the final version of the discussed text of art. 6 which contains the already approved editorial amendments. I read the text of art. 69, p. 5 of our Rules of Procedure: As a result of this vote, this final version of art. 6, which reflected Mr. Antonov's proposal, was rejected. I've made a motion to re-vote. This re-vote has been postponed until now. Now, ladies and gentlemen, we must do this re-vote or re-vote, namely to vote the then reported by me in the following way: 6 on the Commission report with Mr. Antonov's proposal: Article 6 of the Commission report, in addition to Mr. Antonov's proposal, which is part of subsidies and other current transfers, respectively subsidies and other current transfers to non-profit legal entities, contains further editorial changes as this proposal should be reflected in several more rows of the table of art. 6, namely in the rows I'll take care of it. 1. Current expenses. Spending III "Budgetary Relations" "Transfers" 1. Budget relations with the central budget, respectively in para. This was in para 2. 1. in para. 2 of art. 6, namely: Distribution of the costs under para. 1 by districts and policies in part e.g. 4 "Policy in the field of right of religion, as well as the sum of this table. Next is and is reflected and para. 3 which confirms the maximum amounts of expenditure commitments that may be made in 2018 and the maximum amount of new expenditure obligations that may be accumulated in 2018. These are actually the editorial changes that are included in the text of art. 6 on the Commission's report, on the proposal of Mr. Antonov reflected in it. Now I'm putting... you're going to suggest...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u534	You propose, I'll propose.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u535	...for the second vote to re-vote precisely this text under discussion, which contains the already approved editorial amendments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u536	The final version of art. 6 on the Commission's report contains...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u537	Approved and included editorial amendments to Mr. Antonov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u538	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u539	All editorial amendments plus Mr. Antonov's proposal on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u540	Procedure, Mr. Tsonev? Or maybe a statement. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u541	Madam President, the speeches have been suspended. We're in a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u542	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u543	Thank you, Madam President. The procedure to say that it is in the way of conduct, because we need to make an explanation. All of this is okay. Firstly, the amendments are not editorial, they are fundamental, and they stem from the adoption of one proposal and in the relevant article it must be changed. You know that the National Assembly is working in addition to the Rules, and mainly on it, of course, and on the practice of the National Assembly. Now, let me tell you, what is the practice of such a case. Here, there will be people who have been in front of people's meetings and remember. I'll tell you as the former chairman of the Budget Committee. The right decision yesterday was made. The text in question has such a precedent, not one. It shall adopt a specific text, regardless of art. 1, because if it were true that art. 1 predetermining all the incomes and expenses, everything else is not voted at all. It's not true because it's not true, it's done internally.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u544	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u545	Thank you for telling me, Mr. Lazarov, because I didn't know that. If you're listening carefully, I'm trying to help all of us. The right decision was to postpone, then convene a meeting of the Budget Committee and these things are done there. The minutes shall be signed, a new protocol shall be drawn up for the member concerned, submitted and voted on. There is no option in which text can be adopted without reflecting the adopted amendment. That's not an option. If you impose it now, okay, that would be the first precedent.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u546	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Antonov. Then Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u547	Madam President, thank you for giving me the floor under procedure, but also in general. In relation to the importance of the vote and we should not be under the impression that Mrs. Stoyanova wants to reform the vote. I propose an individual voting procedure with standing on the ground, as this vote is important. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u548	Such a procedure can be done under art. 67 and it is, with one tenth of the MPs, Mr. Antonov, so you can't make it out of the parliamentary tribune right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u549	I say we vote on it anyway. There's an option that Mr. Tsonev mentioned. I think there is such a practice, and in view of the situation that has been created, we have two options: one is to confirm by voting what we voted on Article. 6. My procedure is to get up from place to place everyone to declare their vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u550	In order to do this procedure, we must follow art. 67, Mr. Antonov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u551	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I will disagree with the practice that Mr. Tsonev described. It is relevant when we have had the opportunity not to have a first vote, that is, to have a vote on a proposal, then to see that there is a substantial change and then to bring the committee together. As the opposition insisted last night, we are in the hypothesis of a re-voting. In this hypothesis of re-voting, I would ask... we assume that we are making a committee. What's she gonna change? I propose to you the following: as well as the President of the Budget and Finance Committee, we are doing the re-voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u552	[[from place]] We have an act of non-acceptance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u553	We have two hypotheses then: we act according to final will.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u554	You don't have to talk to each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u555	Yeah, really, it's not right. Mr. Tsonev is a parliamentarians with great practice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u556	Don't engage in dialogue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u557	But this is a vote and according to the vote we have two outcomes: if we do not have a final confirmation of the norm with the amendment, then we are going back to vote art. Six by importer. If we have confirmation of the vote from the first vote, then the vote ends. [[SIGHS: "Eeeeeeeee and lines."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u558	[[from place]] Don't say that!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u559	Colleague Tsonev, I am explaining specifically to you, we, with regard to the text of an importer, have zero votes, so there is no revoting. Don't manipulate! [[Heckling]] That's not true, he's suspended with the final will.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u560	Mr. Kirilov, don't engage in dialogue! Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u561	Thank you, Madam President! Let's stick to the rules at least at the end of this budget, because so far the Rules are clearly interpreted as the devil - the Gospel. We have an explicit text in the Rules of Procedure in art. 71, para. 2 which I also read yesterday: "When the voting procedure or the outcome of the vote is challenged immediately, after the conclusion the President shall order that it be heard. And now: the call for a vote is final, which means that...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u562	We didn't re-vote, Mr. Popov! We've postponed the re-election!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u563	Please let me elaborate on my thesis.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u564	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u565	We accepted the text of Mr. Vasil Antonov. We've adopted the text, it's already part of the article. 6, and then we didn't accept the whole art. 6 along with the editorials... [[noise and lines]] ...what Mrs. Menda Stoyanova said "We did not accept the whole text together with the editorial amendment." We can't go back! There is no such procedure as is written in the Rules of Procedure. If now the text of the importer with the editorial amendment is not accepted, then let's go back and vote for which time the text of the importer?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u566	We'll vote under art. 69, para. 1, t. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u567	There's no such procedure. What is this article? 69, para. 1? It has nothing to do with this case!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u568	How is that not relevant?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u569	What my colleague Tsonev suggested is the right thing to do. And I propose that as a proposal to assemble the Budget Committee, to postpone this text, to be a point. 1 for tomorrow morning, get the Budget Committee out with an opinion, if they want now, let's take 30 minutes off... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u570	Mr. Popov, time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u571	They can get together because it's a vote, whether it's a vote or a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u572	Mr. Tsvetanov first and then Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u573	Such a procedure, which Mr. Kirilov described, does not exist in the Rules, and again you are trying to suppress the Rules so that you do not accept this one million for the Bulgarian saints.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u574	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Tsvetanov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u575	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since there is an increase in tensions the topic is extremely sensitive in the final of the adoption of the budget for 2018. I propose to make a break, a Presidency Council and invite the Budget Committee to have a representative, to have lawyers from parliament and to have from the Legal Committee. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u576	Holiday offer for how long do you have?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u577	A 30-minute break. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u578	Wait a minute. Mr. Karadaye had an offer, but... [[Noise and lines.]] Take 30 minutes off. Welcome to the Chairman's Council in my office, along with the Budget Committee. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u579	Colleagues, please take your seats. Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber. We're waiting for the MPs to enter the room. Colleagues, we will wait a while for our colleagues from the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria as they have a meeting. Here you go, guys. Let's move on. Before I put it to re-election... You're welcome, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u580	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tsonev, Mr. Kirilov! Mr. Tsonev, you're right. Mr. Kirilov, and you're right about the proposed procedures. You are both right that these procedures that you offer them are different because these procedures apply to different times. Mr. Tsonev, you are talking about procedures at times when the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly were respected to the maximum extent. Mr. Daniel Kirilov is also right, only he talks about other times. He spoke about the era of GERB when in the National Assembly, protocols of uneducated, non-existent meetings of the...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u581	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u582	Apparently, Mrs. Stoyanova just said that she was infected by this practice, too, and yet perhaps, Mr. Tsonev, you are wrong that there should be a Commission meeting. Apparently Mrs. Stoyanova is infected by the model Kirilov and she may already be ready with a protocol of such a meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u583	Mr. Karadaye, to me is the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u584	Here, ladies and gentlemen, the main question is one: the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly whether we want to, or not, to set aside in the state budget the expenses foreseen and proposed by Mr. Antonov, namely the costs of the cathedral..................................................................... In Athos, at a total value of 1 million. 130,000. lv. That's the main question. Everything else is decided. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u585	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. In the manner of conduct, Mrs. Stoyanova? Ah, a personal explanation, yes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u586	I'm very sorry to take the floor for a personal explanation, but Mr. Karadaye mentioned my name twice, and in one case he just put words in my mouth that I didn't say, even though I suffocated underneath. He put words in my mouth that I admit that I am importing non-existent reports to the Commission. The Commission, honourable gentlemen, has not made a report and I have not tabled a non-existent report! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u587	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. We are going to re-vote the final version of art. 6 which includes the text of the importer on the Commission report and the proposal of the National Representative Antonov reflected therein. They voted 198 MPs: 82, against 12, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause from DPS.]] In this situation, colleagues, according to our Rules, we must vote on the main text under Article. 69, para. 1, t. 7 by importer. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) The MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms shall leave the Chamber.)]] So I'm voting on art. 6 by main text by importer. [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, sure. Let's get this vote over with. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Revoting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u588	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I am proposing a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u589	Thank you. Colleagues, I am voting on the main text of art. 6 by importer which the Commission supports. Colleagues, I'm gonna leave a little more time for everyone to vote. Is there anyone who hasn't voted? They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. On behalf of the group Mr. Jablyanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u590	Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister of Finance! The position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party on the created case regarding the vote on the state budget is as follows. [[(Comments from GERB: On the agenda no declaration can be made!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u591	Continue, Mr. Zablyanov, a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u592	Yes, a statement on behalf of a group. [[Noise and lines.]] The way we're doing it is procedure... [[Loud noise, lines: "Eye, so can you!"]] Can we still be quiet a little bit?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u593	Please be quiet, colleagues! Please be quiet! Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Zablyanov. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u594	Ladies and gentlemen, in the case that occurred yesterday and today, a serious issue has come up, and this is the following: on the overall procedure for voting on the state budget. It was also the subject of discussion at the Conference of Presidents of the National Assembly, namely "Is it possible for the Bulgarian National Assembly to make any change in the draft budget proposed by the Ministry of Finance, albeit small, which does not result in a shock of the overall project proposed by the Ministry of Finance, and what can the National Assembly do on the state budget? [[The national representatives of the DPS parliamentary group shall enter the plenary.]] This is the essential question because, in this case, we have come to a situation where Mr. Minister, perhaps with reason from the point of view of the executive, claims that any change of figures leads to a final result. Isn't that right, Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u595	Pretty much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u596	So-so, so-so. Well, in that case, the more serious question is: what can the National Assembly do on the draft budget? If we have to find the strength to answer this question, then perhaps we should start a discussion on the procedure for adopting the state budget in the future. Is this the procedure for adopting the state budget? Because we come to a situation where we violate our Rules, to come to the various tensions of the Rules, to violate the Constitution only and to maintain the commitment of some parameters of the budget, albeit serious, of course. In this case, we have nothing left but to accept the majority vote, which is convinced that the procedure is correct, and at the same time to expect the executive power, the Bulgarian government to show enough concern for the monuments of Bulgarian culture, the Bulgarian national identity, not to leave them in a state where million and 300 thousand. lv. to present a question which must be resolved with a concussion in the National Assembly. That, I think, is the main conclusion. The Bulgarian Socialist Party cannot support such an open violation of the Rules, cannot support such an open violation of the Constitution, and we therefore did not vote on the proposed amendments. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u597	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. The word has the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u598	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Undoubtedly, the State Budget Act is a complex system of mutually bound, I don't even know whether to call them the norms, or rather the........... which are very difficult to change between the first and second votes not because it is impossible. Not because it is impossible, but because the proposals presented by the MPs are sometimes incomplete and violate the system and logic of the Bill as it must exist in order to comply with the Public Finance Act, the Constitution and the principles of modern budgeting. We cannot blame the MPs who make proposals between the first and second votes that they do not always manage to structure the proposals so that they retain the system of law, which in itself is specific to the extent that in other laws individual norms have an individual value and legal consequences, while here, in this specific law, individual norms are bound in a mathematical way, to call it simpler, and the change of some of them without changing others, leads to a lack of law and to a problem of executive authority how to implement it. Not by accident, by the way, the constitutional legislator, although perhaps not with this argument, has reserved only for the executive power the opportunity to propose the State Budget Act. However, what I have come out to say: we have had a rather serious debate on a serious issue about the state's attitude in general towards investing in cultural monuments and especially religious monuments of culture. I would like to say that at no time has the position of the ruling majority been against investing in religious monuments of culture and, in particular, the one referred to by Mr. Antonov. If Mr. Antonov's proposal were formed as one text in the Transitional and Final Provisions or as one paragraph to art. 6 which sounds about like this: within the framework of the funds of 5 million. BGN provided for in... The text is not in front of me to quote verbatim, but: we oblige the Council of Ministers, of course, this is not an exact text for a norm, but we distribute part of that 5 million. lv. and we're charging the government part of that 5 million. BGN, in this case million and 200-300 thousand, to invest them in these particular sites, by the way, there is such a legislative practice in previous years, this debate would not have stood. Here we are talking about the fact that Mr. Antonov's proposal concerns the parameters of art. 6, and in a way in which they remain single with the other parts of the State Budget Act. I stop here with the last clarification that I make a commitment and thank those who support, and those who do not support............................................................................................... 6, this is the budget of the Council of Ministers and the Directorate of Religion, these priority sites, which are placed in the proposals of the MPs and received support in the Chamber during the vote of the budget, to be prioritised. [[Applause from GERB, lines and calls from the left.]] We'll probably keep arguing about technology and technology. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] By technique and technology, we'll probably continue to argue. If we follow the parliamentary rules, what is voted on so far is correct and accurate, but what I wanted to tell you in the final form is that whatever the result of this vote, the will of the Bulgarian Parliament in the part supported by the plenary yesterday related to investments in these sites proposed by the parliamentary group of the Left and in particular Mr. Antonov's will be implemented. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u599	Thank you, dear Mr. Goranov! In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u600	Madam President, I would like to strongly object in the manner of conduct that you did not interrupt this rather arrogant statement by Minister Goranov. Minister Goranov had come to teach us exactly how to write the law and to explain to the MPs that, you see, the Bulgarian Parliament should comply with the government and not the government to comply with the will of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u601	I didn't hear that, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u602	That is exactly the scandalous thing that we are protesting that you have not made a remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u603	That you interpret words in such a way...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u604	Because, Mr. Goranov, we are strongly against handing out the money in the way that you do it in the dark, by decree of the Council of Ministers, and determining, for example, which municipalities will be profitable and which municipalities will not. Because yesterday was exactly the word of this and in a way that you could determine who these monasteries were. How would Mr. Antonov know about that 5 million? lv. What's going on? I thought you had a first reading. Why didn't you propose that this should be done then? How would he know? You just didn't have any desire, and here you polished the whole truth and hypocrisy that was there, because if it wasn't for this case, you would never have given money for Al. Nevsky and Athos. And that's what the Patriots need to know. That's it! That's your truth. It's who you are. And we really strongly object, because this is the way the Constitution, the Rules of the National Assembly, is being trampled. Once again GERB show that parliament is worthless when they rule, and that is why we strongly, sharply object and do not accept such an approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u605	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Tsvetanov, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u606	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My request is that we still stick to the normal dialogue that we need to have. The Minister has the right to take the floor at any time during a meeting of the Bulgarian Parliament. Minister Goranov took advantage of this right and in no way violated the Rules of Procedure or the Constitution. From there on, you interpret what he said. We in this part of the Chamber have understood quite differently and supported its desire to actually do so in order to satisfy what you have actually done as a proposal. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what I can tell you. And let's still, Mr. Stoinev, we have another hour to work, maybe, why should we do what you're challenging right now? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u607	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Karadayi, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u608	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for the commitment for the relevant expenses which were subject to a short time ago, namely for the cathedral of Alexander Nevski and for the monastery of St. George is in Athos. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will monitor the implementation of this commitment. Mr. Tsvetanov, you call for a normal tone, but the normal tone comes from following the rules. Mrs. Karayancheva and to you you have already taken a second step in the direction of resignation. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Dear colleagues! Ms. Karayancheva, your first step was in your application for violation of the Constitution and of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, the second step today is with the violation of the Rules, which is already a demonstration of what was stated the first time. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I have an appeal to you: if Mrs Karayancheva sees her as a victim of close party selfishness and power selfishness, then my call is to have respect for the institution President of the National Assembly and not force her to violate the Constitution and Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. As far as the normal tone of voice is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, there will be a normal tone when all of us here, in this Chamber, observe the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, follow the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, and abide by the laws of the country. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u609	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Here you go, Mr. Antonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u610	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will not argue with Mr. Goranov in terms of budget, finance, procedure and so on. It is clear that we had a closed procedure twice, and that was the will at this time in the last vote of the formed majority, that was also our position that we defended. Today you have shown us something else that makes no sense to the Bulgarian Parliament in the last two days, which we have talked about democracy, about elections, there is no point in talking about budget and principles. Moreover, things are very simple. Today, in this evening's vote, the majority is not blaming the opposition. It's about simple things about two national symbols, about folk memory. Today you blamed the folk memory of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u611	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. You too, Mr. Ivanov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u612	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I take the floor to strongly object, first, in the way you treat the MPs before my speech in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u613	What have I done, Mr. Ivanov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u614	I object extremely seriously, Madam President, because here in this Chamber, you are both allowed and your predecessors to vote laws one after the other, which derogate the constitutional rights and obligations of the MPs. Examples: Public Finance Act, today's State Budget Act. In practice, you are putting us in a situation where the rights and obligations of the MPs are seized for the benefit of the executive power. You practically put us in a position after the vote on art. 1 of the State Budget Act, we be unnecessary in this House. It is precisely because of this situation that we are currently breaking the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This is also an appeal to those in charge to rethink their position and stop taking away the rights and what is given under the Constitution of the National Assembly to be the supreme authority in this country. You are the chairman of this institution, and you should follow and keep an eye on this thing. At the moment, we are in a situation to sink as far as possible to the bottom as possible as an institution. From day to day, this thing deepens. Today I do not see how we will wash this stain on the National Assembly. The introduction and voting of such laws will lead us to the closure of this institution. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u615	There's no way to shut down this institution.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u616	Why? Because your offer is not accepted. I have no explanation for this position.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u617	Let's move on, guys. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u618	The Commission shall support the wording of the importers for § 13, which shall become § 14, and § 14, which shall be § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u619	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u620	No, § 14 was rejected by the court and we no longer have § 14. In this case, § 13 by importer shall be renumbered as § 14, respectively § 14 by importer shall be renumbered as § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u621	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs supported by the Commission 13 which shall become 14, respectively, and § 14, which shall become § 15. Vote 159 MPs: 111 against 48 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u622	We should announce the annexes to the Bill. Proposal from the National Representative Vasil Antonov: In Annex 1 to art. 6, para. 4. 1. 1 For the support of the Bulgarian Orthodox ecclesiastical municipalities abroad and of the priests working abroad, the number George Zograph. 2. t. 2 For the repair and construction of temples and monasteries of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the country the number Aleksandar Nevsky The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Annex 1 to Art. 1 to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. The following amendments shall be made: 1. of row 1 for the support of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church municipalities abroad and of the priests working abroad, the number 2. of row 2 for the repair and construction of temples and monasteries of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church in the country the number 3. on the line All the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u623	Statements? First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Vasil Antonov. Vote 157 MPs: 41, against 54, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 150 MPs: 30, against 75, abstention 45. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Annex No 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 161 MPs: 114, against 45, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u624	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u625	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the Annex supported by the Commission No. 2. They voted 161 MPs: 116, against 45, abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u626	Annex No 3 "Proposition of Members of the National Assembly Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev: In Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 4 of row 1 Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the number..83 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Annex 3 to art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, The following amendments shall be made: - on line one. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is replaced by the number - in row 2. Technical University of Sofia, the number - on line three. Technical University of Varna, the number - in row four. Technical University of Gabrovo, the number - in row five. Ruse University "Angel Kanchev." The number "12 648.0" is replaced by "13 912,8 "Angel Kanchev" is replaced by "Angel Kanchev." - in row six. University of Food Technology Plovdiv, the number - in row seven. Chemical-technological and metallurgical University - in row 8. University of Prof. Dr. Asen Zlatarov - in Row 9. Lesotechnical University "Sofia" - the number "7 279,5" is replaced by "8 007,45". - in row 10. University of Architecture, Construction and Geodesy - in row 11. Minno-Geological University of St. Ivan Rilski "Sofia," the number....4 737,1.. is replaced by..5 210,81. - in row 12. University of National and World Economy - in row 13. Economic University of Varna, the number - in row 14. Business Academy of D. A. Tsenov "Svishtov," the number. "4 849,3" is replaced by. "5-334,23." - in row 15. Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridski - in row 16. Veliko Tarnovo University "St. St. Cyril and Methodius. The number..11 791,4.. is replaced by..12 970,54. - in row 17. Plovdiv University of Paisii Hilendarski. - in row 18. South-West University of Neofit Rilski. The number of the city of Blagoevgrad. The number of the city of Blagoevgrad is replaced by the number of the city of Blagoevgrad. - in Row 19. Shoumen University, Bishop Konstantin Preslavski, number 8 222,1 - in row 20. The National Sports Academy Vasil Levski "Sofia" is replaced by "Vasil Levski" - the number "Sofia" - 14 271,2" - is replaced by the number "Vasil Levski" - is replaced by "Vasil Levski" - 15 698,32. - in row 21. Agricultural University of Plovdiv, the number - in row 22. Academy of Musical, Dance and Fine Arts Plovdiv, the number - in row 23. National Academy of Theatre and Film Arts - in line 24. National Academy of Music "Prof. Pancho Vladigerov - in line 25. The National Academy of Arts (Sofia), the number..5 - in row 26. University of Library Knowledge and Information Technology - in row 27. Varna University of Telecommunications and Posts, the number - in row 28. Medical University "Sofia," the number - in row 29. Medical University "Prof. Dr. Paraskev Ivanov Stoyanov - in row 30. Medical University of Plovdiv, the number..19 - in row 31. Medical University of Pleven, the number - in row 32. Thracian University - Stara Zagora, the number - in row 33. Todor Kableshkov University of Transport - in row 34. Higher building school "Lyuben Karavelov" "Sofia," the number "9898.8" is replaced by "1 098,68". - in line The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u627	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev, not supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: 41, against 69, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 137 MPs: 40, against 74, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 141 MPs: 104 against 36, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please proceed with Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u628	Proposal of the MPs Ivan Ibrishimov and Zhelyo Boychev: In Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1, the table, row 28 "Rilska St. Monastery" (Rila Monastery) is replaced by the number "600,0" (Rila Monastery). The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Julian Angelov and a group of MPs in Annex 4 to art. 51, para. The Commission supports the proposal with another source. Proposal of the MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1 the following changes are made: In row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. In row II.2. the number s17 000,0 s is replaced by the number s22 000,0 s; In line P.Z. the number "145 000,0" is replaced by the number "170 000,0" is replaced by the number "170 000,0" is replaced by the number "170 000,0" is replaced by the number "170 000,0" Row 4 with the following content is added: In the field of "Nanames', "DS', transport construction and recovery', the figure "Suma', "Suma', "Suma', "Suma', "Suma', "Suma', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small', "Small'. - Row 5 with the following content is added: In the column "Names" "DS" and "Repair and Construction"; In the column "Support" - the number "450,"0 "Supreme"; In line "Everythings', the number..183 In Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1 Subsidiaries and other current transfers to non-profit legal entities and non-financial corporations from the central budget for 2018 a. In point II. Subsidy and other current transfers to non-financial corporations, i.e. 2 for the carriage of passengers on non-costable lines in inland transport and transport in mountain and other areas, the number b. Add a new line and a new item. 4 to compensate for the lack of funding for the transport of children and students under art. 53 of the Preschool and School Education Act c. The number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin: In Annex 4 the following non-profit legal entity shall be added: "1." National Scientific Expeditional Club UNESCO, Bulgaria, with a subsidy of 51.0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Section I, row 28. Rilska St. mansion "Rilski Monastery" the number 2. In Section II, in row 2. For the carriage of passengers on non-profit lines in inland transport and transport in mountain and other regions, the number 3. On the line All the number The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and does not support the proposal under point 1. 2 et c. 3. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Annex 4 to art. 51, para. 1 under the attached table. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to put to the vote the proposal of the MP first...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u629	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements, coworkers? Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u630	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Goranov! At the end of the budget procedure, I wanted to thank you heartily for accepting our proposal to increase the budget of the Rila World mansion and restore a situation from two years ago when the Rila Monastery received that 600 thousand. lv. from the budget. I don't know whose credit it is to you, to Mrs. Stoyanova. Thank you for complying with this proposal, but it seems to me that it would have been a much better end to this budgetary procedure if you had also found this opportunity for the previous two sanctum monasteries to have found such an elegant outcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u631	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u632	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I would not be in a hurry, Mr. Boychev, to thank the Minister or colleagues from GERB because the vote has not yet passed, yet to see how it will go on your proposal. But a few words. I don't know why they wave their hands there. I mean, we found out from Mr. Minister that we didn't usually think about making proposals, because practically nothing was accepted. However, I would like to draw attention to my proposal to the addition of the UNESCO National Scientific Expeditional Club to the list of organisations receiving state funding. I don't have any illusions that this proposal would go away. I will not dwell on the details of the activity and why such funding is needed, I will just say that the similar structures in other countries of the European Union and here from our region are significant. Let me just mention some of them. In France, the comparable structure received 16 million. EUR per year, in the UK, 6 million. £50,000, in Romania "420 thousand." euros, in Serbia "86 thousand." euros, in Macedonia "32 thousand" Euros. These funds are foreseen for a reason, bearing in mind that next year is still the European Year of Cultural Heritage, and Bulgaria is one of the countries with much to boast about, but they also have many activities to carry out in order to preserve it and preserve it for generations. The support of such organisations is necessary, and the minimum funding that I have requested for this organisation of 51 thousand. lv. It will provide only some administrative security and tranquility for its operation and so that it can normally carry out the vast majority of activities it still manages, although it does not receive any support from the State. I hope that although I expect this proposal to be rejected, at least during the next budgetary procedure it will be able to be included in advance by the Ministry of Finance so that we do not fall into the situation here to confuse the accounts of the finance minister. We saw it wasn't recommended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u633	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 130 MPs: 30, against 77, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin, which the Commission does not support. They voted 133 MPs: 35 against 76, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs in its unsupported part. They voted 131 MPs: 30, against 74, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer by the version of the Commission in Annex 4 presented by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for 106, against 30, there is no abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u634	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! In Annex 5 to art. 51, para. 2 The proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Annex 5 to art. 51, para. 2 the following changes are made: In row II. the number of transfers to the non-financial corporations is replaced by the number of the total amount of transfers to the non-financial corporations. - In line II. 2. the number..115 000,0.. is replaced by the number.140 - In line II. 3. the number..35 000,0.. is replaced by the number.50 - In line II. 4. the number "seven hundred thousand,0" is replaced by the number "seventeen eight hundred,0" is replaced by the number "seven hundred thousand,0" is replaced by the number - In order "Everything" is replaced by "Everything" = "Everything" = "Everything" = "Everyone" = "Everything" = "Everyone" = "Everything" = "Everyone" = "Everything" = "Everyone" = "Everyone" = The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Annex 5 to art. 51, para. 2, in Section II, in row 3. The number is.35 000,0.The number is replaced by.35 000,0. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u635	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: 27, against 74, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 129 MPs: 30, against 76, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex No 5, which the Commission supports. Vote 131 MPs: for 102, against 29, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u636	In Annex 6 to art. 52 The proposal of the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov and a group of MPs: In Annex 6 to art. 52 The mechanism for determining subsidies for municipalities from the central budget for 2018 to add a new component A5 and the following text: A5 is an additional component of the total qualifying subsidy from the central budget, to which only municipalities have access, for which the share of own revenue in total revenue is less than 25% according to a 2016 report, and thereby ensuring a minimum growth of 15% compared to 2017 of all municipalities with access. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In Annex 6 to art. 52 The mechanism for determining subsidies for municipalities from the central budget for 2018 to add a new component A5 and the following text: A5 is an additional component of the total eligible subsidy from the central budget, to which only municipalities have access, for which the share of own revenues is less than 25% according to a 2016 report, and thereby ensuring a minimum growth of 15% compared to 2017 of all eligible municipalities. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Annex 6 to art. 52 add a new component A5 and the following text: A5 is an additional component of the total eligible subsidy from the central budget, which is allocated only to municipalities for which, according to a 2016 report, the share of own revenue in total revenue is lower than 25%. The levelling is up to 15%, and the respective municipalities with access receive an additional amount, defined as the product of the established amount of the total matching subsidy with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 and the difference in percentage between the growth of the sum of A1, A2, I and A4 and the maximum fixed 15% of the premium. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov: In the subsidy allocation mechanism, add an additional component to ensure growth only for the financially weak municipalities with a share of their own revenue below 25% of the total. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u637	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. I'm calling off the debate. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nikolai Ivanov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 135 MPs: 32, against 77, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Dora Yankova and a group of Members of the National Assembly "The Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 133 MPs: 32, against 65, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 134 MPs: for 31, against 71, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Iskren Veselinov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 134 MPs: 30, against 46, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex 6 which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 136 MPs: for 102, against 34, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the submission of Annex No 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u638	Annex 7 to art. 53. Proposal of the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov and a group of MPs: "1." In Annex 7 to art. 53 "Investigation indicators of municipalities for the activities delegated by the State for 2018 "Everything's going to be replaced by the number..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u639	Excuse me, Mrs. Angelova, just for a second. Colleagues, we still have a little bit of work to do. Please focus on this and we'll be done very quickly. Continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u640	...to replace the number............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In Annex No 7, row "All', the number "seven80 714,8' to be replaced by "seventeen', the number "sixteen', the number "sixteen', the number "sixteen', the number "sixteen' and the number "sixteen'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Annex No 7 to art. 53 "The values of the municipalities for the activities delegated by the State for 2018 "the number of the row "Everything" in column 1 s 780 714,8 "to be replaced by the number of the national activities" in column 2 "784 086,85" to be replaced by the number of the number of the national activities" in column 2 "271 425" to be replaced by the number of the number of the "274 797,05 to replace the number of the row "to be replaced by the number of the national activities" in column 2 "274 797,05 to replace it with the number of the row "to be replaced by the number of the "215" in column 2a "57 176,4" and the number of the row "All" in column 6 "230 956" to be replaced by "Everything" in column 2b "231 778,23." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov: In Annex No 7 to art. 53 "Securities of municipalities for the state delegated activities for 2018. The following changes shall be made for Shumen District, Veliki Preslav Municipality: In column 5, the number The Appendix shall also be reflected in art. 52, the table, row C. Preslav, in column 2 the total subsidy for the activities delegated by the State'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dora Yankova: Application No 7, column 2, the amount increased by 20 000 400 BGN and in column 2a increased 11 000 000 BGN, column 26 increased by 9 000 600 BGN - column 5 increases by 10 000 000 BGN - column 6 increases by 26 000 000 leva. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Christian Vigenin: The following amendments shall be made to Annex No 7: The municipality of Tundja is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u641	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements on the text presented in Attachment No 7 and the proposals for amendment and supplement made? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nikolai Ivanov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. Vote 138 MPs: 34 against 78, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 136 MPs: 34 against 76, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 137 MPs: 32, against 79, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 134 MPs: for 31, against 79, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 129 MPs: 30, against 75, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Vigenin, which is not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 31, against 85, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for Annex 7 supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. 140 MPs voted: 108, against 32, no abstentions. The offer is not accepted. Please provide the text in Annex No 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u642	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 8 to art. 56. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex 9 to art. 58. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Annex No 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u643	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on Annexes Nos 8, 9 and 10, supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u644	Abort the vote and announce the result. They voted 143 MPs: 105 against 38 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u645	Proposal by the National Representative Valentina Naydenova for a new Annex No 11: A new Annex No 11 is being created, to a new art. 95 under the name of the European Investment Bank (EIF) Expenditure in the area of the "European Investment Bank' under the heading "European Investment Bank' and "European Investment Bank' under the heading "European Investment Bank'. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u646	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 39, against 88, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, thank you! That's how we accepted the budget. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u647	My fellow Members, I would like to thank you very briefly! Where the debates were meaningful, where they were not long, but while things are happening in plenary, the law has sovereignty and everything is fine in the state. There have been debates regarding tax policy and the redeployment of the state because the two are inevitably interlinked. The change in the current tax model is something that for GERB party is unacceptable, and with this mandate we entered the executive power. It's probably possible. But here to the few other colleagues on the left, I would recommend that we start this debate fairly and with the following basic assumptions. If we decide to introduce an indeterminate minimum and maintain the current level of taxation of the middle class, this inevitably means a huge loss for the budget. If we decide to restore progressive taxation from the levels in which it was from 2007 before the introduction of the flat tax of 2008, this means an inevitable increase, and almost twice, of the taxation of the middle class. They can't both be true at the same time. Let them choose a position and stand before the public with one of these two. With regard to the reassignment role of the State. I could think here for a very long time, but at this late hour I do not want to deal with myself, but the low redeployment role of the state requires, on the one hand, much higher efficiency of state expenditures, a challenge mainly to executive power, and certainly enables the ordinary initiative man to make his own decisions on how to spend what he creates. On the contrary, because in the debate they heard that we need to increase the size of the state as redistribution, inevitably means making decisions for the people and having the confidence that we can do it better than they do. Doctrinally, in some countries, this is true, but these societies have done their homework. Our doctrine is that a free, educated, proactive person can make his own decisions on how to spend what he creates. And if we are tempted, at the moment as governors, to increase the share of the state, that means that we are hypocritical and that we believe that we are smarter than Bulgarian citizens, which is not necessarily true. With regard to the general characteristics of the budget. In my opinion, in terms of balance, it acts in support of economic growth or, in no case, in terms of balance, vice versa. The next few years, we are in a positive window from the perspective of the external environment, which suggests that if we use both reasonably and rationally, and opposition this moment, we could continue the development of the state in the right direction. The biggest problem we face to reach higher levels and growth potential is related to human resources and quality of life. What we must do is continue to invest in this area, because it is already difficult to find labour to continue the development of the economy and production. I conclude by saying that once again, although colleagues on the left are largely absent, I would like to thank them and I cannot accept their thesis that in winter the budget can be adopted in the light. Yes, the day is short, colleagues, but this budget, for which I thank all MPs, gives perspective. It gives perspective and it is the budget, it is the redistribution of the gross product next year, which provides the basis for continued sustainable development with growth, God forbid, above the forecast by the Ministry of Finance, because we heard that we are forecasting wrong. God forbid that we were conservative, that we predicted bad and that next year would be much better than 2017! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-30.u648	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, thank you, too. Have a good rest! Tomorrow, a regular meeting of 9 o'clock. [[PHONE RINGING]]
