ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Messages. On 19 July 2017 received and distributed to the MPs a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act adopted on the first vote on 19 July 2017. The project was drawn up by the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. On 19 July 2017, he received and distributed to the Members of the National Assembly a general draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code adopted at the first vote on 7 July 2017. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group "United Patriarchs." You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is exactly 114 years since the memorable summer of 1903. Then the whole of Europe talked about the feat of Macedonian and Thracian Bulgarians, their heroic sacrifice and their romantic ideal. The Ilinden-Preobrazilian Uprising marked forever the fate of the Balkans and the family history of millions. In those days, the Bulgarians from Vardarsko, Belomorie and Adrianople rose up against the humannivist agreements of the Great Powers, leaving hundreds of thousands under the control of the retrograde and disintegrating Ottoman state. As a result of the biggest Bulgarian uprising hundreds of villages were burned, thousands of Bulgarians were killed and slaughtered, and tens of thousands of others were forced to leave their native outbreaks and to seek salvation in Mother Bulgaria. Ilinden is a symbol of freedom and humanity, pride for the Bulgarians and support in today's days. Ilinden and Transfiguration God 114 years ago became a watershed for the transformation of an entire nation. One hundred and fourteen years later, it's time for a new transformation. Today, this uprising is celebrated in two countries. One calls it Macedonian, the other Bulgarian, but we are calm because we know that there is no conflict between Macedonian and Bulgarian, and there is no difference. For decades, they've been trying to divide this people into two irreconcilable parts. Our neighbours, as well as historical benefactors with imperial ambitions, make it possible to deliver politicians in Skopje, to hinder Macedonia's path to the Euro-Atlantic world or to make territorial claims. To be honest, they will all be happy if today Bulgaria and Macedonia do not find a common path, mutual respect, without compromises on the past, but especially with a view to the future, because Macedonia is not our enemy, Macedonia, it is us, against everyone who wants to separate us. Therefore, July 20 is a symbolic date that should unite us today. We are a guarantor of Macedonia's European future because every third person of us has grandfathers from Macedonia or Thrace because generations of Bulgarians lived and died with the name of Macedonia in their mouth, because Bulgaria was the refuge of all Macedonian-Audrinian activities because we were never selfish, we wanted everyone in Macedonia and Adrianople to be free, regardless of ethnicity and religion. We didn't even want Macedonia for ourselves as a territorial asset, and we wanted it first free for the people who live in this multi-suffering area. In recent decades Bulgaria has shown its motherly generosity to Macedonia, although much of the elite there did not respond with the same. Among the people of Macedonia, however, Bulgaria has no problem. In the name of this people, we must walk towards ever closer economic and cultural ties, to preserve Macedonia's territorial integrity, to parse the aspirations of its destabilization, because this will also mean destabilization for Bulgaria itself, the common past and the responsible present will guarantee the common future of the two countries. We therefore call on the Neighborhood Treaty to be signed without compromise and with hard work to restore trust between the two countries in the name of truth, for the sake of freedom and for the sake of the memory of Ilindentsi! It's the only way the 1903 National Golgotha will make sense. Eternal glory to the heroes of the Ilinden-Preobraise Uprising! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from OP and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u3	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Let's continue with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-EXISTING PROCEEDING CODEX. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017, was adopted at the first vote on 22 June 2017. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u4	Mr. Chairman, please allow Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Alexander Georgiev, Deputy Executive Director of the NRA, Tanya Drenska, Deputy Director of the Directorate of Public Procurement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u5	Please vote on the proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 176 MPs: 172, none, abstention 4. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u6	"Action to amend and supplement the Tax-Securities Procedure Code'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u7	We vote on the name of the Import Act supported by the Commission. Vote 176 MPs: for 169, no objection, abstention 7. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u8	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski: the following point is inserted after point 4a (Commission Article 1 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European A third party's responsibility is a person entrusted with management and representation actions. Art. 19. The person entrusted, under the conditions of legal or voluntary representation, with actions under representation and management shall be responsible for the taxes and compulsory social contributions of the person represented by him who has concealed facts and circumstances relevant for their establishment or collection, or in any other way hindered their collection. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs: In § 1, in art. 19 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 1 drop the words as well as a person who, by virtue of a notarized power of attorney by the manager of a legal person, manages his entire business. (b) in para. 2 drop the words as well as a person who, by virtue of a notarized power of attorney from the manager of a legal person, manages his entire business. (c) para. 3 is amended as follows: The responsibility under para. 2 shall be carried out by majority shareholders or shareholders if the actions have been carried out at their decision, for which they have voted. The Commission supports the proposal under points (a) and (b) and (b) and does not support the proposal under point (c). Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 19 is amended as follows: A third party's responsibility Art. 19. (1) Who, as manager, member of a management body, prosecutor, sales representative, commercial agent of a legal person under art. 14, p. 1 and 2 conceals facts and circumstances which were legally required to announce to the Revenue or Public Contractor Authority and consequently no tax and/or compulsory insurance obligations can be collected, responsible for the outstanding debt. (2) Manager, member of a management body, commercial representative, commercial agent of a legal person under art. 14, p. 1 and 2 shall be responsible for the outstanding obligations of a legal person under art. 14, p. 1 and 2 where one of the following actions has been committed unscrupulously, as a result of which the property of the debtor has decreased and therefore no tax and/or compulsory social contributions have been repaid: 1. make payments in kind or in money from the property of the debtor representing a hidden distribution of profit or dividend, or alienated property, including the undertaking, to the debtor free of charge or at prices significantly lower than the market; 2. carry out actions related to burdening the property of the taxable legal person to secure foreign debt and it shall be cashed for the benefit of the third party. (3) Responsibility under para. 2 shall bear majority partners or shareholders where actions have been carried out on their own initiative, with the exception of non-voting and voting against. (4) Responsibility for outstanding liabilities under para. 2 and 3 is up to the amount of payments made, respectively, up to the amount of the reduction in property. (5) Majority owners of the capital, including majority shareholders or shareholders having that quality on the day of the occurrence of the obligations which they hold shares or shares so as to cease to be majority partners or shareholders, shall be responsible for outstanding tax obligations and compulsory social security contributions. The liability shall be proportionate to their participation in the alienated part of the capital. Indecentness is present when the partner or shareholder knew that the company was overdebted or insolvent and the order was made before bankruptcy or rejection of the bankruptcy claim. (6) The responsibility under para. 5 shall also bear the persons, partners or shareholders holding minority shares of the capital where, at the same time or consistently, for a period of not more than three months, unscrupulously transfer company shares or shares whose total amount represents a majority of the capital. First sentence does not apply to companies whose shares are subject to public offering. (7) The persons who acted in a hidden accessory owe jointly with the bankrupt legal person the unpaid tax obligations and compulsory social contributions as would arise for the bankrupt legal person. (8) The owners of the capital, including the partners or shareholders who have received a hidden profit distribution, shall be responsible for the unpaid tax obligations and compulsory insurance contributions of the legal person for the period in which they owned that quality up to the amount of the profit received, unless the hidden distribution is declared. (9) It is believed that there is a misconception within the meaning of para. 2 and 3 where the action takes place after the declaration and/or establishment of the obligations within one year of the declaration and/or issuance of the instrument establishing the obligation. (10) There is a view that there is a bad faith within the meaning of para. 2, 3 and 5 where the action has taken place after proceedings have been initiated under this tax and/or insurance law control code up to 6 months from completion of the proceedings. Where an inspection is carried out, the time limit shall run from receipt of the request or protocol pursuant to art. In the case of the aid, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5. (11) Any person authorised to exercise the powers of the manager shall also be considered to be a prosecutor. Any person fulfilling the conditions of art shall also be considered to be a trade proxy. 26 of the Commercial Law, except for the requirement to receive remuneration, as well as any person acting under the conditions of art. 301 of the Commercial Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u9	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the proposed amendment in art. 19 aims to increase the effectiveness of the application of the Institute of this member of the DODK, as the caselaw is not very good. The proposed changes are an attempt to solve significant problems, but the analysis of the caselaw under art. 19 shows that the court determines two main omissions and grounds for annulment of the audit acts in those proceedings. The first problem is to create responsibility under art. 19 of the DPC, a person.. for him there should be a behaviour which is expressed in concealment of facts and circumstances which was legally obliged to announce to the revenue authorities and public contractors. Taking into account these two essential facts strictly observed by the court, the importer has attempted by introducing a number of new paragraphs to decide a large part of the cases that arise in this process. We believe that the proposals thus made will not solve the major problems that have arisen, on the contrary, they can create much more difficulties, cause much more revisions, and then. In para. 1 of art. 19 was proposed to extend the scope of the persons responsible for this text, with powers of attorneys with a notary certified power of attorney, to manage the overall activity. There have been many reactions to this text that it is inaccurate, both by colleagues in the Commission and by lawyers. This text was rejected by the Commission report and its dropout was supported. We also offer to drop out. But very interestingly, it is proposed to introduce a new para. 11, which determines that a prosecutor, a trade commissioner, is also considered the person who... This is clearly and categorically stated in the Commercial Law "who is a commercial commissioner, what his functions are, his rights, who is a prosecutor, what he is. We cannot change the Commercial Law and import such vague texts with DODK. That is why our proposal has been made shorter and I think, more clearly, when we have said: "The person entrusted under the conditions of legal or voluntary representation with actions of representation and management to be responsible for..................................................................................... And also, in order to meet the requirements of the caselaw, we have recorded all this must be for concealed facts and circumstances of importance for their establishment or collection, or in any other way has hindered their collection. The Commission did not support our proposal, but once again I am obliged by the stand to state that the proposed extension of the texts of art. 19 will not lead to the higher and better efficiency sought in the proceedings under art. 19. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u12	Mr. Turnover, allow me to disagree with you. I mean, colleagues, the current current article. 19 consists of two paragraphs and in the same way lists the responsibility of the management bodies of a manager, prosecutor, sales representative, commercial agent of the legal person in charge of these two hypotheses. Mr. Turnovallisky in his proposal proposes this article. 19 to be supplemented, so to speak, with an addition that does not contribute in any way to clarifying and detailing this responsibility. I believe that what has been proposed by the importer, namely art. 19 to develop into the 11th paras, as in para. 2 there is a detail of exactly what types of actions the manager must have performed, the majority partner, in order to bear such responsibility, is much clearer, much more detailed and creates greater security in the application of the text, especially for taxpayers, not so much for those who apply it. And I believe that this proposal, which the importer has made, improved, of course, by the Commission, would also give its clearer effect in the judicial phase of the proceedings. As long as what Mr. Turnovallisky has to offer, I believe that even more would cloud the possibility of art. 19 to apply and would create even greater interpretation opportunities for who can be responsible and in what cases and to what extent that responsibility should be held. It is no coincidence that so many detailed texts have been proposed in art. 19, because there is already years of case law in the application of this kind of responsibility and I think that you do not know whether you have listened carefully to what I read, but in practice it is possible for the tax administration to really take responsibility from the owners when they transfer their companies to so-called socially weak persons, transfer their shares to similar persons and thus create obstacles for the payment of taxes and insurance contributions. It will clearly and categorically be held accountable by them personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Turnovalyski, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u14	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, the text we are proposing covers absolutely all the persons involved in the company's operational management, both those who under Law are responsible and managing, as well as those who voluntarily, through powers of attorneys, have assumed these responsibilities and, of course, we have recorded with their actions to prevent the possibility of collection. I understand you have another opinion, but this will not solve the problems that have been created for years, because there is no way in the Law to cover absolutely all cases. With regard to owners and the possibility to transfer their shares, I believe that this is a restrictive restriction also in art. 19a we have made a proposal as a new article. 19a, in respect of which I will then take an attitude and explain what we are doing with this. However, with regard to the operational management of companies and those managers and commissioners who take action and make it difficult to collect tax obligations and social security contributions, I believe that all this in this short and clear text is covered and can be directed against them. Another question is whether the administration wants, can or does its job with regard to examining all the facts and circumstances.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Speaking.. the People's Representative Pencho Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u16	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, I take note of § 1 and, in particular, against the proposed new para. 11. I want to explain to you why I think Al. 11 as proposed, not only contradicts the Commercial Law, but would create real chaos in law enforcement. In the Commercial Law in Chapter Six there are four, no more, four types of trade commissioners and the prosecutor is the first of them. This is the so-called Alter ego. The second person of the trader, the other me. In order for a prosecutor to act, it must be entered in the Commercial Register. Without that, he can't be a prosecutor, and that's what it says in art. 24 of the Commercial Law By including in art. 11 three fictions, the bill in my opinion will create confusion and I will show you simply and clearly how. The interpretation of law should never lead to absurdity, which is where we would go with the following example: authorisation is a unilateral transaction, that is, if one person authorised another by his own will, even in the notary form of that power of attorney and left it in his own documentation, that other authorised person would bear, within the meaning of this text, responsibility for the duties. There's no way to support this thing, it's a fiction contrary to the Commercial Law. Correct in the first provisions of art. 19, which I support, the importer of this amendment makes an attempt to expand the subject circle of the responsible persons. This deserves support, but not art. 11 with his three fictions. What does any person acting under the conditions of art mean? 311 of the Commercial Law? These are persons who act without representative authority, third, unscrupulous persons for the trader. Another fiction that can't find justified support, a place in DODK. I propose that the importer withdraw his offer under art. 11, if not, I'm proposing to drop para. 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. The People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u18	I assume you're a lawyer, colleague? I just want to tell you that al. 11 in no way extends the circle of persons, on the contrary, gives definitions to those who would be responsible. However, note: if they have committed acts of concealment of facts and circumstances or have committed unbiased actions resulting from which the property of the debtor has decreased and are clear points 1 and 2, which say what these actions are, namely payments in kind, money from the property of the debtor representing a hidden distribution of profits or actions related to burden, with burdens of the property by the debtor to secure foreign debt and to be cashed for the benefit of a third party. In other words, they are not responsible at all, but only when, in this capacity as an authorised person, they have carried out similar actions which have led to the inability of the tax administration to collect and the person to pay their taxes and social security contributions. This does not mean that any person authorised unilaterally and his power of attorney stands and does not act will be held responsible. It will be liable only if it has implemented this power of attorney and not only has it realized it, but within this power of attorney has carried out similar actions..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u19	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u20	Mrs. Stoyanova, I disagree. Alinea 11 does not introduce a definition, para. 11 introduces three fictions. And what you're saying is in a sense, and I accept it, but it doesn't say in para. 11. If it said that what you were suggesting was dropped, namely, authorized persons who committed these acts... Yeah, but here we're introducing fiction to a prosecutor's office is considered to be. How can he be considered a prosecutor who is not listed under art. 24 of the Commercial Act in the Commercial Register? How can you finge something that contradicts a material provision in the Commercial Law? How can we introduce fictions for exactly the specified four types of trade commissioners? This is my objection, not your attempt to actually achieve a restriction on the circumvention of the Law by these persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. To speak, the People's Representative Valentin Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear packages! In total, the omissions in DODK in the Multiannual Practices of the NRA showed that the Law is being circumvented and a fissure is being damaged through various legal gaps in the Law. In this regard, the attempt to update the Tax Insurance Procedure Code is in the right direction. At the same time, we believe that there are some serious weaknesses that would effectively prevent this change from limiting abuse and, ultimately, increasing fiscal revenue. First of all, this provision of para. 1 with all its records covered specific cases which the authorities of the National Revenue Agency have identified in the years as At the same time, practice shows that we cannot cover in one law all cases, as there are developments in the years and there will probably be other cases that are not covered by these explicit and detailed records. Secondly, and now the Commercial Act clearly and defined defines the powers, responsibilities of the different types of categories that manage or manage legal persons. There are clear and definite records in the Penal Code who and how is responsible. At the moment, with these changes, trying to support the work of the NRA, we would create difficulties afterwards precisely in the work of the NRA, as there will be numerous cases at the level of the Administrative Court and at the level of the Supreme Court of Cassation, as there are several recordings that speak of dishonesty. It's hardest to prove in a courtroom the presumption of dishonesty. That is to say, we will be plunged into some judicial procedural practices in court and we would hardly be able to achieve wishes and demands of all effects to limit the circumvention of the Law and the abuse of the order with these companies, as well as the the theft of mostly value added tax. In this regard, we should reflect and work towards the principle of these provisions and rule out specific cases, as this will lead in very short time again to make an addition and amendment of the DPK with new cases. Since, as you know, money does not sleep and people who deal with these schemes will probably come up with a hundred more moves to bypass these generally good examples, which are now laid out in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. In this regard, I believe that when we adopt a law, it must be sustainable over time, it must be long-term, and not for the specific circumstances and facts that we have in the practice and in the work of the NRA, but rather to create frameworks, rules, conditions and compliance with these conditions. And finally, I want to finish with, we seem to give almost unlimited authority to the authorities of the National Revenue Agency with very extensive interpretations that they can use against legal entities. Basically, fellow Members, we are at the moment giving up certain rights, powers that we have as a legislative body, transferring them to the NRA and telling them: make a rule with which you can apply what we are going to adopt today. I want to tell you that even now, the powers of the NRA's authorities are not very small. Here is the question, of course, how the authorities of the NRA investigate these cases, where there are violations, how they lead them to a courtroom and how, of course, they manage to win these cases. Because the practice has shown that very often revisional acts, penal decrees which, within the meaning of the Law, are correct and correct, do not stand up in a courtroom due to a number of omissions which were admitted by employees of the NRA in the course of the proceedings. So let's expand the powers and capabilities of the NRA. Okay, but in the end, this is also a matter of administrative and human resources of the authorities of the NRA, which, under the current legislation, have very little power to protect the interest of the Bulgarian taxpayers. Let's talk about what this is about: theft of public funds through various procedures and catch-ups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. The People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u24	Dear colleague, I do not understand whether you support this text or not? Because as you have said, on the one hand, you are about really having tools for the revenue administration to stop the theft of public funds, as you called taxes and social security contributions. On the other hand, you spoke against para. 1 and 2, but actually para. 1 and 2 are the previous paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 2. 19 and that is them, with the addition in para. 2, on t. 1 and 2 give the specifics and limit the possibility for the administration to interpret at all what.. untruthful actions.. as a result of which the property has decreased, because here are described exactly these unholy actions and they are in.............................................................................. 1 et c. 2. We do in al. 1 and above all in para. 2 What you have spoken against, and I cannot understand, in fact, you are against the previous paragraphs 1 and 2 of art. 19 or are you against their clarification, and ultimately a precise clarification of what is the meaning of an unholy act, resulting in a decline in property? I couldn't understand you. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other lines? No. Here you go, Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u26	There is no way I would be against changes that would lead to a restriction on abuse. This categorically, as well as the BSP group, could not be opposed. At the same time, we must be aware that when we adopt certain provisions, they must first be sustainable and, secondly, should not be contrary to existing regulations and laws. Negotiate colleagues have mentioned some collisions with the Commercial Law. At the same time, these expanding powers, to give another example, enter into a Coliseum with the Commercial Law. Each owner, manager, proxy, prosecutor shall correspond to the amount of capital, respectively, to the amount of assets of the legal person concerned. Let us not create cases in a situation where their responsibility will be unlimited and not create a situation where, through these changes, by reaching a courtroom, once again, certain formations of administrative courts, because of such contradictions will make interpretations and certain revision acts fall and again do not achieve the objectives and effects that we are all seeking, namely to limit the abuse and the theft of public funds? In this regard, certain texts, which are now being proposed, I believe, will not result in the necessary effect. So in principle, I accept the idea, the spirit of change, but I do not accept specific provisions that would create in time definitely more contradictions than cover and clarify all the loopholes that are now being used to circumvent the cases of transfer of legal persons with huge obligations, as well as the the theft of value added tax, which unfortunately is a national sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u28	Procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u29	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u30	I would ask you, Mr. Chairman, from the high place where you are, to remind everyone present in this Chamber that those who have a conflict of interest should declare them before speaking from this platform.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u31	That's what I should do at the beginning of each meeting then. It's written in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u32	Well, it's nice to do it, Mr. Chairman, because some MPs forget about this duty.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u33	Here you go. Do you want a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u34	More like a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u35	Which line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u36	Mrs. Stoyanova's.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u37	There's no way in the way you're leading her to make a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u38	Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u39	What procedure? By the way, maybe?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u40	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u41	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u42	Let's follow the rules, let's not be out of the rules. It is obvious that all Members who speak must declare if they have such a conflict of interest. The practice of this parliamentary season has shown that this is hardly respected and I support Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's application to comply with the provisions of the Law on Conflict of Interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u43	Whether there's a conflict of interest or a lack of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u44	It is also written in the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Turnover. What's your procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u45	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u46	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u47	Dear Mr. President, you should not have allowed this bill in this House, as there is no impact assessment on it. But you allowed it and allocated it to join the Commission, and today we are looking at it in the Chamber. I believe that this is in violation of both the Law on Rules of Procedure and our Rules of Procedure, and it is vitiating the entire debate we are having right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u48	The impact assessment and whether it is consistent with an impact assessment shall be carried out in the committee dealing with the Bill. I assume you participated in the Commission meeting and there you have established.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u49	I said that at first reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u50	Are there others in the manner of conduct? Speech of the MP Dora Hristova, after her Vladislav Nikolov, after him Philip Popov. You have the floor, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! With the amendment of art. 19th para. 1 and 2, namely to drop the words as a person who, by virtue of a notarized power of attorney from the manager of a legal person, manages his overall activity and will be able to determine more precisely the persons responsible in the hypotheses of para. 2 and the same law, since previously there were no clear criteria in the Bill to determine when from the content of a power of attorney it can be concluded that the authorised person has the right to manage the overall activity of the trader. This also applies to the proposed change in para. 3 of art. 19, which reads: "The responsibility under para. 2 shall be carried out by majority shareholders or shareholders if the actions have been carried out on their own initiative, for which they are voted. I would like to take this opportunity to thank my colleagues from GERB, who after us made the same proposals as ours under this paragraph with a small difference in para. 3. It is good that they have listened to our motives when considering the first reading of our submitted proposals. But typically in their style, they offer at the last moment a very serious change that we can no longer react to in any other way than to vote against. This is the change in the new para. Eleven that my colleagues talked about before me. With it, they practically bring in the power of attorneys as solidarity responsible. With the proposed new para. 11 An irrevocably presumption that any person exercising the powers of governor shall also be considered to be a prosecutor; an irrevocably presumption that any person fulfilling the requirements of a commercial commissioner under Article will be considered to be a commercial proxy. 26 of the Commercial Law, even though it does not receive remuneration; unwarranted presumption that any person acting under the conditions of art. 301 of the Commercial Law without representative authority on behalf of a trader. In this way, the circle of the responsible persons under art. 19. Given that any factual and legal actions other than those falling within the competence of the General Assembly of Associates shall be included in the management's powers, the authorised person for any of the actions that the manager is empowered to act will result in an equalisation of the authorised person of a prosecutor and will therefore fall within the circle of those responsible under art. 19. This presumption also removes the difference that exists in the Commercial Law between the procurist and the person authorised to perform a specific action. In our view, it is unacceptable for a trader's employee authorised by the manager, for example, to withdraw amounts from the trader's account or to sign and submit documents which the trader is obliged to submit to the NRA, to equalise the responsibility of the procurist. In a similar way is the issue of expanding the circle of those responsible under art. 19 persons concerning any person who is equalized to a trading proxy under the new para. 11. And I give an example: an employee of the trader who signed a document for obtaining goods, on which basis an invoice is issued, the trader did not object immediately after the knowledge of this action and this employee by virtue of the presumption introduced falls within the circle of those responsible under art. 19. I insert here that Mrs. Stoyanova said that this is relevant when there is a crime, but in these cases at a later stage can also be found such a crime. In this way, the proposed change by GERB introduces another harassment of small and medium-sized businesses, another administrative burden and another bureaucracy, untying the hands for endless punishments of traders and ordinary employees. With the new sentence second proposed by GERB in art. 121a, para. 2, the bodies of fiscal control are offered...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u52	That's another text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u53	Why is it someone else?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u54	Please don't talk to each other! Mrs. Christova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u55	...to be able to impose collateral, not less than 10% of the market value of the goods.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u56	Isn't that another paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u57	Yeah, it's another paragraph, I'm moving on to the next change.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u58	You've got 10 seconds left. for the sequel.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u59	Then when the other paragraph comes!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u60	Mrs. Stoyanova, please don't call.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u61	Yeah, it's my fault. Excuse me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u62	Are there any lines? I won't. The People's Representative Vladislav Nikolov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our motives for the changes made to § 1 are related to supplementing and clarifying the existing DPKI arrangements. The main change is related to art. 19 of the PDK relating to the increase of third party liability for outstanding taxes and social contributions for the legal persons liable. The circle of persons who may be held liable under art. 19 of the AGPC, including persons who, under a notarized power of attorney from the manager of the legal person, manage all of its activities, so far, have little responsibility for the legal persons' tax and social contributions. It is also proposed to introduce liability to any person who, in the event of a hidden complicity, conceals commercial activity through an insolvency legal entity. This is also applicable in cases where the natural or legal person, whether owned by a commercial quality, operates through an insolvency debtor, trader or hidden agent. The analysis of the judgments of the audit acts under art. 19 of the APC shows that one of the most significant deficiencies and the reason for the annulment of these audit acts is related to the justification of the subjective party of the actions carried out by third parties, the so-called Plenipotentiaries and the causal link between their conduct and the outstanding liabilities. Therefore, in all paragraphs, we introduce requirements for dishonest conduct. This protects the interest of conscientious taxpayers. In view of the mass sales and transfer of commercial enterprises after the start of revision or a new para shall be created. 5 in art. 19 of the DODC, in which the notion of unholy conscience is defined by an unwarranted presumption. It is assumed that unscrupulous behaviour of a person is always when the action has been carried out after an inspection or revision has been initiated. All these changes in art. 19 of the PDK are related to raising tax collection and increasing the responsibility of people who carry out this type of activity. Because right now it's the ones who are the so-called powers of attorneys who are in charge. They are also the real owners of these companies, and do not bear any obligations for the actions that have led to unpaid VAT and tax contributions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I believe that here the problem in the Commercial Law began as soon as you introduced the requirement for BGN 2. minimum capital. Naturally, in one company, only one person or Ltd, at 2 BGN. capital will then be difficult to collect any claim not only in respect of tax liabilities, but any claim, since there is no capital in this company. Because it corresponds to the amount of its capital. Then you here in art. 19, you record that a trade commissioner, the prosecutor, a sales representative and so on is responsible for the tax or debt collected for an outstanding debt. So this is where this responsibility comes from now? At the moment when the trader concerned has been given to a public contractor, when the Commercial Register, on its current status, has already imposed the props or precautionary measures. None of those listed here in art. 19, it cannot carry out any action after there is a precautionary measure in place. This is ridiculous! On the other hand, if he could not carry out these actions before the imposition of this safeguard measure, before the trader was given to a public contractor, you, on the one hand, wanted to strengthen the trade exchange with the two leva capital and the possibility of registering multiple commercial companies, and on the other hand, here you are actually ending the trade turnover. Because everyone will be afraid in any way, because it is not specified here when this obligation arises, and if you think it is specified, it is simply pointless. Because it occurs after a lien has been imposed. In relation to para. 11, I think that absolutely legal concepts are mixed with regard to the powers of the manager, the commissioner, the trade commissioner. The Commercial Law explicitly states who is who and who has what powers. In order to be a commercial agent, a person should be authorised explicitly. It is required to carry out any action, the current status of the trader in the Trade Register and the explicit power of attorney. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 301 In practice you say that a commercial proxy is such a person who does not have a power of attorney or the power of attorney is withdrawn. That's ridiculous in itself. There is no such possibility that a person may be a proxy, a natural or legal person, without the possibility of a power of attorney at all, without a power of attorney in legal peace or being withdrawn, which is null and void. The actions carried out by those persons following the collateral imposed shall be considered invalid and shall not produce legal consequences. I think you know that very well. That's actually for al. 11. I think it is simply unacceptable, in such a way, to change the Commercial Law through DODK, and it is fundamental legal concepts! The mixing of these basic legal notions of responsibility, the occurrence and the lack of such responsibility, through the DPC is simply unacceptable and will disturb the trade turnover terribly! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u67	Mr. Popov, BGN 2. capital or 5000 leva. capital, whatever! We're talking hundreds of thousands of debts here. As for the precautionary measures, I don't think you've read the texts properly. Maybe you should read your al. 10. It says when the action is actually believed to have taken place. But I want to go back to al. 11, because I do not know if the people in this Chamber understand what the statements against para are against. 11. As a matter of fact, al. 11 enables to be held accountable by persons who are not prosecutors are not commercial commissioners as required by art. 26 of the Commercial Law to be entered as such. But in practice with power of attorney they perform these functions and these are those illiterate individuals who are authorized by the owners of the companies and through which the draining of the companies is actually carried out. Because then they can't bear any responsibility. But I think that the MPs on the left who spoke on this subject actually understand very well what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u68	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's right. 10 is the question, and I told you that the company will not perform any actions for 6 months and ends, bankrupt! That's what you're gonna do! Absolutely! And the next one. Who's responsible? Of course, the author because he empowers the proxy with powers that he has and he bears responsibility. He's responsible, not the commissioner! The Commissioner shall be responsible to him for the actions carried out and the actions not carried out, and the authorising officer shall be responsible for what he has replaced with the power of attorney. I gave an example before an employee, let's say to the Ministry of Interior, committed some illegal acts, who will be responsible? I'm sorry, but really, six months... Six months, al. What has this firm been doing for six months? No commercial activity! No one will dare to commit any action in these six months!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u71	I propose a procedure for separate voting on para. 11 of the remaining paragraphs. Since it was proposed later, to hold a separate vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. We are going to vote on the proposal by MP Georgi Turnovalyski, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 154 MPs: 51, against 21, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the proposal of the National Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs, which reads as follows: (a.k.a. 3 is amended as follows: The responsibility under para. 2 shall be carried out by majority shareholders or shareholders if the actions have been carried out at their decision, for which they have voted. The proposal referred to in point (c) shall not be supported by the Commission. They voted 161 MPs: 61, against 39, abstention 61. The proposal under the letter "in" is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Pencho Milkov to reject para. 11 of the Commission text. They voted 165 MPs: 64, against 65, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. This vote negates the proposed procedure by Mrs. Hristova, so I put to the vote § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 167 MPs: 110, against 10, abstention 47. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u73	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski for the creation of § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way The third party's responsibility is a participant in the legal person in question. Art. 19a. (1) The person participating in or participating in a legal person shall be responsible for the taxes or compulsory social contributions of the person in whom he/she participates, the collection of which has been avoided by means of instrumental transactions with the property of the debtor, when deciding on the conduct of which the person involved has voted in a manner and under conditions relevant to the decision taken. (2) The responsibility under para. 1 is up to the amount of the instrumental transaction which justifies the liability of the person in proportion to his participation at the time of the decision. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 1a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 words answer the members of the management bodies or their managers shall be replaced by the members of the management bodies.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u74	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u75	Mr. President, colleagues, I will make a statement to motivate our proposal. It is in the spirit of the proposal that we made and under art. 19. We've separated it into a separate article. 19a, referring to the liability of a third party, already here in this case a participant in the taxable legal person. We have divided the responsibility here by saying that the responsibility lies with the persons involved and involved in the management. So the assumption of this is the sale of shares, so we solve this case. At least that's what we wanted. In order not to allow a coup d'état interpretation or even abuse of the changes made to the provisions relating to majority owners and their liability, we offer responsibility for the decisions taken to bear the one involved or involved in authorising transactions which have been avoided or are difficult to collect taxes and social security contributions. We also propose, with the second subparagraph, that the responsibility be fair to the extent given in the instrument transaction. The meaning of the establishment of a public limited liability company is separation of ownership from management. The owners of each business are responsible for the risk of collapse of the business or its bankruptcy, which in many cases can be for purely subjective reasons. The changes made to the PDK in respect of majority owners shall transfer the risk of non-payment of taxes and social security contributions. The caselaw in this regard clearly states that the status of art. 19th para. 1 of the DPC is not a means of overcoming the inaction of the public debt collection administration. The proposed changes do not solve the problems, on the contrary they are trying to transfer responsibility elsewhere, where the problem is not. Maybe that'll get us into a lot of trouble. An opportunity shall be given with these texts and for administrative pressure, and arbitrage, the danger of arousing many audit proceedings and subsequent judicial proceedings, in many cases against persons who do not intentionally harm a fissure. That is why our proposal is that the legal persons involved are responsible for the tax and social contributions obligations of the person in whom they participate or have been involved, the collection of which has been avoided by means of instrumental transactions with the property of the debtor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u77	I couldn't help but get a line, Mr. Turnover. What do you suggest? The person involved or involved in a legal person... Well, these are the owners of this face, aren't they?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u78	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u79	Yeah. ... are responsible for the tax and social contributions obligations of the person concerned, the collection of which has been avoided by means of an instrumental transaction with the property is not clear what and how it has been avoided and so on, if they have participated in a decision. What if they voted against it and they're minority owners? If they have not voted in this, but are minority owners, they will be responsible for your proposal. Dear colleagues, what we voted in the previous article. 19, in fact, are the new paragraphs of third to tenths which resolve the issue of liability of owners, legal persons and those owners of majority who must be liable, and those owners who have become minority owners as a result of the fact that on several occasions they have transferred cases to become majority minority owners, but only those who have been involved and by their voting for the latter have made decisions with which they have damaged the property and from there they have created prerequisites for nonpayment and non-payment of taxes and social security contributions. I think the text you are proposing, Mr. Turnovalysky, is better to withdraw it, because it is not in the interest of taxable persons, as you have just claimed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u80	Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Turnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u81	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, thank you for the analysis of the text, but it is clear here who was involved and who was involved. He was involved, in the sense that even if he sold his shares, he transferred them, he was responsible for his participation in the time when he was involved in those instrumental transactions. That is the point, and I believe that this is also the point of the applicant to be responsible for the person transferring property when it cannot then be collected, or it will be difficult to collect debts arising from the company's activities. We're talking here at the end of the day about the majority owner who had nothing to do with it. The person involved or involved in the debtor. These are all the individuals involved. Who's in it, Mrs. Stoyanova?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u82	All owners.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u83	All owners. Of course, everyone. Yeah, anyone who's damaged is to be held responsible. That is the point and that is written in this text. I don't expect you to accept it, even more so. 2 where it is written: the responsibility under para. 2 is up to the amount of the given. You missed that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u84	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I put to the vote a proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Turnovalyski, not supported by the Commission. They voted 146 MPs: 60 against 55, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2 with its respective content in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 145 MPs: 142, none, abstention 3. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u85	Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski for the creation of a new § 1b: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 after the words................................................................................................ In addition, 19a is added, and the words.. respond to the members of the management bodies or their The Commission does not support the proposal. I suggest the other, Mr. Chairman, as it is also...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u86	Mr. Turnovallisky, it's about creation. Are you withdrawing them?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u87	I'm withdrawing them both.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u88	You withdraw both of them, it doesn't make sense to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. Under § 3 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 73, para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." the provision of data in the exercise of mutual assistance and administrative cooperation, including the exchange of information, under the terms and conditions of Chapter 16th, Sections IIIa, IV, V and Section VI, Chapter twenty-spoken 2. A t is created. 6: It's six. the provision of tax and security information to the debtor concerning the data declared by and for him and the data contained in his tax account by means of a telephone service after identification of the person carried out in a row designated by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u90	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 3 and 4 on the Commission report. Vote 149 MPs: 137, against 10, abstention 2. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u91	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 4a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by For the purposes of complex administrative services, competent authorities shall require and receive by electronic means from the National Revenue Agency information on the existence or absence of obligations of persons other than non-compliances, as well as deferred, deferred or secured obligations. The order of requirement and provision of information shall be determined by the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u92	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 5 and 6 on the Commission report. Vote 150 MPs: 148, no objection, abstention 2. Paragraphs 5 and 6 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u93	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the 1. In para. The second sentence is created: "When collateral is provided in accordance with art. 176c of the Value Added Tax Act, the amount of collateral is not less than 10 percent of the market value of the goods. 2. In para. 3 after the word "stostos" is added "save 10 per cent."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u94	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u95	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! With the new sentence second proposed by GERB, in art. 121a, para. 2, it is proposed that the fiscal control authorities may impose a guarantee of not less than 10 percent of the market value of the goods and in cases where such collateral is already imposed in accordance with art. 176c of the Value Added Tax Act, regulating collateral for supplies of liquid fuels. In this way, first of all, a security is once again regulated for the same commodity, which we think is unacceptable. Secondly, it is not clear, as the text says, less than 10%, the upper limit cannot be higher than 30%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u96	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the proposed changes in art. Art. 121a and its related article. 127a, para. 3 expands the scope of one of the strongest weapons provided in the hands of the tax administration. However, I would like to draw attention to a problem that, in our view, concerns, above all, small and medium-sized businesses. The problem in question is caused by the current regime of increased tax control for certain types of mainly fast-moving goods identified by the Minister of Finance as high fiscal risk goods. Naturally, the main objective of such a scheme is to prevent, above all, tax evasion and tax fraud. The so-called "fiscal control', in general, empowered the revenue authorities to carry out a number of actions on the movement of goods at high fiscal risk, such as stopping the means of transport by which these goods are carried, checking the documents of the goods, placing technical means of controlling the means of transport and others. However, the most important power given by the special scheme of the revenue bodies has proved to be the envisaged possibility to impose the so-called pre-emptive safeguard measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u98	This statement is not related to the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u99	It is related to the text, Mrs. Stoyanova, that with the subsequent order of the goods the collection of the due will be impossible or significantly difficult. Those preliminary precautionary measures amount to 30 per cent of the market value of the transported fiscally risky commodity. As you can see, these so-called pre-emptive measures are in fact allowing the tax administration to collect the taxes due for each transaction before it has even been carried out. Unfortunately, we have received information from many affected companies that the practice of the NRA in implementing the precautionary measures in question is, to put it mildly, contradictory and not consistent with the purpose and meaning of the Law. We also received the practice of the courts, which are empowered by law to exercise control over the legality of the imposition of precautionary measures and our concerns have been fully confirmed. After the analysis of the caselaw in question, we can highlight two major issues...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u100	Mr. Chairman, this speech is not on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u101	Please, Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u102	... in the application of the so-called safeguard measures. The first major problem in our opinion is rooted in the incorrect application of the norm of art. 121a, para. 3 which allows fiscal control authorities to take action to secure the evidence. Although the norm and in its current version makes it sufficiently clear that the freezing of evidence in question is a accompanying measure and may be necessary only after we have imposed a preliminary lien by a decree of a public contractor, the revenue authorities continue to provide evidence at present by seizing or securing a commodity before there is a decree issued by a public contractor. In all the court orders that we have reviewed, there is a strong statement that the practices in question... [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] The subject is connected, Mrs. Stoyanova. Please have a little patience! [[Reply by National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] It's connected!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u103	Please, colleagues, quiet in the room! [[Heckling]] People's representative Danchev is talking about art. 121a, para. 3, which is exactly the subject of the text we are discussing. Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is obvious that fiscal control is an important element of the instruments of the tax administration, but its use should be done according to the logic of the law and not according to the needs of the tax administration. In the event that the tax administration had difficulties in applying the norm, it should not simply extend the scope of the goods to which fiscal control is applied but seek a solution in respect of procedures. In this sense, we are ready at the next stage to propose, if necessary, a change in this part of the law. We pay attention to the authorities to respect and apply the law correctly and to pay attention to the caselaw on the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u105	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u106	I understand that the previous gentleman actually made a big statement against fiscal control and the possibility that the tax administration has on it. He declared himself against this fiscal control.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u107	Who introduced this fiscal control? When was this control introduced?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u108	Yes, a good question from the Chamber: who introduced fiscal control? Who? [[Heckling]] What is fiscal control ultimately fighting against? For illegal imports of vegetables, of meat, of all kinds of food, of other goods and you know it very well, the imports that affect the Bulgarian producer with the unfair prices on the markets. Is that what you're fighting against, gentlemen?! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't know what you're fighting against.!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u109	You haven't been listening to me very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u110	No, I listened very carefully. I'll also ask for a procedure, Mr. Chairman, in the manner led, if you'll allow me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u111	Yes, after the current procedure is exhausted. If there are no other lines, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u112	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, please don't put words in my mouth that I didn't really use, as there is no logic in saying that one of us is against fiscal control, on the contrary. [[Reply by National Representative Diana Yordanova.]] Yes, you are! You haven't been listening very carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u113	Please, Mrs. Yordanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u114	What I am saying is that fiscal control is a very efficient, good tool in the hands of the tax administration, but its implementation should not be done according to or against the law. These are different things! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u115	Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u116	Mr. Chairman, I ask that the procedure be in the manner of conduct, because the statement really concerned art. 121a, para. 3, but in fact, what is currently proposed for discussion and voting is only the addition in para. 3-10 per cent concerning goods under customs procedure. I absolutely believe that you should have stopped this speech because it is beyond the specific subject. After all, we are at the second reading of the DOPC report, not a review of the text of the DOPC at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u117	I would agree if it said 10 percent, but it says no less than 10 percent, which means that anything that is more than 10 percent can be discussed. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any other statements? I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7 in the Commission report after being supported by the same. Vote 147 MPs: 93, against 53, abstention 1. Paragraph 7 of the Commission report has been adopted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 8 with its respective content on the Commission report. They voted 146 MPs: 100, against 3, abstention 43. Paragraph 8 has been accepted. Dear colleagues, let us congratulate our guests from the town of Kardzhali who are currently leaving the balcony. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u118	Under § 6 of the importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Dora Hristova and a group of MPs: In § 6 art.127a para. 3 to go. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the importer's proposal and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127a, para. 3 shall be added at the end within the meaning of the applicable customs legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u119	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u120	The proposed new version of the parliamentary group of GERB in § 6 concerning art. 127a of the DPC, excluded from fiscal control goods under customs procedure within the meaning of the Customs Act. At the same time, evident from the promulgated amendments to the State Gazette, No. 58/2016, in the Customs Act were repealed as follows. 10 of § 1 of the Additional Provisions on the definition of customs procedure and the corresponding texts of the Customs Act governing individual customs procedures. Therefore, we believe that a reference to legal rules already repealed is inadmissible. Apart from that, we consider it incorrect and the very proposal of the Council of Ministers as an importer, which aims to introduce on excise goods and fiscal control by the authorities of the NRA in the order of the DCC. With regard to the movement of excise goods, there is a detailed regulation in the Law on excises and tax warehouses and the introduction of control by another administration leads not only to the aggravation of the conditions for carrying out the activity, but also to a lack of clarity how the provisions of the two laws will be applied.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The colleague who spoke earlier, much of his speech referred to this paragraph in art. 127a, as Mrs. Stoyanova mentioned. She herself said that fiscal control is mostly about fast-moving goods, vegetables, fruits and so on. We therefore see no point in why excise goods should also be subject to this fiscal control. We change our proposal and propose that it remains the old text of DODK, as it has been before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u121	That is, you do not accept what the Commission proposes in the report. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are voting for a proposal made by MP Dora Hristova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 142 MPs: 14 against 58, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 9 on the Commission report. 140 MPs voted: 127 against 1, abstention 12. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u122	The Commission shall support the entries of the importer for § 7 to § 20 by importer, which shall become paragraphs 10 to 23 by the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u123	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u124	Only one editorial proposal: in § 18, para. 3 is recorded at the opening of a new account of a natural person or an entity providing information a financial institution may use a statement from that person received under art. 142l and 142p, unless he knows or has reason to know. I suggest there's a reason he knows to fall, it's just illogical. Make it sound like unless he knows or knows only that the declaration is false. What do you mean there's a reason for him to know? What reason is that, where did it come from? It's purely editorial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u125	In fact, even if there's a reason, he'll still know. [[Relations between MPs Philip Popov and Menda Stoyanova.]] Come in, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u126	I just want to say that we are talking about texts for transposition of a directive and they are thus written in the directive in two hypotheses: it knows or has the opportunity or reason to know.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u127	Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u128	That's a bad translation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u129	I understand that this is how the directive has been transposed. It's about translation and meaning, if there's a reason to know, he should know. It's just illogical. In Bulgarian this is the literal translation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u130	Are there any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Philip Popov. Please vote. They voted 130 MPs: 53, against 16, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 10 to 23, including on the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 134 MPs: 130, none, abstention 4. Paragraphs 10 to 23 including the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u131	Paragraph 21 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 143, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 52 of the Banking Act is replaced by a "c'. 62 of the Credit Institutions Act, insurance secret within the meaning of art. 149, para. 1 of
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u132	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 24 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 138 MPs: 138, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 24 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u133	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 22 to 41, which in the Commission report are paragraphs 25 to 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u134	I put to the vote paragraphs 25 to 44 inclusive. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 25 to 44, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u135	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group for the creation of a new § 41a, which the Commission supports. The Commission proposes to create a new § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 155, para. The second sentence is created: "When the limitation period has expired in the course of the revision procedure and an objection to an expired limitation period is respected, the decision body shall rule on the basis and amount of the obligation, stating explicitly that the revision act is not enforceable.'
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u136	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 45 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. Paragraph 45 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u137	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 160, para. 4 A sentence 2 shall be created: "When the limitation period has expired in the course of the audit proceedings and there is an objection of an expired limitation period, the court shall rule on the basis and amount of the obligation, expressly stating that the revision act is not subject to enforcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u138	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 46 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 46 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u139	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 178, para. 6 is created sentence two: "When payment is made with a payment card via a POS terminal device, including virtually, in accordance with art. 4, para. 3 of the Law on the limitation of payments in cash, the payment is considered to have been received on the day of the authorization of the order for payment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u140	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 47 with its respective content on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 141, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 47 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 42 to 51, which in the report become respectively paragraphs 48 to 57, as well as the name of the Paragraph 52 by importer, which becomes § 58. Paragraphs of an importer from 52 to 56 shall be renumbered in the relevant paragraphs 59 to 63 and shall follow their specified system, as below we will specify.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u142	I put to the vote paragraphs 48 to 58 including, as well as the name of, the division,..transitional and final provisions. Please vote. They voted 145 MPs: for 144, against none, abstention 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u143	We are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group which the Commission supports and, which the Commission proposes to create in a new § 60, namely: The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency within one month of the entry into force of this Act shall determine the order for the provision of tax and security information through a telephone service under art. 73, para. 2, p. 6 and the order of requirement and provision of information under art. 87, para. 11. Mr. Chairman, I am proposing that in a room, the word "one month" be replaced in "six months."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u144	Wait a minute. [[The Commission's expert shall submit a new report to the President.]] Here you gave me a new report with a new numbering and I don't know where this new numbering comes from. [[The expert from the Commission, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova and the Chairman specify the numbering of the paragraphs away from the microphones.]] I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u145	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. Ms. Stoyanova, we voted to § 58 on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u146	We voted to § 58 on the Commission report. Mr. President, I am reporting a proposal to the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova to create a new paragraph, which the Commission supports and the Commission proposes to create a new § 60, even though the report is § 59.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u147	You leave it with the old numbering, then they'll renumber it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u148	............... 59................................................................... The Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency within one month of the entry into force of this Law shall determine the order for the provision of tax and insurance information by means of a telephone service under art. 73, para. 2, p. 6 and the order of requirement and provision of information under art. 87, para. 11. Here I propose from the stands of the National Assembly the one-time term to be replaced by the six-month term.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u149	That's good, and report to § 56 by importer including.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u150	I report paragraphs 53 to 56 by importer, which are respectively paragraphs 60 to 63.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u151	Paragraph 56, you propose to become § 58 before the division "Transitional and final provisions." Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u152	Paragraph 56 by importer to become § 58 and to pass before the title
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u153	From then on, the numbering will be reflected in the Final Texts. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There aren't any. First, I put to the vote the proposal in proposals for a new Paragraph 59 to replace the word "one month" with "six months" as proposed by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova of the Parliamentary Tribune. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: for 93, no objection, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the new paragraph which has just been reported, together with the change adopted, to become a six-month vote. Please vote. The paragraph will become the corresponding number after rearranging in a few minutes. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The Commission's proposal to create a new paragraph, together with the change that has just been made and adopted, has been adopted. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 53 to 56, including by importer. Please vote. They voted 116 MPs: 116, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraphs 53 to 56 by importer have been unanimously adopted. I put to the vote the proposal of § 56 importer to become § 58 in the Commission's report in order to take its systematic place in the Law before the Department of Transport and Final Provisions. Please vote. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u154	I report paragraphs 57 to 59 by importer, the Commission supports them and proposes that they become paragraphs 64 to 66 by report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u155	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 64 to 66, including, on the Commission's report. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 64, 65, 66 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u156	According to § 60, there is a proposal by the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov in the "Transitional and Final Provisions" § 60 to be dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal of the National Representative Volen Siderov and a group of MPs..................................................................................... Art. 1, art. Three down. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the National Representative Yordan Tsonev and a group of Members of the National Assembly................................................................................... Art. 1, art. Three down. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Georgi Turnovalyski. The Commission supports the proposal. There is a proposal of the MP Dora Hristova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports the proposal under point 1. 2. I'm going to read this now. 1, namely: The following amendments shall be made in § 60: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 concerning Art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 is amended as follows: (a) in point (a) the word "July" shall be replaced by "December" and in point (b) "August 2017" shall be replaced by "August 2017" by 31 December 2017 and shall be replaced by "January 2018"; (b) point (c) and point (d) shall be deleted; The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 60, which shall become § 67: ................. In the Law on limitation of payments in cash (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) New para. are created. 3 and 4: Ordered via a virtual terminal device POS or through terminal devices POS payments on payments administered by the National Revenue Agency public claims shall be individually opened to that effect by the Agency in the Bulgarian National Bank. (4) The services of the card payments under para. 3 shall be carried out by the payment system operator with settlement finality under para. 2 on the basis of a contract concluded between him and the National Revenue Agency. (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 5 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list: c) the current para. 4 becomes para. 6 and in it the words by para. The following shall be replaced by the following: 4 and 5 (d) the current para. 5 becomes para. 7 and in it the words by para. 1 and 3 are replaced by.................................................................................................. 1, 3 and 5 (e) the current para. 6 becomes para. 8 and in it the figure 3. Paragraph 3a shall be inserted in the transitional and final provisions: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The contract referred to in art. 4, para. 4 between the National Revenue Agency and the Bulgarian National Bank-licensed payment system operator with finality of settlement shall be concluded after the Bulgarian National Bank has notified the National Revenue Agency that the requirements of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems have been met.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u157	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In our proposal, which is not supported by the Commission, with the agreement of the other importers, we are making an editorial supplement after § 60, we add. Art. 1, art. 3, which practically becomes the same as the proposals of the MPs Volen Siderov, Yordan Tsonev and so on, i.e. you do not need to put this to the vote. I use the case that I am only here to give one of the arguments why I think this attempt to reduce cash payments should be dropped for a very simple, simple reason. On the border, when you enter any country or enter Bulgaria, you have the right to up to 10 thousand. lv. undeclared money, which basically means that we allow people to import up to 10,000. BGN, but we're limiting them to spend them all at once. For this and for many other reasons, this is one of the things that seems to me to be sufficient as an argument to support our proposal is that we take into account the proposals of the other MPs and you do not need to vote on our own separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u159	Thank you. You're withdrawing it in practice, the way they've done it entirely. Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u160	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What do we suggest? We propose that the regulatory threshold for limiting cash payments in the country be reduced to 5 thousand. lv. Why? We believe that this is a major measure to limit the grey economy, and there is hardly anyone against it. The proposal to limit payments in cash is also in line with the common practice in the European Union. The measure will also limit the possibility not to reflect in the accounting of undertakings cash flows relating, on the one hand, to realised revenue from sold products, goods and services and, on the other, to pay salaries and salaries for which the compulsory social contributions are not accrued, withheld and paid, respectively, taxes. Where is our place now and what do we suggest? Among the countries with legal restrictions, I will mention only: Belgium.3,000 euros, Greece. 1500 euros, Italy. 3000 euros, Portugal.1000 euros, Romania... 2260 euros, France.. 1000 euros. I think you can support our proposal, and I think it's appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u161	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear colleague Krastev, I very much hope that the limitation of cash payments is not really the main measure to combat the grey economy. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasen Krastev.]] You said this was the basic measure, I'm sure you may have made a mistake. There are many other measures and levers that can influence this, and I do not think that this is precisely what we will achieve in this way the expected struggle or tackling the grey economy. We're not the only ones in parliament who say that. In this spirit is also the answer of the European Central Bank. Since we are proposing these measures and saying that they will lead to a limitation of the gray economy, it was good to present an analysis here, to show how they will affect, which revenue they will influence. It was also good to make an assessment that there is no assessment of the entire bill, and this is a big problem. [[Heckling]] Yeah, there's no impact assessment. Moreover, this text is already being changed for the third time or is being done for the third time such an experience It is good here in this case, since we want to go further down, to have a follow-up assessment and to say that for this one year, as a result of the change, we have achieved such results and therefore we propose to be at 5,000. [[Heckling]] No, there are no such texts, there is no such evaluation! We just thought it was a basic measure. Once again, no, it's not a basic measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u163	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Second line, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal made by GERB to limit cash payments to 5 thousand. BGN, there is no need for such justification. You see, the fisk is working, the treasury is filling up. Let me just ask the colleagues on the left who don't support him...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u165	The line is to Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u166	Yeah. To tell Mr. Krastev that if we limit these cash payments, there is an empirical measurement that shows that by reducing cash payments to 5%, i.e. they are added to bank payments, the grey economy shrinks to 3%. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u167	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u168	It is with this complex of measures, and this is one of the main "grey economy shrinking" so that there can then be money to raise wages, to make pensions and other social payments. Because we cannot think only in the spending part of the budget, and we are walking in a complex way, we are going towards this direction to limit the grey economy so that there is more money in the treasury so that these funds can then be allocated to the lags of social payments and the annexation of salaries and pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. And the third line is Mrs. Taskova's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u170	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The only motive for this restriction, to the extent indicated, is dealing with the grey economy. It is absolutely for the fight against the grey economy and we will continue to fight for it. And we would support you if we didn't realize that this would create more difficulties for both business and ordinary people, and it wouldn't contribute to dealing with the grey economy. That'll raise the inter-company debt. And it will also raise the cost of bank fees. We all know very well that, and at the moment that doesn't want to pay at a bank, just cut your invoices into smaller ones, so you will only raise the document turnover and the inter-company debt. I think there are a lot more mechanisms that we can fight with the gray economy and that's not one of them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u171	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, Mr. Turnover, really lapsus lingua is probably the main one, not the only one. Thanks for the remark. But I also agree with colleague Alexander Ivanov, who correctly mentioned some of the actions that would arise. Regarding the colleague from Volja.. it can really be thought in both directions, but not in every commercial site there is a POS terminal, but again, this will be a good argument and a good reason to limit again this gray part of the economy, with which, I repeat, we from GERB are fighting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u173	Thank you, Mr. Krastev. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I do not agree with Mr. Krastev's claim that the limitation of payments will reduce the grey economy. Why? Because when a legal entity pays up to 10,000. BGN, it always takes an invoice as it uses VAT as a tax credit. There isn't one that pays up to 10,000. lv. and don't get an invoice. In addition, very often it is abused by a fact that, you see, companies had a lot of money on a cash register that settled. Well, of course, if he's declared income, there's gonna be cash in a cash register. So I think it should stay 10,000. BGN, because even in small settlements, if we introduce less restriction, it can cause inconveniences of legal and natural persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u175	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Mrs. Christova, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! No one paid attention to the fact that, apart from all the other reasons they raised to keep the amount of 10,000. lv. as a ceiling for cash payments, it should be noted that this will contribute the most to increasing revenue in banks, because in this way there will be a lot of increases in fees against individuals and the fees of companies from small and medium-sized businesses, as we should not forget that when the natural person is paid by card even in some banks, I already have information that a fee is paid by the natural person, but fees are paid by traders that are not at all, vary from 0.5 to 2.3%. So I would like to draw attention to the fact that perhaps this is again a proposal of the banking cartel to increase their income and cash flows in banks, as you know that interest rates in Bulgaria, if taken into account and fees, are negative on deposits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u177	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! How many times do we mention how difficult it will be for individuals to reduce the cash payments by 10 thousand on the new threshold that GERB offers 5 thousand. lv. Well, think about it, individuals how many times a year they're going to make a payment we're talking about one time over five thousand. lv. Who's bothering this thing? It's people with cash money, undeclared income. They're worried about this thing. The ordinary citizen, once he makes such a payment in the year, will not be difficult in any form. We'd rather the grandmothers throw their money through the windows of the impostors than spend it in a bank. So this argument for individuals that it would create difficulties for them to pay $5,000. lv. We don't agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u179	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mrs. Christova, will you use your right to dodge? Apparently not. Here you are, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This shameful bargain has been going on for many years now. Here at the heart of the whole drama are, as I have always said, liberals in Bulgaria, who, if they fall, will liquidate the money in cash at all and will only move on to free payments. There is a fantasy about a society, in the future, I will not quote authors and titles that suggest this. But let's not rush into the future. Such are the realities and the thesis of GERB is absolutely irresistible. The one I've heard many times. You have no argument. Whatever you say and let's tell the truth are the banks that are the sacred cows of the Bulgarian economy and the banks are pressing. It is not enough that the interest we give on loans is so high and the interest they give us as importers is so low and the margin is so high. It is not enough that now from the fees that are being paid for the payments, the banks earn as much as in any other country and it comes out securely to profit, as anywhere else in the world, as in Bulgaria, but they want more and more. And that's still going to happen by reducing the threshold to 5,000. lv. I remember the previous edition of the problem. Then the arguments were similar. How are we going to get closer, colleagues, to the ordinary citizens who keep their money in cash, who are so used to it and that's normal for them? To get them to go to those virtual payments and money that you dream about and were fine. It's all sly, don't be fooled! There are powerful banking interests here. Now the bankers stand and wait for our decision and hope and rejoice if the money becomes BGN 5000 because it will be more money in their hands. These are going to be even bigger profits, these are huge profits. Because in Bulgaria, what is so profitable? The most profitable thing in Bulgaria are the banks. Banks, as you know, are foreign. See how the bargaining started? It was clear that we wouldn't fall for what we started? How old did it start at the beginning of the 2000 BGN? Oh, yeah?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u181	1000 leva, 1000 leva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u182	A thousand leva? So what's the game? A thousand leva as in an old joke, I will not quote it so black was 1000 leva. For the people, and, come on, now we're gonna negotiate, we're gonna make sure it's not so scary, and it's gonna fall to £5000. £10,000. £5000. [[Reply of MP Delyan Dobrev.]] No, I'm not telling you the joke, I'll tell you the joke later! So none of the importers here imagined that things would go to BGN 2,000. As in a bargain, the prize dropped very low to 2000 BGN, and, well, let's raise it to 5000 BGN. The two thousand leva, however, are a legacy dream. Like a few years ago, he'd hit on himself a couple of times, hit on him, hit on him, and at some point at £5000. We'll start with 500 or 1000 levs to go to 2,000 levs. And in the slightly further future, we'll move on to a completely free payment, including to buy bread. So don't be fooled, come on, let's stay 10 000 leva, although it is and they are few, and at some point we will have to think about and raise this amount for the free payments. By the same logic that we're doing now, we're going to propose at some point to raise it to £20,000. And here, after a bargain, we're going to go to £15,000. at the first stage, then back up the scale. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u183	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u184	Dear colleagues, the limitation of payments in cash is not the only one, but it is part of the complex measures which we all here in this House have voted in the years back to limit the grey economy. This complex of measures gives its results. Only for the six-month period of 2017 the income from taxes and insurance contributions compared to the same period last year is more than a billion more. A significant part of them is also due to the measures the government and the revenue agencies take to curb the grey economy, smuggling, unfair competition. Where are we, after all, with the restrictions on cash payments? It has been quoted here that the European Central Bank is against it. Thus, it opposes, rather gives considerations about the low threshold of 1000 leva, which is 500 euros, but the European Central Bank supports that there should be a limit on payments in cash. It is no coincidence that 15 out of 28 Member States of the European Union have such restrictions on cash payments up to EUR 3000. In 13 of them the limits are up to 2500 euros, i.e. 5000 levs, the equivalent of 5000 levs. Here on the left there was a MP that I do not see today and who always wanted us to ask the question: Where are we in Europe and the other European partners? Many considerations were raised that the proposed amount of the threshold of 5000 BGN. it'll make it difficult for ordinary people in small towns. That's funny. It's just that ordinary people in small towns don't make one-off deals for over BGN 5000. There's no such deal! [[Reply.]] There is if you buy a super plasma TV, only people from small settlements do not buy such TVs, as according to statistics 70% of Bulgarians receive below the average wage for the country. We will not limit and create difficulties for ordinary people, but we will limit and create difficulties for people whose pockets are filled with cash money, and they have come from the grey economy, not elsewhere. Because they got their wages on black because they're owners and managers of companies that sell without documents and who want that money to continue to spin in the gray economy. It's very strange to me that suddenly the people's representation has become so unanimous against this sakun, don't touch the cache more than £5000.! The arguments of ordinary people, arguments of small business. You know, there was an interview on the radio this morning with small business people? People said, "Yes, 1000 leva. It'll be too low, 1,000 leva. It'll make it hard for us, but 5,000 leva. is one amount of money to be paid. That is why we from the parliamentary group of GERB propose the ceiling to be 5000 BGN. and enter into force on 1 January 2018. I do not know whether, here in this House, we will be able to vote on this proposal by watching you unite and how you enter this House more and more to vote against this proposal?! It probably won't work. But I will remind you here from this tribune, when you stand up and ask for pension costs, social payments costs, security costs, wage costs. Costs, expenses, expenses! Because it's very good for voters' ears. But when we talk about revenue, when we talk about gray economy, about non-payment of taxes and insurance, we start to say: "Ama, fiscal control is harassing them, but cash payments are harassing them! Ladies and gentlemen, you must think like politicians. Only that you think more of it as businessmen, because not a small part of the talkers are more businessmen than politicians, and perhaps they do have the bitter experience of how a limitation in payments will make it difficult for them, to say the most so, to sound pleasant to everyone. [[Reply.]] I'm not sitting down now! I'll sit down when I decide and when my time is up!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u185	Ah, you've run out already.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u186	It's Vidov Day, guys! [[Noise and lines.]] In a little while, when we vote, we will see who is for competition because the grey economy feeds unfair competition... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u187	Mrs. Stoyanova, the weather!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u188	...and that's where he hits small and medium businesses. Who's for cash money and businessmen's pockets...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u189	Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u190	...we'll see on Vidovden Day. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u191	Thank you. First of all, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Stoyanova! The fight against the grey economy is not with the limitation of payments in cash but is with the control that the relevant institutions do on whether the relevant documents are issued in payments, whether cash notes are given, whether invoices are written. And everything else that you so patheticly said was clear: yet another of your behaviors we will offer something that we hope none of you will accept. That is exactly what you are doing right now, Mrs. Stoyanova. You are proposing something and you hope that it will not be accepted. If you remember two weeks ago, passing by our turn, you asked us to submit a proposal to remove this text from your proposal. So be honest, be this woman who keeps her word, passing between the lines, and sitting here in the front. Don't transfer one thing that sounds beautiful maybe to someone, but you know it's wrong. Once again, fighting the grey economy is not fighting the cache, as you say. It is a matter of control, a question of how the revenue agencies organise their work, a question of how the control bodies verify whether payment documents are issued, a question of whether the relevant agencies verify how and what contracts are being made, and how these employment contracts are paid, whether they are paid at their real price. Cash won't help you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u193	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Stoyanova, it is clear that from the United Patriarchs we have a proposal of 10,000. lv. Clearly, it's not going to be 5,000. lv. But I can't explain one thing: how you will tell farmers who pay rents in most of the elderly, how Grandma Ivanka from the village of Bulgaria will get 6000 BGN. From the rent with the card, by the bank? And how will he spend it in the village of Balgarka, where there is no POS terminal or ATM? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Sabanov. Mr. Gokov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I ask you not to suggest from the stand that whoever votes against your proposal is almost for the grey economy. There's no such thing. Every vote against your proposal is a reasonable voice. Normally, a thinking person would vote against your proposal. I want to tell you a very brief thing. You said we'd talk about revenue, revenue, revenue, increase that, increase that. I say that I will personally vote for your proposal and I will work the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria to support it if you go out on the stand and now in the back of the table say:.. By reducing the threshold for payment in cash, it will give us an opportunity in the autumn when we enter the next parliamentary session and when we talk about the new budget, to increase the pensions by exploiting them............................. if you say this................................ Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. A hole, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u198	I'll take only two of Mr. Tasco Ermenkov's speeches. Yes, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, I was against £1,000. And 3,000 leva. I continue to object because I believe that this is an extremely low threshold and it would really make it difficult for ordinary people. Please be correct as a colleague and as a neighbor on a road! As for the last offer, you understand that by limiting payments in cash of 10,000. $5,000. lv. There's no way we can get $1 billion. 200 million. lv. As much as it takes to increase pensions as you offer them? The reduction of the threshold for cash payments is part of the entire set of measures leading to additional revenue and which are ultimately used for expenditure. No one here paid attention to a simple thing that the competition from which small companies cry, the prices that companies can afford by importing and selling different types of products at a lower value that ruins our agriculture, all of this is also a function of cash payments because they are in the spiral, power supply and unfair business. Think when you vote, multi-directionally. It's not always black and white, we don't always have to stand alone and just look at one side. We need to look for the opportunities of what we offer for the budget, for the revenues, after all, precisely for these ordinary small people in the small business, from the private business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u199	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We were just talking about expenses here. Budget expenditure is made when there is revenue and revenue is when there is trade when there is economy. You are doing the opposite of having revenue in the budget. These revenues are not achieved by the draconian measures that you are betting here in the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the DODC, on the contrary, you will thus stimulate the grey economy. Back at §1 you did that thing. Because with these draconian measures, the responsibility of all the persons who are in the same company, be it managers, prosecutors, sales commissioner and so on, let's not list them all, even with the initial registration with capital of BGN 2. they will point to one manager, a straw man, an avatar, as you would like to call him, a sales commissioner, all who are authorized to perform any action on behalf of the company, which are underprivileged, illiterate in most part, and will do whatever they want. This is exactly a blow to smaller companies, to those who are loyal companies and pay taxes, pay their social security, because you block them from their commercial activities, as well as with this proposal. I wonder what changed since New Year's Eve, when Mr. Goranov here for half an hour and more convinced us of 10,000. BGN, as in my memory?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, on this topic, please pay attention to a practice that will be very useful to you if you analyze it. It's about the recycling industry, the waste sector, the waste management sector, the limit for cash payments is BGN 100. [[Reply.]] That's right, it was introduced as a measure to combat the gray sector. It is good to analyse whether the really gray sector is shrinking or the opposite is happening: companies have started mass transactions in another way......................... that is a long subject, I can explain it to you in a private conversation..... or the grey sector has been increased? In fact, this measure... [[Laughter, excitement and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u203	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u204	It's just a long conversation. This analysis will be extremely useful. I'm trying to get inside the head of an employer who works disloyally, in gray and without documents. When the threshold of non-cash payment is reduced, it does not comply with the law, does not respect it. What does this employer say? Hey, they changed the law, now I'm starting to pay with papers of light. Hardly, this guy doesn't follow the law. In this case, the measure will strike the loyal ones, will strike those who work in the light, as it did in the waste sector. Analyze what happened there with the introduction of this extremely low threshold of 100 BGN. for cash payments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u205	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Mr. Ermenkov withdrew the proposal we had to vote on. There remains the part of the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, namely. 1 which is not supported by the Commission. We are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs in the part not supported by the Commission. Vote 184 MPs: 73, against 98, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u206	Mr. Chairman, there is a technical error in the report: in § 67, in point. 1 after the word "in" should be added. And then let's move on to para. 1. It'll work: in art. 4, para. One... and so on. It's missing art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u207	Art. 4 is missed, it's written al. 1 without a reference to a Article. We vote on the editorial proposal. Vote 181 MPs: 160 against 3, abstention 18. For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply: 4 of the Law on the limitation of payments in cash is a fact. I shall put to the vote the text of the Commission in accordance with its report on § 67. Vote 186 MPs: 169, against 1, abstention 16. Paragraph 67 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u208	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission proposes to establish § 68 with the following wording: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Public Procurement Act (prom. DV. No. 13 of 2016, amend. and dop. DV. No. 34 of 2016), the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 229a: supplier of technical specifications Art. 229a. (1) In the exercise of the powers under art. 229, para. 1, t. 5 and 14 on the verification of technical specifications, the Public Procurement Agency shall be assisted by external experts, specialists in the field concerned. (2) External experts shall be included in a list maintained by the Public Procurement Agency, which shall be published on the Public Procurement Portal. (3) The conditions and procedures for the designation of the external experts under para. 1, as well as their payment, shall be determined by a decree of the Council of Ministers. 2. In the transitional and final provisions: (a) in § 28 the words (b) in § 29: (aa) c. 1 the words "Article 39', which shall enter into force on 1 July 2017, shall be replaced by "Article 39', which shall enter into force on 18 October 2018, (bb) c. 2 (a) (u) the words " (u) 1 July 2017'; are replaced by (c) c. 3 words "swept 1 July 2017" shall be replaced by "swept 18 October 2018."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u209	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u210	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! We will again be principled and consistent in our position. We believe that the submitted bill, which we are currently looking at the Public Procurement Act, is in gross violation of the rules that we also have of the Law on Legislative Acts. Included between the two readings, without being discussed, without having passed at first reading, admitted to the Commission today in the Chamber. If the proposal was only under this Bill, which is understandable why it is being tabled, because there are deadlines on it that have already expired, there is a problem for the public contracting entities, serious problems, then for us it is inexplicable why the other texts should be rushed, as is the Law on excises and tax warehouses. What is so important that time should happen and pressure us so that between the two readings we can propose these changes and adopt so quickly such important texts? Our principle position is that we will not participate in this vote because some of the texts, as is the text under the Public Procurement Act, are really important, but in principle it has to end with this bad practice, which at certain times has put us in very serious difficulties and the administration that must implement the decisions that we make in this House. I just want to comment on the Public Procurement Act, § 28, and if anyone can answer me. The deadline is changing until 18 October 2018. Very interesting, we could not implement July 1st, we have now determined the exact day "18 October 2018, maybe at 17.42 pm. We absolutely state that we will not participate in this circus. This is a mockery with the National Assembly, it is a mockery with us, the MPs who are here to vote, to debate, to be sent, not to throw texts between the two readings of such important laws.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u212	Dear Mr. Turnovalliski, 18 October 2018 is the last date under the European Union directive for introducing the electronic platform. You know that this platform feels sorry for our Public Procurement Act, the complaints point out that we are the maximum possible deadline so that we do not have to be in default again. As for the other part of your speech, you in the Commission said that this was illegal, unconstitutional, and you promised me in this House that you would give me texts of law, of the Constitution, of the Rules that are doing this illegally. You forget, Mr. Turnover, it's actually the gym that decides. The Members of the National Assembly here in the Chamber are the people who decide by their vote for........................................................................................... They make certain texts, no matter when and how they are imported, valid or not. The House's sovereignty is expressed by its vote, which will follow shortly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u213	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Turnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u214	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, here are the two texts, so that I do not waste the time of my colleagues in this Chamber, to read to you the texts of the Law on the Rules of Procedure and the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. You just intrigued me with your conclusion that the House might not comply with the law. You've reached a peak I didn't expect, least of all from you. October 18th, nicely recorded, wishful thinking, but with all the experts in this area I've talked to, they say that's just not gonna happen. It won't happen, and most likely the way we're going will lead to new problems. With regard to the fact that there is some decision of the Constitutional Court on the legality of the decisions taken on these texts of the Law on Legislative Acts, I believe that since 2006 the reasons are different, all the more so that the Constitutional Court has clearly and clearly stated that in these cases the decisions are unlawful.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u215	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any other statements? I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to establish § 68 with its content on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: 99, none, abstention 12. Paragraph 68 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u217	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph, which the Commission supports. The Commission proposes to establish § 69 with the following wording: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law on excise duties and tax warehouses makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Chapter 2, Section II is created art. 12a: Art. 12a. It is a kind of smokeless tobacco product which does not have a process of burning the tobacco contained in it and the use is carried out by heating it, as a result of which an infusion is released. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 3: The tax base for excise duty for a hot tobacco product is the quantity of tobacco contained in the product measured in kilograms. (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2: The effective rate for heating tobacco products is BGN 152. per kilogram. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 para. 1 is amended as follows: The duty rate for cigarettes is as follows: 1. of the specific excise duty: a) BGN 101 at 1000 shorts from 1 January 2017; b) BGN 109 on 1000 shorts from 1 January 2018; 2. of the proportional excise duty: (a) 27 percent of the sales price from 1 January 2017; (b) 25 per cent of the selling price from 1 January 2018 (b) 25 per cent of the sales price from 1 January 2018 (b) 25 per cent of the sales price from 1 5. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 103c: Art. 103c. All persons, regardless of whether they are taxable under this Law, who accept, land, store or export energy products from ports and customs warehouses, shall be obliged to use means of measurement and control under art. 103a of the sites for the introduction and removal of energy products in the site concerned, as well as of the storage sites for energy products in the site.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u218	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 69 with content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 69 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u219	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. On this proposal, as well as the subsequent one, Mr President, we have an additional report. Please move on to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u220	We're passing through.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u221	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes the following version of the new paragraph, which in the report becomes § 70: ...... 70......................................................................... (1) The requirement of art. 48, para. 2, p. 21 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses shall not apply to the persons referred to in art. 47, para. 1 of the same law which applied for the issue of a licence for the management of a tax warehouse until the entry into force of the ordinance under art. 142a, para. 3 of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks. (2) The requirement of art. 57, para. 3, p. 9 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses shall not apply to the persons referred to in art. 56, para. 1, t. 1 of the same law, which filed a request for registration of a specialized small distillery establishment until the entry into force of the ordinance under art. 142, para. 3 of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks. (3) Paragraphs 1 and 2 shall also apply to proceedings under art. Art. 48, Art. 57 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. (4) The Office shall be responsible for the official proceedings under art. Art. 48, Art. 57 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses where, until the entry into force of this law, there is a piece of paper for not presenting a document that the distillation facilities for the production of ethyl alcohol, distillation and spirit drinks were purchased by a person registered under the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u222	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the version of § 60b, which shall become § 70 in the Commission's report. They voted 109 MPs: 100, against 5, abstention 4. Paragraph 70 of the Commission's Additional Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u223	There is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission proposes the following version of § 60c, which becomes § 71. seventy-seventy-seventy-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-sixty-six. (1) The persons who until the entry into force of this law carry out the activities under art. 142a, para. 1 of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks shall be registered within one month of the entry into force of the ordinance under art. 142a, para. 3 of the Law on Wine and Spirit Drinks. (2) The Minister of Economy shall issue a regulation under art. 142a, para. 3 of the Wine and Spirits Act within one month of the completion of the notification procedure under Directive EU 2015/1535 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 establishing a procedure for the provision of information in the field of technical regulations and rules on information society services.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u224	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of the Commission for § 60c, which shall become § 71 in its report. Please vote. We are voting § 71 on the Commission's Additional Report. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 71 of the Commission's Additional Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u225	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 72: ................. In the Law on administrative regulation of production and trade in optical discs, matrices and other media containing objects of copyright and related rights (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 t. Two is canceled. 2. A new para is being created. 5. The Interdepartmental Committee on Art. 31 requires by official means from the National Revenue Agency information about the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code for the trader concerned. 3. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u226	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 72. Please vote § 72 on the Commission report. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 72 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u227	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 73: .............................................................................. In the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 21c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 t. 3 is canceled. 2. The creation of para. 6: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 21e, para. 1 requires by official means from the National Revenue Agency information about the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for the legal person or sole trader concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u228	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 73, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Paragraph 73 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u229	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 74: ................ 74.................................................................. In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 167 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 t. Two is canceled. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The National Building Control Directorate shall require by official means information from the National Revenue Agency on the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code for the trader concerned. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3, 4, 5 and 6 become respectively. 4, 5, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u230	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 74 on the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 74 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u231	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 75: ................................................................................... In the Law on Food (prom., SG No. ...) in art. The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 3 t. 1 is canceled. 2. The creation of para. 4. The Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall, by official means, request information from the National Revenue Agency on the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code for the applicant concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u232	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 75 on the Commission report. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. Paragraph 75 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u233	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 76: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Control of Drugs and Precursors (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 32a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. Seven is canceled. 2. In para. 3 after the words "Self of health" is added "Securities" by the National Revenue Agency information about the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for the person concerned applying for the licence and the claim.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u234	We are voting § 76 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. Paragraph 76 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u235	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 77: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Tobacco, Tututeneva and related products (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 37 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. Four is canceled. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The Council of Ministers shall require, by official means, information from the National Revenue Agency on the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code for the applicant concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u236	We are voting § 77 on the Commission report. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 77 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u237	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 78. ..in art. 9, para. There is a technical error here, Mr. Chairman, please, instead of aal. Read.................................................................................................. 21s and 21s shall be amended as follows: ...... 78............................................................................ In the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 9th para. 21 is amended as follows: The circumstances of para. 19, p. 1, 2, 5 and 6 shall be certified by the relevant competent authority under para. 19, p. 3 with information on the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, and under para. 19, p. 4 and 7 with a declaration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u238	We vote after the clamp,... in art. 9, read, read, read. 21s, and after the quotes is again the circumstances..................................... the circumstances........ and so on. Please vote. Vote 97 MPs: 96 against 1, no abstentions. Correction of error accepted. We are voting § 78 together with the amendments that have just been made. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 78 is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u239	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and group. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 79. ....... 79........................................................................... In the Law on Radio and Television (prom., D.C., No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 t. 3 is repealed; (b) the creation of para. 4. The Council for Electronic Media shall, by official means, require information from the National Revenue Agency on the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code for the applicant concerned. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116b, t. 1 shall be added at the end with the exception of the information under para. 4 which is required by official means. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 116e, para. 3 shall be added at the end with the exception of the information under para. 4 which is required by official means. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 125a, para. 2 shall be added at the end with the exception of the information under para. 4 which is required by official means.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u240	We are voting § 79 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 79 is unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u241	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group for the creation of a new paragraph. The Commission proposes to establish § 80. sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Private Security Activities (prom., D.V., No. ...) in art. 15 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." In para. 2 t. 3 is canceled. 2. A new para is being created. 7. The Director of the Directorate-General of National Police is required by the National Revenue Agency by official means information about the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code for the respective applicant trader and unlimitedly responsible partners in a command or assembly company, or a legal person. 3. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u242	Are there any speeches? No. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 80, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 80 of the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u243	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group for the creation of a new paragraph in the Law on the Chamber of Builders, which is supported. The Commission proposes to establish § 81. ........ 81...................................................................... In the Law on the Chamber of Builders (prom., D.V., No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 t. 10 is amended as follows: ..10. information on the circumstances under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 3, p. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) the creation of para. 4. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). 26 requires by official means from the National Revenue Agency information about the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code for the applicant concerned. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 the words "and certificate of existence or absence of public liabilities for the expired year' are deleted; (b) the creation of para. 3: Within the time limit laid down in para. 2 Committees under art. 26 requires by official means from the National Revenue Agency information about the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code for the Builder.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u244	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 81 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. Paragraph 81 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u245	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and a group supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 82. ............................................................................... In the Currency Act (prom. DV., No. ...) in art. 11th para. 2 is amended as follows: In the event of transfer of money of 30 000 leva. or more or their equivalent in another currency across the border of the country to a third country, customs authorities shall require by official means the National Revenue Agency information on the existence or absence of obligations under art. 87, para. 11 of the Tax Code of Procedure for the person concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u246	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u247	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, these texts that we have just issued, this is the last of them, are practically the first texts on administrative reform to ease business and people. You see that all the time we talk, you know that here, all these laws require references that people and business have to do at the National Revenue Agency, to extract documents that certify the lack of obligations. That won't be the case anymore. Information will be required by official means, and I thank the National Revenue Agency for being ready to deliver it quickly... Yes, don't laugh, gentlemen, because the National Revenue Agency is this administration that was the first in the state to electronize almost all its services and continue to do so at an accelerated rate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u248	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 82, in accordance with its report. Please vote. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 82 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u249	Paragraph 61. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the importer's proposal and propose the following version of § 61, which shall become § 83: ........ 83...................................................................... (1) The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. paragraph 64, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2022; 2 par. 68, p. 1 which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018; 3 paragraph 68, p. 2, which shall enter into force from 30 June 2017; 4. paragraph 69, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018; Paragraph 5 (71), para. 1 which shall enter into force from 26 April 2017; 6 paragraphs 72 to 82, which shall enter into force two months after its promulgation. Mr. Chairman, here I am making a proposal for a correction and this point. 6 I propose that it be voted as follows: "6." paragraphs 72 to 82, which shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 Within a period of two months from the entry into force of this Law, the regulations containing an obligation to present a certificate of existence or absence of obligations by persons shall be brought into conformity with it. And here I am making a second suggestion, Mr. Chairman, that the word "monthly" be replaced by "six months."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u250	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the first proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova from the parliamentary tribune: in para. 1 of § 83, t. 6 to look the way you were introduced. 90 MPs voted: 84, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the second proposal made by the MP Menda Stoyanova from the parliamentary tribune: in para. 2 the word "monthly" shall be replaced by the word "six months." Vote 94 MPs: 84, none, abstention 10. And the second proposal is accepted. I put to the vote the text of the importer for § 61, edited by the Commission, becoming § 83, and just adopted two proposals under para. 1 and para. 2. Vote 79 MPs: 77, none, abstention 2. Paragraph 83 of the Commission's report has been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND THE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND DISCLOSURE OF CANDIDATES IN THE TROAD COMMISSION, SOCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE CANDIDATES OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE TROAD, SOCIAL AND DEMOGRAPHIC POLICY. A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, which will introduce you to the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u251	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 19 July 2017 discussed and discussed a draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results 18 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following draft decision (with the three annexes of declarations accompanying it): Project! DECISION adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 37, para. 1 of the Code of Social Security and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute and presenting their documents. 1. Proposals as governor of the National Insurance Institute shall be made by Members of Parliament or by parliamentary groups. Bulgarian NGOs can make proposals as governor of the National Insurance Institute to the MPs and parliamentary groups. When a MP or a parliamentary group makes a proposal based on a proposal from a non-governmental organisation, it shall note that. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee through the President of the National Assembly within 14 days of the adoption of procedural rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals as governor of the National Insurance Institute shall be accompanied by written arguments that justify the high professional and moral qualities of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the Decision; (b) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex No 2" to the Decision; (c) a detailed CV; (d) a diploma for completed higher education; (e) a criminal record; (f) a statement by the applicant that there are no circumstances under art. 39, p. 1, t. 2, p. 4 et c. 5 of the Social Security Code, according to template "Annex 3 to the Decision'. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The submitted proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 7 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy no later than three days before the hearing of candidates on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked. 4. The media may send to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy questions to the candidates to be asked. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Alexander I " No 1, Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, or by e-mail: ktsdp@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army is made by the Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Hearing of candidates 1. Before listening to the proposed candidates, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates comply with the relevant requirements for the post for which they are proposed. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates for the manager within two minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates as governor present their concept of the activities of the National Insurance Institute "up to 15 minutes per candidate." 5. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates as governor in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates within two minutes of the Member of the National Assembly for a candidate. After the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly are exhausted, the applicant shall be in charge of up to 10 minutes. 6. The Chairman of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy shall ask in summary the questions of the persons under art. 93, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received. 7. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented. If several candidates for a position have been heard, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee shall draw up a report from the hearing of the candidates, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names and shall submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by drafts and decisions for the selection of each candidate as governor of the National Insurance Institute. 9. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not stop the procedure. The procedure does not stop when there is no candidate for the post. V. Election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute by the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 3. The importers of proposals shall present the candidates as manager within two minutes for each candidate. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The National Assembly shall elect the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for the post, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for the post have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes for the post shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates for the post receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the post shall take part. 9. If none of the candidates for the post receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 10. When one of the candidates for the post refuses to participate in the election before voting on his candidacy by the National Assembly, and he is the only candidate, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. 11. If there is no candidate for office, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The draft report is attached to Annex 1 to the Decision, Annex 2 and Annex 3 according to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u252	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches. I don't see there's any desire for that. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the importer. Please vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u253	They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The rules of procedure have been adopted. The draft decision has been adopted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Preschool and School Education Act. National representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. We propose that this will be the first point for tomorrow "21 July 2017," in line with what we agreed at the Conference of Presidents. The reports have been handed out to you. Please vote. They voted 111 MPs: for 107, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u254	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u255	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the deadline for a proposal for amendment and supplement of the General Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act should be reduced to three days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u256	Thank you, Mr. Tinchev. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. We proceed to the vote on the procedural proposal made. Please vote. 110 MPs voted: 72, against 23, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u257	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I propose a procedure on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be extended to three weeks for proposals to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u258	We have not yet discussed and adopted the bill at first reading, Mr. Ivanov. [[(Laughter) Replices.)]] You're getting ahead of yourself. Wait, we're just about to go to the polls. Honourable Members, we begin next item: DISCLOSURE OF FIRST READING OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ELECTRONIC DOCUMENT AND ELECTRONIC SIGNATURE. Here you go, Mr. Rykoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u259	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I propose that they be admitted to the Chamber: Mr. Dimitar Genovski "Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mr. Veselin Bozhkov "President of the Communications Regulation Commission; Mrs. Neda Koycheva and Mrs. Katherine Sevlievska " respectively Directors of the Communications Regulation Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u260	Thank you, Mr. Rykoff. I shall put to the vote the admission procedure made in this Chamber. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. Please invite the persons admitted to the Chamber. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u261	Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 12 July 2017, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature was discussed, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Mrs. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Chairman of the State Agency of Electronic Governance and Mr. Veselin Bozhkov, Chairman of the Communications Regulation Commission; Mrs. Andreana Atanasova and Mrs. Irina Romanska, Members of the Communications Regulation Commission; and Mrs. Irena Borislavova Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian Accreditation Service. The bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. Mr. Ivanov stressed that the main objective of the bill is to bring national legislation regulating the provision of electronic certification services in accordance with Regulation (EU) No As a result of the proposed changes, the structure of the Law will cover the following main divisions: electronic statement and electronic document, electronic certification services, supervision, accreditation of conformity assessment bodies, protection of personal data and administrative criminal provisions. Regulation (EU) No are to provide that devices for the creation of qualified electronic signatures and devices for the creation of qualified electronic seals are to be certified in order to ensure their compliance with the requirements of the Regulation. The certification will be carried out by persons designated by the Member States. The Bill proposes the national accreditation body "The Executive Agency" to define the certification organisations. With the proposed version of art. 19 of the Draft Law by reference to Regulation (EU) No are introduced the general concept of a certification-service-provider, as well as the specific category of qualified certification-service-providers. The bill shall also specify the requirements to be met by certification-service-providers in carrying out their activities, including additional requirements for qualified certification-service-providers under art. 24 of Regulation (EU) No but not yet published in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Mr. Ivanov noted that the draft proposed that the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC) be the National Supervisory Authority exercising the powers under Regulation (EU) No In this regard, the Commission's explicit power to obtain information from certification service providers for the performance of its functions as supervisory authority and to participate in joint investigations with supervisory authorities of other Member States is also regulated. With the proposed new version of art. 32, para. 4 The Communications Regulation Commission is also entrusted with the activities of establishing, maintaining and publishing the national trust lists of persons providing certification services and qualified certification services. Unlike the current regime in force in accordance with Regulation (EU) No are, the bill provides that certification-service-providers are not subject to accreditation. In accordance with art. 21 of the Regulation, if a supplier decides to offer one or more qualified services, has to notify its intention to the supervisory authority, the Communications Regulation Commission, and apply a conformity assessment report drawn up by a conformity assessment body. The Communications Regulation Commission will have to verify whether the supplier and the services provided by him comply with the requirements of the Regulation and, in a positive assessment of these circumstances, to grant him qualified status and to include him in the trusted lists within three months of the supplier's notification. Mr. Ivanov pointed out that the proposed amendments provide that, following the inclusion in the trusted lists, qualified certification service providers will be subject to periodic audits at least every 24 months for their own account by a conformity assessment body. The proposed amendment of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature shall specify and complement administrative and criminal provisions, providing for the imposition of property penalties and fines for infringements of specific provisions of Regulation (EU) No The Law proposed amendments to a number of laws that refer to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. In the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, opinions have been received in support of the Draft by the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the Ministry of Economy, the State Agency for Electronic Governance and the Communications Regulation Commission, and some of them offer precision of individual texts. After the presentation of the bill was held a discussion in which the people representative Pavel Hristov, representatives of the Ministry of Economy and the Communications Regulation Commission took part. Mr. Hristov supported the Bill, stressing that the new framework in the field of electronic transactions of goods and services will create prerequisites for future development of digital infrastructure, improve the quality of public services and speed up the development of electronic governance in the Republic of Bulgaria. Debate raised the question of who is responsible for implementing the bodies established in art. Art. 30, § 2 and art. 31, § 1 of Regulation (EU) No are the obligations of Member States to inform the European Commission of persons authorised to carry out conformity assessment activities of devices for the creation of qualified electronic signatures and devices for the creation of qualified electronic seals, respectively on devices certified under the Regulation. The bill provides for this body to be the Executive Agency of the Bulgarian accreditation service. Mr. Bozhkov supported this approach and disagreed with the opinion of the Ministry of Economy, which proposes the Communications Regulation Commission as a national authority, the implementation of Regulation (EU) No Art. 30, § 2 and art. Paragraph 1 of the Regulation. Following the debates held on the Draft Law and the opinions expressed, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, unanimously proposed by 20 votes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 27 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u262	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. This was the committee's report. You have the floor for a report by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u263	Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs on 25 June 2017. At its regular meeting held on 19 July 2017, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. The meeting was attended by Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport and Rosen Zhelyazkov, Chairman of the State Agency for Electronic Governance. The bill was presented by the MP Stanislav Ivanov. It aims to bring national law in the field into line with Regulation (EU) No arena of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC; establishing conditions for the development of digital infrastructure; improving the quality of services provided by the public sector; facilitating business and citizens' cross-border access to the internal market. In the area of competence of the Commission falls to Chapter Four, the accreditation of conformity assessment bodies. Unlike the current regime, certification-service-providers will not be subject to accreditation. A supplier who has decided to offer one or more qualified services shall notify the Communications Regulation Commission as a supervisory authority and shall apply a conformity assessment report drawn up by a conformity assessment body. The Commission shall verify whether the supplier complies with the requirements and, in the case of a positive assessment, gives it qualified status and shall include it in the trusted lists. The period for this shall be three months from the submission of the notification by the supplier. After entering qualified service providers on trusted lists, they shall be subject to periodic audits on their account, at least once a year, by a conformity assessment body. A conformity assessment body may carry out that activity after accreditation. It shall thus be certified that the person concerned is competent to carry out conformity assessment. The accreditation of conformity assessment bodies is envisaged to be carried out by the Executive Agency "Bulgarian accreditation service" which is a national accreditation body. In addition, accreditation may also be carried out by an accreditation body of another Member State or a country country under the Agreement on the European Economic Area. After presenting and discussing the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature at first vote, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs on 25 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u264	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Following is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. It will be presented by Commission President Christian Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u265	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I think we should think a little bit about the procedures and this reading of committee reports, but, anyway, the rules should be done. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 19 July 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs. The bill was presented by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov, Member of the National Assembly, and Mr. Rosen Zhelyazkov, Chairman of the State Agency. This bill proposes implementing measures for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No are proposed by the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services for electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93/EC. The direct application of Regulation (EU) No would require the repeal of an essential part of the provisions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature (SEDEP) set out in the Regulation. According to the reasons of the importer, the new system in the field of electronic transactions certificates in the EU market is aimed at creating prerequisites for future development of digital infrastructure and improving the quality of public services. It is envisaged that the uniform legal framework will lead to trust in the online environment and thus encourage citizens and public authorities to carry out electronic transactions and provide electronic services. Following the changes made, the structure of the Law will include the following main divisions: electronic statement, electronic document, electronic certification services, supervision, accreditation of conformity assessment bodies, protection of personal data and administrative criminal provisions. In order to achieve the above objectives, a number of changes are made in the PEDEP, including: in art. Art. 3, para 1 and art. Article 19 shall be amended by reference to that provision of Regulation (EU) No 18a and 18b; the rules in force in art. Art. 21 and art. 22 shall be amended or removed, and such issues shall be offered on the issues outstanding by the Regulation; art. is repealed. Article 24; in art. 25 changes shall be made with regard to the issue of qualified certificates. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 it is explicitly stated that the Communications Regulation Commission is the national control body carrying out the supervision of the activities of certification-service-providers. It is also entrusted with the activity of establishing, maintaining and publishing national trust lists of persons providing certification services and qualified certification services. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para.1 shall be referred to the national authority, the Executive Agency, the Bulgarian accreditation service, which is intended to designate the organisations that should certify the devices for the creation of qualified electronic signatures and stamps. In order to complement and refine the Transitional and Final Provisions of the bill, amendments to a number of laws have been proposed which refer to the PEDEP. Last but not least, it should be noted that the importer aims to bring the national legal framework relating to the provision of electronic certification services into line with European legislation through the amendment and supplement bill. The desired result of the adoption of these changes is to include the Republic of Bulgaria in a long-term organizational, management model for interoperable infrastructure for public services in Europe. In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds addressed Mr. Stanislav Ivanov with regard to the reasons why the bill should be tabled by MPs instead of by standard order through the Council of Ministers. Mr. Ivanov informed that the deadline for implementing the regulation in the Bulgarian legislation had passed on 1 July 2016 and thus will speed up the adoption of the bill in order to avoid criminal proceedings. In view of the above, and as a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed by 8 votes of the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature, No 754-01-32, submitted by Stanislav Stoyanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u266	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. For an opinion on behalf of an importer, please welcome Mr. Valentin Milushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u267	Madam President, honourable Members! The draft Law on the amendment and supplement of the Law on Electronic Documents and Electronic Signature aims to bring national legislation regulating the provision of electronic certification services by Regulation (EU) 2015/104 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on electronic identification and certification services in electronic transactions in the internal market and repealing Directive 1999/93 EC. The direct application of Regulation (EU) 2015/114 requires the repeal of the essential part of the provisions of the WTA on matters governed by the Regulation. We believe that the Bill will contribute to the future development of digital infrastructure, improving the quality of online services, secure, reliable and easier to use, increase confidence and security in the online space, ensuring legal certainty in online transactions, encouraging citizens, business and administrative bodies to carry out electronic transactions and providing electronic services. The bill is subject to the concept of technical and technological neutrality of the instruments and mechanisms used in the provision of electronic certification services in accordance with the principles set out in Regulation (EU) The bill establishes rules and a national scheme concerning supervision and auditing of the activities of certification-service-providers and the provision of qualified certification-services. As a result of the proposed changes, the structure of the Law will cover the following main divisions: electronic statements and electronic document, electronic certification services, supervision, accreditation of bodies for the survival of compliance, protection of personal data and administrative anti-criminal provisions. According to the amended structure of the Law, the standards relating to the secret of data and the contesting of statements in the use of certification services have found a new systematic place in Chapter 3 of the Law. Art. 18a. 18b. In them, unlike existing art. Article 14 15, the hypotheses of all certification services are included, not only of electronic signatures, para. Article 11 on the creation of art. 18a and 18b, and para. 7 concerning the cancellation of Art. 14, 15. With the proposed amendment of art. 21 The requirements to be met by the certification-service-providers in carrying out their activities, including the additional requirements to the qualified certification-service-providers, according to art. 24 of the EU 910/2014 Regulation In accordance with the extended scope of the Law, a change is proposed in the name and regulation of Section III, Chapter 3, and the provisions cover not only certificates of qualified electronic signature, but all qualified certificates under Regulation (EU) 2015/114. As an important legal change, we define the reaction of art. 32, paragraphs 1 and 2, in which it is explicitly stated that the Communications Regulation Commission is the national supervisory authority exercising the powers under Regulation (EU) 2015/114, including to grant and revoke the qualified status of the certification-service-providers with which the Republic of Bulgaria fully fulfils the requirements of art. 17, Part I, sentence two of the EU 910/2014 Regulation The detailed reasons for all the necessary legislative changes in our view are detailed in the reasons for the TID of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. Finally, we would like to point out that the adoption of the Bill will play the role of instrument for the inclusion of the Republic of Bulgaria in a long-term organisational and management model for an interoperable infrastructure for public services in Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u268	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Just three years ago, a regulation was voted on, which concerns electronic identification and certification services in electronic transactions in the internal market. Until last year, this regulation had to be adopted in Bulgaria, but we are one year late from the deadline we had to meet. The bill aims to amend and supplement the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature by translating the national legislation relating to the provision of electronic certification services in accordance with European legislation. By doing so, we will enable the creation of prerequisites for a future development of digital infrastructure and to improve the quality of services. I believe that, although late, the bill will carry out the task that importers are doing, and I propose that we vote on the tabled bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u270	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. I put to the vote the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Electronic Document and the Electronic Suppression Act on First Voting. Importers are Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 28 June 2017. Please vote. Vote 124 MPs: for 123, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Subev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u271	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! The procedure shall be based on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the I request that the deadline for proposals under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature be extended to three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u272	Thank you, Mr. Subev. Is there a reverse offer? I can't see. We are voting on the proposal for an extension. Vote 119 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on our agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR STATE AID. I ask for a reading of the report by the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u273	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, I will present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe under State aid bill No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. At a meeting held on 13 July 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the State Aid Bill submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the following representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Boyko Atanasov The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Atanasov, who stressed that the 43rd National Assembly adopted by consensus on the first vote the State Aid Bill. On the basis of the supported version are reflected all the comments and suggestions received by the working expert groups of the Ministry of Finance and the National Assembly. Re-establishment of inter-agency coordination has been carried out. The proposed State aid bill does not entirely present a new framework with regard to the procedural rules on State aid, does not modify the existing order conceptually, but precises it, complements and updates it in line with the requirement of the State aid regime at European level and the modernisation of State aid rules. The main changes from the current one are: - a legal order is introduced to recover unlawful and incompatible aid; - a mechanism has been developed for legal proceedings to challenge an act granting State or minimum aid, as well as for those affected by the granting of unlawful aid third parties; - the introduction of basic principles to be followed when granting State or minimum aid; - coordination and control of State aid is improved; - changes in terms of terminological and practical precision have been made. In the discussion the national representative Svetla Bachvarova, speaking in support of the bill, asked a question in whose powers is the procedure for recovery of unlawful State aid, who will establish this unlawful aid and what size it will be. To the questions asked a comprehensive answer was the representative of the Ministry of Finance Margarita Borisova. It clarified that coordination with regard to the recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid under a decision of the European Commission is within the competence of only the Minister of Finance, with the competence of the actual recovery of State aid within the competence of the NRA and the person establishing the amount of aid is the relevant administrator of aid. It is precisely the new provisions of the Law that govern the entire procedure which, when, within what deadlines, under which conditions recovers unlawful and incompatible State aid. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................... 20 MPs, no................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the State Aid Bill, No 702-01-6, tabled on 3 July 2017 by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u274	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. A report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food follows. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u275	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the State aid bill, No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 5 July 2017, discussing the State Aid Bill, No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017. The Commission's work was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Rumen Porozhanov Minister. From the Ministry of Finance: Vesela Daneva A full preliminary impact assessment according to the methodology established by the Council of Ministers has been applied to the Bill. The draft and the reasons for it were presented by Vesela Daneva, who stressed that it does not change the materially existing order of granting aid and that the nature of the procedures, the competent authorities and the powers of the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry are generally preserved, as well as the exchange of information and coordination. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry will continue to monitor, coordinate and interact with the European Commission in the field of State and minimum aid in agriculture, rural development, forestry and hunting and fisheries, developing the content, parameters and mechanisms for providing and controlling all types of aid. In addition, the Minister will assess the impact of the aid, send the notifications, prepare the annual reports to the European Commission, give opinions and participate in the activities of the European Commission's working bodies, within the scope of its competence. An order shall be established to assess the amount and to recover unlawful and incompatible or incorrectly used State aid. The mechanism is introduced to ensure the implementation of the Commission's negative decision on the replacements of land by the State Forest Fund for Land. A number of legal definitions of concepts, including the concept of a help administrator, are introduced and are described in its powers. It is proposed to draw up the acts establishing infringements to be carried out by officials of the Agency for State Financial Inspection under the State Financial Inspection Act. The agency will issue the penalty warrants as well. A legal challenge mechanism is set up for an act to grant State or minimal aid and to deal with complaints and claims of challenge by third parties. From the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs (United Patriarchs) proposed that the examination and voting of the Bill be postponed until the Committee on Budget and Finance is decided. At the beginning of the meeting a similar proposal was received by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria in the form of a procedural proposal for dropping the item from the agenda. It was put to the vote and rejected. Therefore, the proposal of the United Member States was not re-voted. In conclusion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 10 votes in favour of the Council of Ministers No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017, proposed that the National Assembly not adopt the Draft State Aid Act No 702-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 July 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-20.u276	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. That was the last report today. There are two more to be presented and discussions on this topic on the agenda at the next sitting. Communications on Parliamentary Control follow on 21 July 2017, Friday at 11.00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer two questions from the MPs Petar Vitanov and Nikolay Tsonkov. 2. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski. 3. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Pavel Shopov and Vasil Antonov. 4. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer thirteen questions from the MPs: Vasil Antonov, Stefan Burgeev and Chavdar Velinov; Altimir Adamov, Manol Genov and Ivan Chenchev; Georgi Tarnowaliski and Manol Genov [[three questions]] ; Pavel Shopov, Todor Baychev [[two questions]] ; Ilian Timchev and Atanas Kostadinov; Bogdan Botsev, Lubomir Bonev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 5. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer four questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva, Ivelina Vasileva, Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva; Petar Vitanov and Teodora Halacheva. 6. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Donka Simeonova, Nina Mitkova, Anelia Klisarova and Veska Nencheva, and two questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ivo Hristov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Stoyan Mirchev; Halil Letifov, Errol Mehmed, Sergei Kichikov and Ihsan Halil. 7. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer six questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Stoyan Mirchev, Zhelyo Boychev [[two questions]] ; Georgi Tarnovalyski and Lyubomir Bonev. 8. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer one question from the MP Gergana Stefanova. 9. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Turnovalyski, Martin Tinchev and Dimitar Alexandrov; Daniela Maleshkova and Vladimir Valev. 10. Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer six questions from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva [[two questions]] ; Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; Atanas Kostadinov, Adrian Raykov and Radostin Tanev; Pavel Shopov, and a question from the MPs Hristo Grudev and Zhivko Martinov. 11. Interior Minister Valentin Radev will answer one question from the MP Violeta Jeleva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question by the MPs Rumen Gechev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question by the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to four questions from the MPs Nina Mitkova, Boryana Georgieva, Hristo Grudev and Miglena Alexandrova [[two questions]] and three questions with written answer from the MPs Teodora Halacheva, Ahmed Ahmed and Krasimir Jankov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions written by the MPs Desislava Todorova, Alexander Alexandrov and Krasimir Velchev; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova to two questions from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Nikolay Tishev; Petar Kanev and Todor Bajchev [[two questions]] • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov [[two questions]] ; and Krasimir Jankov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - a question from the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov; - three questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov, to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov and to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; - two questions from MP Miglena Alexandrova to Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform, Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva and Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Health Nikolai Petrov and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozanov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to the use of leave, the Minister for Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Next meeting, tomorrow at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
