ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u1	I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, I present to you the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 20 September 2017. 1. Election of members for the judges' and prosecutor's colleges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. The selection procedure is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly on 31 May 2017. 2. Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 14 September 2017. 3. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the management of the investment and of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board, Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer of the Budget and Finance Committee on 15 September 2017. 4. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. The Commission on Culture and Media is the importer on 15 September 2017. 5. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer is the Internal Security and Public Order Committee on 14 September 2017. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. 7. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 August 2017. 8. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds. Importers: Ivelina Vassileva and Diana Yordanova on 8 September 2017 Point 1 for Thursday, 21 September 2017 9. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 21 September 2017 10. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. Point 3 for Thursday, 21 September 2017 11. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political and Civil Rehabilitation of Repressed Persons. Importers: Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs on 7 July 2017 Point 4 for Thursday, 21 September 2017 12. Draft Law on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of Romania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Albania, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of National Defence of Canada, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Minister of National Defence of the Republic of Poland, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, the Department of Defence of the United States of America, the Office of the Supreme Chief Command of the United States of NATO Armed Forces in Europe (SHAPE) on the establishment, activity, composition, financing, administrative management and maintenance of the Staff of the Multinational Division of South East( HQMND-SE). Importer: Council of Ministers on 17 August 2017 13. Report on the state of defence and the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Importer: Council of Ministers on 31 August 2017. 14. Report of the Interdepartmental Commission on Export Control and Non-Proliferation of Weapons of Mass Destruction to the Minister of Economy for 2016. Importer: Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. We vote on the program. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov wants the floor for procedure.]] After the vote. They voted 207 MPs: 155 against 1, abstention 51. Our work program has been accepted. There is a proposal under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly as a item on the agenda of the National Assembly for the period 20 September 2017 to be included in the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement of the Penal Code, No 754-01-18 of 7 June 2017. The importer is the People's Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u2	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we present to your attention the Project for Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code. We are making this proposal because the subject is extremely up-to-date and is extremely relevant to events that have occurred in recent months, namely kidnapping and the danger of other such cases. The first step was taken by adopting changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The changes we are now proposing in the Penal Code, and they had to go hand in hand with those in the Code of Criminal Procedure, it is precisely the early release of persons convicted of serious crimes and, in particular, those convicted of kidnapping. The reasons for writing this bill were the request for early release of the persons who were convicted of the case. Since the amendments to the Penal Code of February 2017 in the framework of the Institute of Early Release did not give the necessary effect sought by importers, we propose the change that was made and created a serious negative attitude towards the changes made to the Code, as well as to victims of similar types of crime and among civil society. We therefore believe that the supplement proposed by the Bill to restore the tired requirement of necessity. This is extremely important, since the changes made then enabled those convicted of serious crimes to have the opportunity to get out of prison earlier. It's like a condition if...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u3	Stop fooling people.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u4	On the contrary, Mr. Kirilov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u5	Please don't call from the gym! Do not engage in dialogue with Members of the Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u6	For this bill, we have a positive opinion from the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, which says that such a change would be useful and would reflect precisely preventively on individuals who could commit such crimes. Now is the time and time for such a bill to be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. The only reason the bill is not included is that there is no report by the leading Commission and not only on this bill, there are several other penal code bills, which would be good to rule on the leading Commission. And the now included Penal Code Bill concerns European legislation allowing its separate movement to be dealt with. Please vote. We are voting for a proposal for inclusion in our weekly program, made by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. They voted 210 MPs: for 92, against 72, abstention 46. The offer is not accepted. Messages: Projects and Projects under way for the period 13 September 2017: On 13 September 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game was adopted. Importers are Volen Siderov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Foods (the Committee on Agriculture and Food) as well as to the Committee on Environment and Water; On 13 September 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Special Intelligence Means Act was adopted. Importers are the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. It is assigned to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. On 14 September 2017 a draft decision for a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad was adopted. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. On 14 September 2017, a draft decision to complete the composition of the Committee on Environment and Water was received. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. On 14 September 2017, a third draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports was adopted. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. On 18 September 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Council Regulation No 1236/2005 on trade in certain goods which could be used for the application of the death penalty, torture or other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is distributed to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 18 September 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 19 September 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports was adopted. Importers are the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. On 19 September 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2015 to 25 September 2020 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 September 2020 to 25 September 2020 (OJ L 55, 12.1.2001, p. 1). 3 of the National Assembly's decision of 9 June 2017, adopted in connection with the debates on questions by the MPs Kornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov, with......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... No 754-05-13 of 17 May 2017, received information from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov about the future vision of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multifamily Housing and its financial security. The information is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: SELECTING MEMBERS FOR THE JUDGE AND THE PROCURERS' COLEGY OF THE HIGH JUDGE COUNCIL OF THE QUOTA OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. At the beginning I will introduce you, honourable Members, to the rules of procedure: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly the candidates admitted may attend the meeting; 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall present a Report on the hearing held; 3. Applicants shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal according to their order as defined in the list of candidates for the judge's and prosecutor's college prepared in alphabetical order for their own names in an exhibition within two minutes; 4. Discussions shall be held on the submitted applications under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly; 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the list of candidates for the judge's and prosecutor's college; 6. The candidate who has received the most votes but not less than two thirds of the votes of the Members of the National Assembly shall be elected; 7. In the event that more than six candidates from the College of Judges, respectively five candidates from the Prosecution College shall receive the required number of votes, as required by art. 130, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and of art. 19b of the Law on the Judiciary, among the candidates who received the required but least equal number of votes, is held a runoff and is considered elected the one who received the most votes but not less than two thirds of the total number of MPs. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. The report will introduce you to the President of the Commission. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As you pointed out earlier, the procedure provides for the possibility for candidates who wish to be present in the Chamber to have this opportunity. For this reason, I request a procedure for admission to the hall for: Angelinka Nikolova, Boyan Magdalenchev, Boyan Novanski, Veronika Imova, Daniela Marcheva, Diana Hitova, Dragomir Koajikov, Marina Doichinova, Miroslav Dzherov, Nelly Viodorova, Stefan Grozdev, Vladislav Tomov, Gergana Mutafova, Yordan Stoev, Kalina Chapkenova, Marinela Toteva, Plamena Apostolova, Svetlana Boshnakova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u9	Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. 200 MPs voted: for 199, against 1, no abstentions. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on hearing the admissions of candidates for members for the judges' and prosecutor's college of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly quota At its meeting held on 7 September 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs held a hearing of the candidates admitted for members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly in accordance with Section IV of the National Assembly's decision adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and procedure for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of members for the Judge and Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota adopted on 31 May 2017, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. in DV, No. 44 of 2 June 2017 The meeting was attended by: Mr. Ivan Georgiev from the Institute for Market Economics and by the Institute of Open Society and Mrs. Ivanka Ivanova from Mrs. Ivanka Ivanova from the Institute for Market Economics. Within the time limit laid down in the Rules of Procedure, eighteen proposals for candidates for members of the Supreme Judicial Council (SJC) of the National Assembly quota have been received. All required documents under Section I, item, are submitted to the proposals. 2 of the procedural rules. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on 12 July 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs carried out a verification of the eligibility of the proposed candidates on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the Judiciary and Section III, i.e. 1 of the Rules of Procedure, deciding to allow all eighteen candidates, of which 11 for the College of Judges and 7 for the College of Prosecutors to be admitted to a hearing. On the basis of Section IV, the order of the hearing was conducted alphabetically according to the applicant's own names. The candidate for a member of the SJC Mrs. Angelinka Nikolova was represented by the National Representative Simeon Naydenov, who pointed out that Mrs. Nikolova has 26 years internship in the judicial system and has passed through all levels by a junior judge, judge, district judge and judge in the District Court of Targovishte. She's been looking at civil, criminal, administrative and commercial matters. In 2017, Ms. Nikolova left the judiciary and is currently a lawyer at the Bar Association of Targovishte and is also included in the list of Syndicates of the Ministry of Justice. In support of the candidate were received opinions from the District Court of Targovishte and the Lawyers' Council of the Bar Association of Targovishte. In her presentation Ms. Nikolova emphasized the need to introduce effective rules in courts, combat corruption practices and raise the authority of the judiciary. According to her, increasing the authority of the judiciary goes through a transparent, principled and competent choice of executives, a change in the system for raising and moving judges through an objective assessment of their work. Ms. Nikolova proposed changes in disciplinary proceedings aimed at their swift conduct and disclosure of decisions to the public. People's representative Danail Kirilov presented Mr. Boyan Magdalenchev's candidacy by pointing out that Judge Magdalinchev is a lawyer with high professional and moral qualities, proven in his 35 years of judicial practice and his 38-year general legal internship, which consistently passes through all levels of the judiciary. Mr. Magdalinchev is a lecturer at numerous seminars in national and international terms, he also participates in numerous working groups on various draft laws and actively contributes to the development of concepts for strategic management of the judiciary, in particular the administrative courts. In support of Mr. Magdalenchev, opinions were received from the European Association of Administrative Judges, the Chief Inspector of the Judicial Inspectorate of Romania, the University of Ruse (Angel Kanchev) and Varna Free University (Chernorizets Hrabar). In his exhibition Mr. Magdalenchev emphasized on the possibility of the SJC by drafting opinions on draft laws to improve the organization of the courts and proposed the establishment of an analytical unit for legal analysis in the Council, which will focus on the problems of the judiciary. According to him, the SJC should use its powers and change the boundaries of judicial areas and add that they do not necessarily coincide with the administrative division of the country. Mr. Magdalenchev expressed the need to introduce a clear and objective mechanism for evaluation of magistrates-candidates for administrative leaders to check their legal and organisational competences and their qualities with a view to the representative character of the position. In response to Mr. Philip Popov's question about what measures should be taken in relation to the uneven workload of the magistrates, Mr. Magdalinchev pointed out that the plenary of the SJC can take action to optimize the judicial areas by changing the judicial area in certain administrative and territorial units. Mr. Boyan Novanski's candidacy was presented by the National Representative Christian Mitev, who pointed out that Mr. Novanski is a Master of Law from Sofia University with 20 years of practice as a lawyer. Practices in criminal, commercial and corporate law. He has participated in a number of seminars, conferences and symposiums in the country and abroad on the problems of the judiciary. In support of the application, an opinion was received from lawyers from various industries of the judiciary. During the hearing Mr. Novanski declared himself a regular holding of competitions and a suspension of the posting of magistrates. According to him, the current composition of the SJC conducts an unmotivated personnel policy and this should change. He pointed out that the personnel and household security of the courts should be improved by increasing the number of judges and the judicial administration in the busy courts at the expense of those less burdened. Mr. Novanski focused on the need to refine the evaluation mechanism in the career development of magistrates with the application of fair indicators, as well as transparent rules in the selection of executives. On behalf of the importers, Mrs. Veronica Imova's candidacy was presented by the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov, who noted that Mrs. Imova has over 36 years of legal experience in the judiciary and is a longtime lecturer on current criminal issues, taking part in a number of international trainings and seminars on criminal law, as well as in the composition of expert working groups of the Council on Law in the Ministry of Justice for Drafting Laws. He pointed out that Mrs. Imova was the rapporteur of the plenary of the Supreme Court of Cassation (VCC), as well as four interpretation cases of the General Assembly of the Penal College of the VCC, participated in the preparation of opinions on constitutional matters and was the author of a number of articles and publications on criminal matters. In presenting her concept Mrs. Imova noted as her main ideas strengthening the independence of the judiciary, providing society with quality and effective justice, as well as solving the problem of uneven workload of magistrates, courts and prosecutors in the country. It announced greater activity by the SJC by drawing up opinions on draft laws relating to the activities of the judiciary. To Mr. Emil Dimitrov's question about the challenges in the work of the Commission on the attestations and contests at the Supreme Court of Justice in resolving the status of magistrates, Mrs. Imova noted that the Commission has prepared and proposed solutions on all issues governing the status of magistrates and pointed out as a challenge the creation of principle rules and criteria in assessing the work of each magistrate. Ms. Daniela Marinova-Marcheva's candidacy was presented by MP Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that she has more than 21 years of legal internship and has consistently held the position of judge at Sofia District Court, Sofia City Court and Sofia Court of Appeal. She has participated in a number of seminars and trainings related to civil and commercial law. In the presentation of her concept Mrs. Marinova-Marcheva focused on the individual and institutional independence of the magistrates. According to her, when solving problems, the Supreme Judicial Council should exercise its powers under conditions of transparency, publicity and accountability, avoiding appearance and formality. It advocated the idea of periodic meetings with judges in appeals areas to discuss problems arising in connection with the administration of justice within certain matters. Ms. Marcheva added that the realization of disciplinary responsibility should be carried out by thorough analysis of all relevant facts and compliance with the effect of the same on the particular magistrate and the whole community. People's representative Anna Alexandrova raised a question about the specific measures to be taken for the individual independence of the judges. In response, Ms. Marcheva pointed out that in order to ensure their independence, the procedures for initial appointment and the procedures for promotion in office should be based on objective criteria. According to the candidate, influence on the independence of magistrates have the workload, qualifications and compliance with the principle of random distribution of cases. On behalf of the importers, Mrs. Diana Hitova's candidacy was presented by the National Representative Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that Judge Hitova is a Master of Law from the Sofia University and added that her professional experience has passed as a lawyer and chair of the Lawyers' College Sliven, a member of the National Assembly in 40th of the National Assembly, a member of the Commission for Protection of Competition and is currently a judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In conclusion, he highlighted Mrs. Hitova's participation in the development of civil law and public procurement bills. In support of Diana Hitova, an opinion was received by the Lawyers Council of the Lawyers' College. In her presentation Mrs. Hitova emphasized on improving the content of the Code of Ethics of the Magistrates, the need to improve the system of accidental distribution of cases with additional criteria aimed at greater specialization in legal matter and taking into account the factual and legal complexity. According to her, the Supreme Judicial Council should actively encourage judges by implementing a system of material and moral incentives and increasing trainings in the field of EU law. She proposed the creation of uniform rules for administrative service of citizens, the conduct of local competitions for the appointment of magistrates and the establishment of common criteria in disciplinary practice. Mrs. Hitova presented her ideas for creating a single system, similar to the Trade Register, for central distribution of all applications submitted in order and in lieu of legal proceedings and the compilation of a catalogue of all inquiries made by Bulgaria for a preliminary ruling and their results. People's representative Krum Zarkov presented Mr. Dragomir Koydjikov's candidacy, noting that his professional development began as an investigator in the Regional Investigation Service In his exhibition Mr. Koyadjikov noted as an important moment in the development of the newly elected Supreme Judicial Council defending the independence of the judiciary and proposed the creation of a section on the e-page of the Supreme Judicial Council, where every magistrate can raise questions. He noted that the Supreme Judicial Council should summarize and uniform its disciplinary practice and that changes in legislation regarding the workload of magistrates are needed. In addition, the applicant stressed the need to continue the work on the preparation of the judicial card and increase the magistrate's remuneration at regional level. On behalf of the importers, Ms. Marina Doichinova's candidacy was presented by MP Krum Zarkov, who noted that Judge Doichinova began her professional career as a legal consultant and subsequently worked as a judge at all levels of the judiciary. She was a judge at Botevgrad District Court, Sofia District Court, Sofia District Court and Supreme Administrative Court, and has over 36 years of legal experience. He added that Ms. Doychinova has defended her doctorate in law at Varna Free University, worked as a lecturer at the National Institute of Justice and participated in working groups at the Ministry of Justice in drafting bills. In support of Ms. Marina Doychinova, opinions from the National Association for Public Protection and Varna Free University were received. In her presentation Ms. Doichinova emphasized on the need for the Supreme Judicial Council to focus its efforts to ensure and defend the independence of the judiciary, prosecution and investigation bodies, their financial and technical provision. According to her, a guarantee of the independence of the judiciary is the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council on the attestations, the promotion of office and the relocation of magistrates. Ms. Doichinova considers as the main task of the Supreme Judicial Council to determine the standard of workload of magistrates, of the Presidents of the courts and of the judicial officers. On Mr. Krum Zarkov's question Mrs. Doichinova pointed out that she does not believe that raising her candidacy from the parliamentary quota will affect her work at the Supreme Judicial Council and expressed her opinion that this concerns all candidates for members of the parliamentary quota as long as they work conscientiously and follow their beliefs. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Miroslav Dzherov's candidacy was presented by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that Mr. Dzherov is a Master of Law from Sofia University (St. Kliment Ohridski), with more than 17 years of legal experience to the Sofia Bar Association, and his field of activity is related to civil law. Mr. Dzherov is a socially committed person, a prominent defender of the fundamental democratic principles such as the rule of law, division and mutual control between the authorities, as well as equality before the law for all Bulgarian citizens and organizations. The Union of Young Lawyers delivered an opinion in support of Mr. Miroslav Dzherov. During the presentation of his concept, Mr. Jerov also touched on the issue of independence, according to him the main task of the Supreme Judicial Council is to guarantee the independence of judges and the judiciary and in this regard he proposed that the Council create additional structures which autonomously carry out this function. It declared itself to provide an immediate response to the violation of the independence of judges, which would increase the authority of the Council in the judiciary. According to the applicant, guarantees for the occasional distribution of cases can only be the impeccable morality of the head of the particular court. Mr. Dzherov proposed to establish a body for the posting of magistrates and to increase the number of competitions by setting out the idea of a whole new way to test the magistrates based on an assessment of their work in involving civic participation in the evaluation. Ms. Nelly Viodorova was presented by the importer Angel Isaev, who noted that Mrs. Viodorova is a lawyer with more than 26 years of experience in civil, criminal and administrative matters in the courts of the Republic of Bulgaria and in cases of complaints before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. In support of the application were received opinions from the Sofia Lawyers Council, the Women's Lawyers Association, the National Legal Aid Bureau, the Non-Project Human Rights Association and lawyers supporting its application. Mrs. Viodorova pointed out as a primary task in the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council the affirmation of the independence of the judiciary and the creation of mechanisms for the protection of magistrates from uncontrolled public, political, media and hierarchical pressure. She drew attention to the need to carry out and validate lasting and consistent disciplinary practice and the introduction of e-Justice. People's representative Hamid Hamid presented the candidate Mr. Stefan Grozdev by pointing out that Mr. Grozdev is a magistrate with over 28 years of legal internship, worked as a judge at the Sofia District Court, the Sofia Court of Appeal, and is currently Vice-President of the Appeals Court of Sofia, and Head of the Chamber of Commerce. Mr. Grozdev has additional qualifications and specializations in the field of international law. In support of Mr. Stefan Grozdev was delivered an opinion from the Private Higher School of Tourism. In addition to his presentation Mr. Grozdev pointed out the need for institutional independence of the judiciary, the need to conduct objective, transparent and predictable competition and attestation procedures, as well as to ensure broad publicity of the candidates for administrative leaders. According to him, the change of the judicial map should be done both in order to address the problems of uneven workload of different units of the system and in order to ensure normal access to justice for citizens and organisations. He highlighted the link between the judicial card and the workload of magistrates, the introduction of e-Justice and the establishment of a single law-enforcement programme for all courts. National Representative Simeon Naydenov presented Mr. Vladislav Tomov, noting that he is a Master of Law from the Southwestern University of Neofit Rilski, has 20 years of legal internship and has consistently worked as a legal consultant, a junior prosecutor at the District Prosecutor's Office. Sandanski, lawyer and prosecutor at the District Prosecutor's Office. Varna, and participated in numerous seminars organized by the National Institute of Justice. In his presentation Mr. Vladislav Tomov focused on the need to change the criteria for conducting the initial appointment exams in the judiciary and the creation of objective procedures for the promotion of magistrates. According to the candidate, it is necessary to increase their remuneration to ensure the independence of magistrates. He proposed shortening the time limits for disciplinary proceedings and continuous monitoring of the workload of the individual units in the judiciary. Mr. Tomov also noted the need to continue working on the preparation of a judicial card. On behalf of the importers, Ms. Gergana Mutafova's candidacy was presented by the National Representative Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that Ms. Mutafova consistently passes through all levels of the judiciary. She was a prosecutor at the District Prosecutor's Office. Plovdiv, acting as administrative head of the District Prosecution Office. Asenovgrad, and the District Prosecutor's Office. Plovdiv. He added that Gergana Mutafova is Vice-President of the Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria, is a member of the National Prosecutor's Network for International Cooperation and has numerous specializations in Bulgaria and abroad. In support of Mrs. Gergana Mutafova, opinions have been received from Plovdiv University of Plovdiv, the Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria, the Institute of European Law, the Bulgarian School of Politics "Dimitry Panitza" and the Higher School of Security and Economics Plovdiv. In her presentation Mrs. Mutafova pointed out that the biggest problem is the uneven burden of judges and prosecutors, which in turn also affects the quality of their work. It advocated the idea of introducing new standards for the exchange of information between the different subsystems of the judiciary and put as a priority the rapid introduction of e-Justice. Ms. Mutafova proposed the creation of a common software to provide the possibility of tracing criminal proceedings from its formation to final verdict or decree. According to the applicant, courts should be able to retain a percentage of the revenue from judicial fees in order to have the means to maintain judicial buildings. National Representative Emil Dimitrov presented Mr. Yordan Stoev's candidacy by pointing out that the candidate is a Master of Law, graduated from the Supreme Institute for Training Officers and Research in Sofia Ministry of Interior, and has 21 years of legal experience. Mr. Stoev has worked consecutively as an investigator, lawyer, Deputy Director of the Sofia Investigation Service, Prosecutor and is currently Deputy Appeals Prosecutor at the Appeals Prosecutor's Office. Sofia. In support of Mr. Yordan Stoev was delivered an opinion by the Private Higher School of Tourism Blagoevgrad. In addition to his concept, Mr. Stoev pointed out that the introduction of a uniform and complex standard for evaluation of magistrates is necessary, a revision of the concept of the competitions for relocation to an equal degree body of the judiciary and the chamber policy of the Supreme Judicial Council. According to him, a uniform norm should be established for the workload of magistrates and the work on the preparation of the judicial card should be continued. He stressed the need for uniform and objective criteria in disciplinary proceedings by proposing mechanisms for encouraging individual magistrates. Mr. Stoev highlighted as a priority the active interaction between the SJC and the Ministry of Justice in drafting laws in the area of the judiciary. On behalf of the importers, the People's Representative Danail Kirilov presented Mrs. Kalina Chapkenova-Kyuchukova's candidacy, noting that she has passed through all levels of the prosecution, has more than 20 years of legal experience in the judicial authorities, currently being the district prosecutor of the town. Burgas for a second term. He added that she was a Honorary Assistant at Burgas Free University and participated in a number of international trainings related to terrorism. In her work Mrs. Chapkenova was a monitoring prosecutor on a number of relevant cases for the case, among them the case concerning the terrorist act of Sarafovo airport in the city. Burgas. Mrs. Chapkenova's candidacy was supported by Burgas Free University, prof. Boris Velchev and the non-profit association of Demetra Association. During the presentation of her concept Mrs. Chapkenova noted that among the main issues for the new composition of the SJC are independence of the system and ensuring equal access to justice. She said support for the version adopted by the Prosecutor's College of the Council to reform the judicial map, namely the consolidation of district prosecutors and the contraction of their number to 28, because she said this option would enable easier shifting of people at the discretion of prosecutors and would equalise the burden in the system. The main task of the new Judicial Council, according to her, should be to gain the lost confidence in the judiciary. Mrs. Chapkenova also declared herself a unified approach and transparency in advocacy, promotion of office and appointment of administrative leaders. She pointed out that the assessment of magistrates' activities should be objective and impartial and that the current assessment practice should be changed. Mr. Zarkov raised a question about the need to refine the disciplinary practice of the SJC. In response Mrs. Chapkenova pointed out that the practice of the current Supreme Judicial Council is diverse and objective and detailed rules should be developed for the conduct of disciplinary proceedings after a thorough analysis of the current practice. Ms. Marinela Toteva's application was presented by MP Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that she has more than 17 years of legal experience, successively passed by a junior prosecutor at the Sofia District Attorney's Office, through a prosecutor at the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office, the Sofia District Attorney's Office and the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office. He added that Mrs Toteva has participated in working groups to draw up opinions on interpretation cases of the Supreme Administrative Court, as well as as as head of working groups to analyse the disciplinary practice of the Supreme Judicial Council. From Varna Free University, Chernorizets Hrabar, expressed their support for Ms. Marinela Toteva's candidacy. In her exhibition Mrs. Toteva proposed to introduce a rotational observation of the appeals and district courts by specific members of the Council, as well as to clarify the rules for the attestation of magistrates, for the acquisition of the status of irrevocability and uniformity of the disciplinary practice of the SJC. According to her, the establishment of an electronic legal system for the exchange of documents of the investigating authorities and the prosecution will contribute to speed and efficiency in the criminal process. Mrs. Toteva described the burden of magistrates as a key factor for the upcoming reform of the judicial map and supported the model adopted by the prosecutors' college for reform, according to which out of 113 district prosecutors should remain only 28. Ms. Plamena Apostolova's candidacy was presented by the MP Yordan Tsonev, who pointed out that Ms. Tsvetanova is a magistrate with over 23 years of legal experience as an investigator. Since 2014 he has led a specialized department in the National Investigation Service. Mrs. Apostolova participates in numerous competitions and trainings in the field of criminal law. In support of Plamena Apostolova were received opinions from the Chamber of Investigators in Bulgaria and the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office. In her presentation Mrs. Apostolova presented her arguments for validating the independence of the judiciary, optimizing the structure and reorganization of the judicial card. She pointed out the need to establish uniform criteria and indicators for the assessment of initial appointments, as well as clear and transparent career development procedures. Ms. Apostolova also noted that the SJC should focus its efforts on analysis and summary of disciplinary proceedings. According to the applicant, financial security should be ensured to introduce e-Justice and re-create the judicial card. Ms. Svetlana Boshnakova was represented by MP Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that Prosecutor Boshnakova has over 28 years of legal experience. She began her professional development as a junior judge and consistently took up the positions of judge, prosecutor and inspector at the Inspectorate at the Supreme Judicial Council, and at present Mrs. Boshnakova is Prosecutor at the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. In support of Ms. Svetlana Boshnakova, opinions were presented by the Inspector General of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council and the managements of the District Prosecutor's Office and the District Court of Kyustendil. In her presentation Mrs. Boshnakova stated that priority in the work of the SJC should be the independence of the judiciary budget and the provision of sufficient financial resources. It pointed out the need for changes in judicial areas and the disclosure of territorial divisions of prosecutions, which would greatly ease the uneven workload of magistrates. As an important condition for the effectiveness of the judicial system, she pointed to compliance with the competition beginning when appointing magistrates and officers in the judiciary, their vocational training and improving their qualifications. Ms. Boshnakova emphasized on the interaction of the Supreme Judicial Council with the executive and legislative authorities and the introduction of e-Justice. The candidates were asked by: Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives, the Union of Judges in Bulgaria, the Institute for Market Economics, the Union of Auditors' Auditors, the Association of the Public Justice Council and the Association of Administration in the Judicial Authorities. Following the hearing and on the basis of the concepts presented, the Members of the National Assembly agreed that the candidates meet the legal requirements for members of the Supreme Judicial Council. With regard to them, no data are presented to question their moral and professional qualities and that all applicants have the necessary qualifications and experience, specific training and personal motivation, enjoy an impeccable professional reputation and public support. The Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes in favour of the College of Judges and abstentions proposed to the National Assembly that the 18 candidates for members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly's quota, of which 11 for the College of Judges, and 7 for the College of Prosecutors, be proposed for discussion and consecutive voting, to which a list of candidates is applied, Appendix 1 and drafts on the decisions for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council for the College of Judges and Prosecutors, according to Annexes 2 and 3 of the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The following is a presentation by an importer of the proposal of the candidates. Please, colleagues, let me just remind you that you have 2 minutes to present the candidates you have proposed. We begin with Angelinka Nikolova Nikolova a proposal of the political party parliamentary group Volja. Mr. Mareshki, are you going to offer it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, distinguished guests, candidates! Mrs. Angelinka Nikolova Nikolova, 52, is proposed as a member of the judge's college. Targovishte, attorney at the Targovishte Bar Association, with 25 years of legal internship in the judiciary. She went through all levels of the system by a junior judge, through a bailiff, a judge at the District Court in the city. Targovishte, was chairman of the Targovishte District Court and since 2006 was ranked judge in the VCC or in the SAC and with the status of non-discriminatory. He's currently on the list of Department of Justice Syndicates. Of all the candidates we will be looking at now, Mrs. Nikolova is the only candidate who has left the judiciary voluntarily as a sign of disagreement with all these processes that all Bulgarian businessmen comment on them, processes that eat up the system from within. There is no greater proof of her moral qualities than the fact that she left the system, where she is generally prestigious and secure, with guaranteed incomes to prove her professionalism in a new field. The evaluations of her work as a judge are very good. A review of her cases has been carried out by the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, which has also completed with a very good assessment. She was a member of an exam committee for young judges, leaving the justice system in February of this year. Ms. Nikolova meets perfectly the requirements of the Law on Member of the SJC, knows perfectly the judiciary and has faced problems at all levels personally. Its experience in the specifics of the work on the formation, movement and resolution of all types of cases, administrative and technical movement, the occasional distribution, the workload of individual judges and courts, the problems of delaying cases, the slow administration and administrative service of citizens give us confidence that it can be a worthy member of the Supreme Judicial Council and with its work to contribute to improving the work of the judiciary. Mrs. Nikolova's moral qualities are undeniable. Among her colleagues and society, she is known for not letting anyone influence her work, nor has she succumbed to pressure and threats concerning direct or indirect interference in her decisions. With her behavior in society, Mrs. Nikolova affirms the notion of independence of the judiciary...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u13	One minute, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u14	... Neither in his professional life nor in his personal life has the applicant allowed preference, prejudice, prejudice based on race, gender, ethnicity, religion, education, status or property. She's tolerant of other people's opinions, and she's capable of appreciating it by dignity. Among her colleagues and in society she is known as an honest, upright and polite person, not afraid to express her position and opinion. With this, we believe that with her experience and knowledge, Ms. Nikolova will be able to contribute to the quality work of the Supreme Judicial Council and, above all, to the upliftment of its authority, as well as the main objectives and tasks that society expects from the Council. Thank you. I wish Mrs. Nikolova good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Next is a proposal for Boyan Georgiev Magdalinchev, made by the parliamentary group of GERB. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u16	Thank you. Mr. President, as we have already had the opportunity to point out, we offer you the candidacy for a member of the Judicial College of the Supreme Judicial Council of Mr. Boyan Georgiev Magdalinchev, currently acting as Deputy of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and Head of the Second College of the Supreme Administrative Court. Mr. Magdalenchev has been a judge since 1982, consistently passing through all levels of the judiciary. Since 1997 he has served as judge of the Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Between 1999 and 2003, Mr. Magdalinchev was a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, Chairman of the Budget Committee and Commissioner of the Court of Justice. We believe that Mr. Boyan Magdalenchev is a lawyer with high professional and moral qualities, proven in 35 years of judicial work, as well as by his work as an administrative supervisor. His high professional and moral qualities were expressed in his work at all levels and bodies of the judiciary. In his work with colleagues, he shows tact, patience, respect, and tolerance. Judge Magdalinchev is Chairman of the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges, which actively contributes to the implementation of the activity and protection of the professional and public position of its members and the prestige of the judging profession, to increase the transparency of the work and status of the administrative judge in society. In the context of transparency and implementation of the principle of self-government, an objective assessment of his work gives the judges of the General Assembly of the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges, where Mr. Magdalinchev was elected for a second term as its Chairman. Many more we can point to the professional qualities of Judge Magdalenchev, but I stop here, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Next is a proposal from the MP Volen Siderov for Boyan Chavdarov Novanski. He's from the United Patriots Group. Anybody want to introduce the candidacy? [[Noise and lines.]] Next is a proposal from GERB's parliamentary group for Veronica Atanasova Imova. Mr. Kirilov, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Veronika Atanasova Imova has graduated from the Sofia University of Law at St. Kliment Ohridski. She has had a joint legal internship for more than 36 years in the judicial authorities. She's been a longtime lecturer on current criminal matters. Ms. Imova has been a judge since 1982, consistently passing through all levels of the judiciary. She was a judge at the Sofia District Court, a judge at the Sofia City Court, a penal college. In 1993 she was elected Vice-President of the Sofia District Court and Chairman of the Criminal College. Since 1997 he has served as judge at the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria. She was elected by the Plenum of the Supreme Court of Cassation in 2016 as Chairman of the Commission for the Attestation and Competitions at the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council. Ms. Veronica Imova has actively participated in the composition of expert working groups of the Council on Law at the Ministry of Justice for Drafting Laws. Judge Imova was the rapporteur of the Plenum of the Supreme Court of Cassation with the preparation of opinions on constitutional case No 10 of 2010 and on constitutional case No 11 of 2010. She is the rapporteur of four interpretation cases of the General Assembly of the Criminal College of the Supreme Court of Cassation, which are essential and contribute to law enforcement on the ongoing crime under the application of art. 78a, para. 7 of the Criminal Code of Human Trafficking, the applicability of the civil suit in the criminal process. Ms. Imova has participated in a number of international trainings and forums. I'm done here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Veselinov is ready to present the candidacy of Boyan Chavdarov Novanski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you Boyan Chavdarov Novanski's candidacy as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Judicial College. Boyan Chavdarov Novanski is a 19-year-old lawyer. He has the capacity and is prepared to propose solutions related to the problems of the judiciary. He is respected for the professional level of his work, but also for his well-grounded positions on professional matters and problems of the judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u21	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The next proposal for a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, the College of Judges is for Mrs. Daniela Angelova Marinova-Marcheva, proposed by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We present to you Mrs. Daniela Angelova Marinova-Marcheva's candidacy as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, the College of Judges. Ms. Marinova-Marcheva has over 21 years of joint legal experience, and in the past 16 years she has consistently held the position of judge at Sofia District Court, Sofia City Court and Sofia Court of Appeal. He completed his legal education in 1995 at Sofia University, starting his career as an expert on legal issues at the Privatization Agency. From 2003 to 2005, Mrs. Marcheva served as Senior Expert-Jurisconsult in the Administration of the Supreme Judicial Council. In 2005, Daniela Marcheva dedicated herself to the judging profession and was appointed judge at the Second Civil College of the Sofia District Court. Five years later, she was appointed to the Chamber of Commerce and is currently seconded to the Chamber of Commerce of the Sofia Court of Appeal with the highest rank. As Judge Daniela Marcheva has always demonstrated undisputed professionalism, expressing itself not only in a high level of legal knowledge and experience, but also in a broad common culture, but also in good faith and integrity, with which she is known among her colleagues. He knows very well the work of judges in the busiest courts in Bulgaria. It has the necessary personality and professional qualities and we therefore support and offer you its application.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u23	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We are going back to the candidacy of which you are also the importer of Diana Atanasova Hitova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Diana Hitova is also a candidate raised by the BSP group. Judge Hitova enjoys an impeccable reputation among her colleagues. It was built during her long and ascending career in legal circles. Mrs. Hitova was a lawyer, chair of the Bar Association in Sliven and, as such, gained not only practical but also administrative experience. Mrs. Hitova has also worked as a trade union where she has impartially exercised her activities, respecting the laws and showing a balanced attitude towards the interests of both owners and creditors. Mrs. Hitova was elected MP at the 40th National Assembly, where she left excellent impressions among her colleagues. She has worked very actively in the Committee on Legal Affairs and in the Committee on Economic Policy and has participated in the development of a number of civil and procedural law bills as well as in the field of public procurement. At the moment Mrs. Hitova is judge of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Her biography shows a logical and justified growth to the highest positions in the legal profession, and during her long career she has had the opportunity to get acquainted with both the organization and the problems of the judiciary and will undoubtedly contribute to their resolution.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. You are among the importers and the next proposal for Mr. Dragomir Asenov Koyadjikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u26	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Koyadjikov is also a candidate of the BSP for the College of Judges from the quota of the National Assembly. He graduated from his legal education and began working as an investigator in the District Investigation Service. In 2004, he was appointed judge at the District Court of Ruse, where he worked on criminal, administrative criminal and civil cases. The long-standing career of Judge Koyadjikov has always been a guarantee of his professionalism and knowledge of the problems of the judiciary in general and of the judging profession in particular. His experience as an investigator will also contribute to the precise assessment of matters put before the College of Judges and to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council. Mr. Koyadjikov works in the Specialized Court and his activities in the specialized jurisdiction is an additional attestation that the new Supreme Judicial Council will have a comprehensive view of the work of the judicial institutions. Please support this application as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. And the last candidacy you are proposing as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council is from the quota of the National Assembly of Ms. Marina Mihailova Doichinova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I also have the honor of introducing you to Mrs. Marina Doichinova's candidacy. She has a long and undoubtedly successful professional path. First, as a legal counsel, then as a judge at absolutely all levels of the judiciary. She worked at the District Court of Botevgrad, in Sofia District Court, Sofia District Court, and since 1997 she has been a judge of the Supreme Administrative Court. Since 1 February 2002, she has been President of the Supreme Administrative Court of Justice, where disputes concerning the termination of civil service relations with civil servants are examined. This gives her the advantage of being substantially involved in the formation of the case-law relating to the status of civil servants, which has many common characteristics with that of magistrates. In mid-2015 Marina Mihailova also defended a doctorate in law. Her doctoral work is on the implementation of the Law on Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests, which puts professional interests in direct relation to the socially significant issue.......................................................................... Judge Mihailova's qualities are most clearly highlighted in the judgments rendered with her participation. Because of her professional experience, she was attracted as a temporary lecturer at the National Institute of Justice and at the Program Council of the National Institute of Justice, where she participated in a number of working groups. The moral qualities, scientific activities and the judicial practice of Ms. Mihailova would certainly be extremely useful for the activities of the SJC, as well as for the formation of policies for a more independent and responsible judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Following is a proposal from the MP Georgi Markov, who proposes Miroslav Alexandrov Dzherov as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Judicial College. You have the floor, Mr. Markov. You have two minutes to present Mr. Jerov's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u30	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have allowed myself, as a Member of the National Assembly, in accordance with the rules that we have already voted on in the constitution of this National Assembly, to promote Miroslav Dzherov's candidacy as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Judicial College. I believe that the judiciary would have won if there was also a representative of the lawyer's guild in this senior judiciary body, who is in close contact with the judiciary, but still has one side view on it. As for the qualities of Mr. Miroslav Dzherov, it is not good to become a lawyer of the lawyer, but I will still say that he has been a lawyer in Sofia for 18 years. It is in the courts in Sofia that the biggest problems have become in recent years, there is a good view on them, by problems I mean the scandals and problems with the division of cases. Here are the headquarters of the Supreme Court of Cassation and the Supreme Administrative Court. I think 18 years of practice as a lawyer in Sofia is enough to participate in this senior body of the state. He has an impeccable reputation, an honest boy, he has never been involved in scandals and he has a very good quality of the quality of distance from the media. A major problem with the judiciary today is the mass talk of magistrates who should speak not on TV but on their decisions. I strongly support Miroslav Dzherov's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Next, a proposal for a candidate member of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly for the College of Judges by Angel Iliev Isaev He proposes Mrs. Nelly Lubomirova Viodorova. You have the floor, Mr. Isaev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you the candidacy of Nelly Viodorova a lawyer from the Sofia Bar Association. He was a graduate of the first class of the Classic High School and graduated from Law School at Sofia University, has legal experience only as a lawyer for more than 26 years, without interruption. Acting exclusively as a court lawyer, appearing in civil, criminal and administrative cases before all courts and courts in the State and in cases before the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg. It is known to magistrates with good professionalism, with the high morality of a struggling personality, has received an annual award for defending human rights. Its career development includes: two mandates as a member of the Management Board of the Sofia Bar Council from 2004 to 2008 and from 2008 to 2012, two mandates are a member of the Supreme Council of Law from 2013 to 2017. It is in the current term from 2017, where it works actively and as its representative, dozens of times has been tested in the state examination committees of the Ministry of Justice for the acquisition of legal powers. He has been a member of the National Bureau of Legal Aid since 2015 and to date. Works for legal aid in the country. The application is supported by the professional community of the Sofia Bar Association, whose member is from 15 February 1991, by lawyers from the country and the chairmen of the lawyers of Sofia, Montana and Vratsa. Everything presented so far gives confidence that Nelly Viodorova's candidacy is worthy and strong and should receive credit of trust. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Isaev. And the last candidate for a member of the Supreme Judicial Council is Mr. Stefan Grozdev Grozdev. The application was raised by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. You have the floor, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I offer to your attention the candidacy of Mr. Stefan Grozdev Grozdev. Mr. Grozdev covers all legal requirements for a member of the Supreme Judicial Council. Announces its consent to be nominated. Mr. Grozdev is a judge with more than 28 years of legal experience, and all this experience has passed at the Sofia District Court, the Sofia City Court and the Sofia Court of Appeal. Currently Mr. Grozdev is Vice-President of the Sofia Court of Appeal, has high moral qualities, a number of additional qualifications and specializations in the field of international law. Detailed CV is uploaded to the site at the nomination, I won't bother you with details. I think Judge Grozdev fits exactly the requirements of the Supreme Judicial Council, so please support his candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u35	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. This concludes the presentation of candidates for members of the College of Judges for the Supreme Judicial Council. We're moving on to the DA's office. A proposal from the political party's parliamentary group "Volja" who are proposing Vladislav Dimitrov Tomov's candidacy. You have the floor, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For the quota from the National Assembly for the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecution College, the Political Party "Volja" proposes Mr. Vladislav Dimitrov Tomov, 47 years old, prosecutor at the District Prosecution "Varna." His professional career began as a legal consultant at NEK. In the judiciary he started work in 1998 as a junior prosecutor in the District Prosecutor's Office of Sandanski and was later appointed as prosecutor in the District Prosecutor's Office of Varna, where he works at the moment. His joint legal internship is about 20 years. For the determination and objectivity of decision-making and verdicts in criminal cases related to drug trafficking in 2011, he was awarded a prize from the competition for magistrates and policemen in memory of Italian magistrate Giovanni Falcone. Prosecutor Tomov is a permanent member of the local Commission for Combating Trafficking in Human Beings in the Municipality of Varna, where he actively participates in the prevention of local trafficking in human beings and drugs. He is known among his colleagues as a zealous rider for compliance with the principle of accidental distribution of cases, the Code of Ethics of the Bulgarian magistrates and civil surveillance of the judiciary. He opposes the views expressed to remove the prosecution from the judiciary system. The candidate we offer you has in-depth legal training, extensive professional experience and impeccable reputation. There is a high personal motivation for conducting reforms initiated by the current SJC. We believe that Prosecutor Tomov has the moral and professional qualities required for a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council and with a clear conscience we offer his candidacy to your attention by wishing him success! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. The next proposal for a candidate for a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecutor's College is for Ms. Gergana Naydenova Mutafova. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you the candidacy of Ms. Gergana Naydenova Mutafova, who has graduated from higher legal education at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. She was a prosecutor in the District Prosecutor's Office. Plovdiv, starting work in the District Prosecution Office in 2006. Asenovgrad, as her administrative supervisor. During the administrative management of Gergana Mutafova in the District Prosecution Office. Asenovgrad, she became one of the first prosecutors to introduce for work the unified information system of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria in its business program. After a competition Mrs. Mutafova was elected as the administrative head of the District Prosecutor's Office. Plovdiv, and since 2015 it has been unanimously re-elected by the Supreme Judicial Council for a second term of office, which it is currently implementing. From 2013 until now Gergana Mutafova is Vice-President of the Association of Prosecutors in Bulgaria. In this capacity, she participates in the working groups of the Supreme Judicial Council on Occupation, on disciplinary responsibility and the one that has drawn up the Judicial Authority Communication Strategy. Prosecutor Gergana Mutafova has conducted a number of internships in European judicial institutions organized by the National Institute of Justice and the relevant legal training centres in Lisbon, Portugal; Bucharest, Romania; Ljubljana, Slovenia; Leche, Italy. The circle of her interests goes beyond her purely professional training and prosecution activities. In addition to her higher law education, she has the following Master's degree in Finance, the Legal and Judicial System of the European Union and the International Relations and Law of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The next proposal is from the MP Volen Siderov. It is for Yordan Andreev Stoev as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecutor's College. You have the floor, Mr. Veselinov, to present Mr. Stoev's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you Mr. Yordan Stoev's candidacy as a member of the SJC with the conviction that our candidate has the necessary professional training and the moral qualities needed to take up this position. Our candidate is a Master of Law, graduated from the Supreme Institute for Training Officers and Research at the Ministry of Interior, Sofia, and has 21 years of legal experience. It shall meet all requirements for a member of the SJC. Mr. Stoev has worked consecutively as an investigator, lawyer, deputy director of the Sofia Investigation Service, prosecutor and is currently Deputy Appeals Prosecutor at the Appeals Prosecutor's Office. We hope that our candidacy will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u41	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. The next proposal is for Mrs. Kalina Stefanova Chapkenova-Kyuchukova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecutor's College. It is from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u42	Mr. Chairman, Members of Parliament, I present to you the candidacy of Kalina Stefanova Chapkenova-Kuchukova, who is a Master of Law from Burgas Free University. He's had a joint legal internship for over 12 years in the judiciary. She worked as a Honorary Assistant at Burgas Free University, a major in General Law Theory. He joined the prosecution system in 1997 as a junior prosecutor at the District Prosecution Office Aytos. He's going through all the D.A.'s levels. She has worked as a prosecutor in the District Prosecution of Burgas, Deputy Regional Prosecutor of the District Prosecution of Burgas, Prosecutor of the District Prosecution of Burgas, Deputy of the Administrative Head of District Prosecutor of the District Prosecution of Burgas, Head of the District Prosecution of Burgas. In 2010, Ms. Chapkenova was promoted to the rank of prosecutor in the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office and the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office. He has participated in a number of international trainings related to the fight against terrorism and the management of large-scale cases conducted in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Republic of Cyprus and the Hellenic Republic. Ms. Chapkenova was a monitoring prosecutor on a number of relevant cases for the case-law, and the same were of high public interest. Among them is the only case in our country's new history regarding the terrorist act at Sarafovo Airport, Sofia. Burgas. During her long-standing practice as prosecutor in the District Prosecutor's Office of Burgas, since 2002, Mrs. Chapkenova has worked on some of the toughest cases in the prosecution, namely those concerning crimes committed by organized criminal groups dealing with drug trafficking. She was a monitoring prosecutor for a significant number of symbolic murders committed on the territory of the district of Bourgas. I'll stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The next proposal is from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They propose Mrs. Marinela Pankova Toteva as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, a prosecutor's college from the quota of the National Assembly. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. For more than 17 years Marinela Toteva worked in the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria and successively passed different stages of career development. After completing his legal education at UZU, Neofit Rilski, Sofia. Blagoevgrad and professional internship in Sofia City Court, in 2000 Prosecutor Toteva came to work as a junior prosecutor at the Sofia District Attorney's Office. Two years later she was appointed as a prosecutor at the Sofia District Attorney's Office and in 2005 she was transferred to the Sofia District Attorney's Office. He worked there until 2011, when he was appointed prosecutor of the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office. It is apparent from the above that Marinela Toteva has devoted her entire professional life to the prosecutor's profession. She knows the problems and challenges faced by prosecutors, and she would make a huge contribution to solving personnel and organizational issues from the competences of the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council. During her entire career Mrs. Toteva has maintained, developed and enriched her professional qualifications, participating in numerous seminars and trainings. She has gained a broad overview of the problems of the judiciary and the Magistrate community. It is used with good reputation and confidence of its colleagues, which is evident from its election as an elected member of the Committee on Appeals and Competitions from the quota of the current magistrates to the Prosecutors' College of the Supreme Judicial Council in 2016. Please support Marinela Pankova Toteva's candidacy as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, a prosecutor's college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The next proposal is from the MP Yordan Tsonev, who proposes Mrs. Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova to be elected as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecutor's College. You have the floor, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, under the rules adopted, I use my right to nominate Mrs. Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council. Ms. Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova has graduated from the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Prominently from the attached documents, Mrs. Apostolova covers all legal requirements for a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecutor's College. It has expressly declared its consent to be nominated as a member of that body. Mrs. Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova is a magistrate with more than 23 years of general legal experience from an investigator in the Regional Investigation Service of Sofia Investigation Service, through an investigator at the TSO of Sofia Investigation Service and up to her current status as Head of Special Branch of Stopanski in the National Investigation Service. Mrs. Apostolova has a number of specializations. I will mention only one of them in 2004 training in the United States, organized by the American International Development Agency, on the topic of: Fighting financial crimes. Ms. Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova has high professional and moral qualities and can be elected to the Supreme Judicial Council. I beg you to support her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u47	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. The latest proposal is from Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs who offer Mrs. Svetlana Georgieva Boshnakova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, a prosecutor's college, from the quota of the National Assembly. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Boshnakova graduated from the Faculty of Law at Sofia University (Climent Ohridski) in 1988. She began her career as a junior judge and consecutively took up the positions of the Court of Justice at the District Court of Kyustendil; the Court of Justice in the District Court of Kyustendil. He retrained himself as a prosecutor in 1995 and has been working as a prosecutor for over twenty years now. Svetlana Boshnakova has consistently and successfully grown in the career to a prosecutor in the Supreme Administrative Prosecutor's Office, where she works in the administrative department from 2002 to 2009. In 2009, she was appointed prosecutor at the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, Department of International Legal Cooperation. In 2012 by decision of the National Assembly she was elected Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and since March 2015 she is currently Prosecutor of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, Department of Specialized. Prosecutor Boshnakova has proven herself to be a recognized expert in the field of justice, with no reason to doubt her high moral qualities during her many years of professional experience. Through her work in the field of international cooperation, she enjoys the trust and recognition of her European colleagues. These are the reasons why we have proposed Mrs. Svetlana Georgieva Boshnakova and ask you to support this candidacy for a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, a prosecutor's college. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. That concludes the submission of applications by importers. As a summary, I will introduce you to Annex No 1 of the Committee on Legal Affairs Report a list of candidates for members of the judges' and prosecutors' college of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly quota. We begin with the judge's college in alphabetical order as they are according to the Report: Angelinka Nikolova Nikolova, Boyan Georgiev Magdalinchev, Boyan Chavdarov Novanski, Veronica Atanasova Imova, Daniela Angelova Marinova-Marcheva, Diana Atanasova Hitova, Dragomir Asenov Koyanov, Marina Mihailova Doychinova, Miroslav Alexandrov Dzherov, Nelly Lubomirova Viodorova and Stefan Grozdev Grozdev 11 candidates for six quotas. About the Prosecution College Vladislav Dimitrov Tomov, Gergana Naydenova Mutafova, Yordan Andreev Stoev, Kalina Stefanova Chapkenova-Kyuchokova, Marinela Pankova Toteva, Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova and Svetlana Georgieva Boshnakova 7 candidates for five quotas. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members! Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear candidates for members of the Supreme Judicial Council, with today's choice, if it is successful, we will conclude a procedure that started several months ago to elect a new Supreme Judicial Council. Today we must choose the so-called parliamentary quota. And before choosing it, since many questions have been asked, what is this quota, does it even have to be there? We need to clarify, in my opinion, a few things that are also raised in the process of work. These issues have been raised in the Legal Commission by NGOs, and generally in the public debate, which, you know, is active in matters of judicial reform and what is happening in judicial reform. I'm not gonna dwell on this, is there supposed to be a parliamentary quota? This is a constitutionally established issue and we do not need to debate further now. We must clearly say that representatives of parliament are not representatives of political parties. That a candidate has been promoted by the parliamentary group of GERB, BSP, DPS, Volja. Therefore, any square distribution by group and any proportionality is illogical. It cannot be an argument that a group has the most MPs. This does not give her the right in any form to have the most elected candidates in the Supreme Judicial Council. On the contrary, these candidates must be selected, who are most convincingly represented. Here all the parliamentary groups should be congratulated because the candidates in the procedure in which we are taking part have all presented themselves in our opinion, and I think that it is......................................................................................... How did the procedure go so far, because she will also be evaluated? And we owe it to ourselves. All requirements have been formally met, with the exception of certain time-limits. Some of them could not be respected because of the peculiarities of the political calendar "August Summer Month." In general, we can say that there were no problems in the procedure. Where, however, we believe that there was a problem, we want to say it because it is essential and is in the number of candidates. We've raised too few candidates. This is especially true for the other parliamentary groups, not for the BSP. Why is that a problem? This isn't just a pickle. That's a problem of at least three signs. First, this remains the feeling in people about the existence of agreements. When the numbers come out and when someone is sitting and analyzing impartially on the side, and can predict the outcome of the procedure, it does not guarantee that there are no agreements. The feeling of deals is reinforced by the new two-thirds requirement, which makes it possible for us to have a successful choice, we have to vote together for one, two or three candidates. Most of them, by the way, deserve it. This puts the entire procedure at risk because the small number of candidates makes it so that if eleven of them are not selected, if one is not even completed, then the whole procedure in its parliamentary part will be ruined, the Supreme Judicial Council will not be able to be constituted and this will lead to a severe crisis. The crisis is not just a judicial crisis constitutional. We didn't talk enough about what it says in the candidates' concepts. They were not as much of an object of attention as they were a subject of attention, namely, who had agreed with whom and whether or not they could or could not. The candidates' concepts deserve the attention. First of all, because they're objectively good. These are professionals, proven and proven not only by their CVs and CVs, but by the way they have expressed their concepts. Secondly, and perhaps more important in their concepts there are no major differences. These 18 people, raised by different people for different reasons, from different parties, identify the same problems and give similar solutions. Our candidates know what needs to be done to improve the quality of the judiciary in Bulgaria and the work of the Supreme Judicial Council in particular. Another common line in their concepts is the championship which they give to the question of independence. The independence of the Supreme Judicial Council on the one hand, of each magistrate on the other. And they are thinking, and we must support them for various guarantees and procedures to ensure this independence. They asked the question, and we need to hear them about how to hold on to the pressure. Nobody asks where this pressure comes from? And it comes from political, economic and other environments. And no guarantee will be sufficient, and it will not be as effective as any of us to assume our responsibility not to have such pressure. That's not impossible! The diagnosis of the judicial system is placed, to a large extent, in the concepts of the candidates, which, in the interest of truth, should be noted, are similar or at least not substantially contrary to the concepts and ideas which the candidates selected from the professional quotas set out. Diagnosis is set, decisions are relatively clear. Unfortunately, they were clear five years ago, but they didn't happen, and that is what we have to tell our candidates, those who will be elected, and those who will not be chosen, but will continue to work in this system for sure. It doesn't matter which party raised you. You don't owe anyone anything but yourself if you're chosen. With this thought in your head your main task will be to reach out to the decisions you have written, they are shared by your colleagues, they will be shared by the members of the new Supreme Judicial Council. You are obliged to establish a new atmosphere of work in this Council so that it will finally make those decisions that all magistrates and ultimately our citizens expect. We must vote responsibly, ladies and gentlemen of the House, because we need a Supreme Judicial Council, a new Supreme Judicial Council, and a high-quality Supreme Judicial Council. Let everyone take this responsibility and hope the procedure ends with success! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, distinguished guests and candidates! In accordance with art. 17 of the Law on the Judiciary as members of the Supreme Judicial Council are elected lawyers with high professional and moral qualities having at least 15 years of legal experience. Those qualities of candidates for members of the SJC must not be questioned at all. For society, there can be no unexplained aspects of their professional path or personal qualities that leave doubt about the selfless fulfillment of their future duties. Here I will only add from what my colleague Zarkov said in his statement there was one sentence: "Most deserve it." Okay, but what if there's a doubt that someone doesn't deserve it? Now is the time to clarify these things so there is no doubt about our choice. The choice held in the National Assembly should be preceded by in-depth hearings where applicants should be given sufficient time to present their concepts and be asked questions about their views on the work of the Supreme Judicial Council. It doesn't matter the media image of every candidate. In various printed editions, doubts have been raised as to the legality of the decisions of some of the candidates presented in certain cases of public interest and their dependence on certain organisations. There is a public opinion that obedient magistrates will be elected as members of the Supreme Judicial Council, a projection of various secret circles and organizations, which will protect only their business interests to the detriment of citizens. That is why I believe that the discussion held in the National Assembly on the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council is insufficient. During the hearing in the Legal Committee, the necessary debates on the concepts presented by the candidates were not held. It is a limited time for each candidate to set out his views on the work of the judiciary and the need for reforms. The members of the Legal Committee showed disinterest in this entire procedure and simply attended the meeting, which was practically unnecessary, given the predestination of the choice. And here to add that on the day of the elections, on March 26th, a very prominent publicist who understands elections, somewhere around five o'clock in the afternoon, given the results that started coming out of the sociological agencies, met me in one of the major national television stations and became a conversation we're going to cross the threshold, won't we pass, and he says to me: "You're going to pass, you're going to pass! I mean, someone who held the pen and thought about how far our voices would fall, so they thought that we would cross the threshold. Why am I saying this thing? Elections have passed, and that's a long time ago. I say this because it is again one of the sentences of Mr. Zarkov's speeches: If it is successful! Of course it'll be a formal success once it's agreed. There's no other way! And the minimum number of candidates, on the one hand, is proof of the arrangements, but if there were more candidates, it wouldn't be proof that there were no agreements. Already in the spring of this year, publications appeared in the media about the agreed quota meeting for four for GERB, three for BSP, two for DPS and for the United Patriarchs. The choice to be held will most likely confirm this leaked information about the behind-the-scenes games that vitiate it. During the entire procedure of society it has been suggested that candidates for the Supreme Judicial Council are carefully examined, all doubts regarding their professional qualities and morality are clarified. At the same time, the names of those who will be selected are known to a very small circle of people involved in the behind-the-scenes games between parties. During the campaign from various organizations, many questions were asked about candidates related to their moral qualities, property status, doubting corruption practices. Those questions were not answered. The legal committee has also neglected them and has made no effort to clarify them. The meaning of art. 19b of the Law on the Judiciary, according to which the National Assembly elects each member of the Supreme Judicial Council separately by a majority of two thirds of the MPs, is to select consensus figures from professionals with impeccable reputation, not wires of party and corporate interests. The slightest question of integrity should be taken into account. I will give two informations that have reached us, and in our opinion are unacceptable, for what it says about absolute integrity, for the insubordination of any circles. Most of us, I suppose, and all of us, do not know all the candidates who have been proposed to us as members of the Supreme Judicial Council, but there are media, there are other instances, there are NGOs and we have to comply with everyone's opinion. I will give some information about two of the applications, which, in our view, especially with one, are absolutely harshly violated the Rules of the National Assembly for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council. I believe that this application in this sense should not be considered. What do I mean? In Mrs. Apostolova's application, there is no explanation for the doubts raised by the Union to the auditors by the Court of Auditors about the size and origin of the property she owns, estimated at millions of levs, on the one hand. On the other hand, not that it is illegal, but as far as we understand it, Mrs. Apostolova is related to Mr. Georgi Apostolov, who is the director of the capital office of the Commission for the seizure of property acquired in a criminal way. I thought we said there wasn't gonna be any nepotism.! After all, we're all equal! Every family and every Bulgarian should have the right to be raised and elected in different places. This is one application we have certain differences against. The second application, which we believe should not be considered at all because the Rules have been violated, is Mr. Stoev's application. Again, we don't know each other here. We don't have a personal relationship. We're just talking about procedure. In the original version Mr. Stoev was proposed for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council. A proposal was submitted for him by the parliamentary group of "United patriots" on 19.06.2017, in which it is written that Stoev is a lawyer with 21 years of internship. In the declaration signed by him, it was not completed for which College it agreed to be proposed. And here comes the question that almost, for which it happens, that is, we are willing to do anything, the question is where the treaties are, where the quota remains. On the other hand, the importer Mr. Siderov did not know well enough the lawyer he proposed as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council, because he himself filed an application to the President of the Legal Commission of the National Assembly for the removal of technical errors on Mr. Stoev's proposal and asked the word "jurisdictional" to be replaced by the word "procurator" and the word "advocate," which is not the case, to be replaced by the word "juridical service." These errors are not technical, they are essential. Nowhere in the National Assembly's Decision on the adoption of the Rules for putting up candidates for members of the Supreme Judicial Council is provided for a candidate for one college to be able to skip to another college with an application for a technical error. According to these Rules, Mr. Stoev's upliftment for the prosecutor's college should have been done with a new proposal. In this sense, the opinion of the Legal Commission on the eligibility of this candidate as a member of the Prosecutor's College is incorrect. In the event of his election, this would be a violation of what we have adopted, by the National Assembly, a procedure for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council. I guess other of you have different information about different candidates. This is where we need to discuss them so that we can really choose the most worthy, and with our vote we will finally give a sign to society and to our sympathizers, members and all Bulgarians about how the National Assembly works. Thank you. [[Applause from the Parliamentary Group of Volja.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u53	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Are there any lines? No. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today is expected by the entire Bulgarian society what will be the choice of the parliamentary quota for the Supreme Judicial Council. I would like to thank all those who participated in the overall preparation and their participation in the Commission for hearing all the candidates. The entire hearing was transparent for Bulgarian citizens and this was proof that the choice was as transparent as possible. I would like to make a slightly different statement from what has been done by Mr Mareshki, because we know that for each candidate we can speak a lot, but only to state firmly that the selection on which the nominations were made in our parliamentary group, and I suppose that is what has been done in the other parliamentary groups: honourable Members, each of us as the MP has signed to nominate certain professionals in the judiciary. And let's have respect for every candidate, because at least from what I'm familiar with, there's not one of the nominees against whom there's a disciplinary procedure currently underway. Each one of the nominees has been in the justice system for over 15 years. For each of the nominees we have had the opportunity to get acquainted with their professional qualities and for them, as part of their colleagues who are in the judiciary. What is very important is that this is the first time we have made a similar choice by a new system. And here I would like to thank all the MPs who were in the forty-third parliament, because we remember that in January 2015 we adopted the Judicial Reform Strategy. And it was a majority that gave an extremely large impetus to all that was done by all the ministers of justice during these years. I would like to mention to you that in the autumn of 2015, we made constitutional changes that no one at the beginning of the formation of the forty-third Parliament believed this could happen. We have had a majority that has enabled constitutional changes to be made and that we can actually comply with the recommendations of the Venice Commission and with the recommendations of the European Commission. You know that the division of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecutor's and Judge's College gives additional autonomy to both judges and prosecutors. And most importantly, the choice will not happen by a simple majority, but the choice will happen by a qualified majority, which means that the responsibility for our decisions is very great and I see nothing wrong with that when politicians reach consensus and there is a choice that unites them. Just to remind you that for the constitutional changes, we have reached support for some of the texts with 204 MPs. Colleagues, we don't always have to look for a confrontational note to show that everyone is protecting a cause. The cause is when we find common intersections, as under the Presidency, which will start from January 2018 and is declared as a priority by all parliamentary groups that are in the current Parliament. In this way, we can actually raise the authority not only of the MPs, but we can raise the authority of the judiciary, because it also needs public and institutional support. It will receive this support from the Bulgarian Parliament and I am convinced that all those who will be elected today as representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council will be responsible and will indeed meet the expectations of society, but above all to their colleagues from the judiciary, who have been supporting them all these years or have been together in making important decisions that have enabled the state to be democratic and to be the rule of law. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Tsvetanov, honored guests! I guess nobody really bothered to introduce us to unworthy candidates. However, from what you have said, it is clear, and to a certain extent I support it, that everyone is worthy. I expect that there will be one choice in which all 18 candidates will receive an absolutely equal result, because, as far as I can understand, no parliamentary group, except ours, in relation to the Rules, had no obstructions against any candidate. And when really all candidates are so worthy, equivalent and so on, one race looks at the additional elements, for example the presence of doping, which in this case are the behind-the-scene arrangements or some other elements. Therefore, I really hope that all candidates will receive this high grade which Mr. Tsvetanov gave them. The silence of the room for problems on their applications is also proof of this, and I hope with full consensus that we will offer them all 18 by receiving an equal result. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u57	We're about to find out. Are there any other lines? I won't. There's no hole. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Let me read you the Rules one more time: the vote is carried out separately for each candidate on the order set out in the candidate list for the judge's and prosecutor's college. The candidate has been elected, who has received the most votes, but not less than two thirds of the votes of the Members of the National Assembly. In the event that more than six candidates from the College of Judges, respectively five candidates from the Prosecution College shall receive the required number of votes, as required by art. 130, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 19b of the Law on the Judiciary, among the candidates who received the necessary, but the smallest, equal number of votes, is held a runoff and the one who received the most votes is considered elected, but not less than two thirds of the total number of MPs. We'll start with the solutions. I introduce you to the relevant draft decision and we vote. This is Annex 2 of the Legal Commission Report. Project! DECISION appointing a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council From the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Angelinka Nikolova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly. Please vote. They voted 193 MPs: 59, 26, abstention 108. The offer is not accepted. Project! DECISION appointing a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council From the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Boyan Georgiev Magdalinchev as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota. Please vote. Vote 219 MPs: 213, none, abstention 6. At this stage, the project has been adopted. Since there are more candidates, there could theoretically be more than 160. We'll finally announce what the final results are. So far, the draft decision has been adopted. Next. Project! DECISION on the election of a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Boyan Chavdarov Novanski as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota for the judges. Please vote. They voted 211 MPs: 200, none, abstention 11. The draft decision has been adopted. Next. Project! DECISION appointing a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council From the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Veronica Atanasova Imova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 228 MPs: for 227, against none, abstention 1. And this Project gathers the necessary minority that must be collected.. 160. Next. Project! DECISION on the election of a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED She elected Daniela Angelova Marinova-Marcheva as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota for judges. Please vote. Vote 226 MPs: for 226, against and abstention there is no. And this Project has collected the necessary minimum. Project! DECISION on the election of a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Diana Atanasova Hitova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly. They voted 210 MPs: for 92, against 6, abstention 112. The draft decision has not been adopted. Project! DECISION on the election of a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Dragomir Asenov Koydzhikov as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota. Vote 229 MPs: 228 against 1, no abstentions. There is the minimum necessary for the project to be adopted. Next. Project! DECISION to elect a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly: The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130 para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Marina Mihailova Doichinova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota for judges. Vote 208 MPs: 91 against 7, abstention 110. The draft decision has not been adopted. Next. Project! DECISION on the election of a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Miroslav Alexandrov Dzherov as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota. Vote 177 MPs: 23, Against 14, abstention 140 The draft decision has not been adopted. Coming up next: Project! DECISION on the election of a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Nelly Lubomirova Viodorova as a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota. They voted 209 MPs: 17 against 45, abstention 147. So far, we have five elected candidates from the judge's quota. We are voting on the latest application: Project! DECISION on the election of a member for the College of Judges of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Stefan Grozdev Grozdev to be a member of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly's quota for judges. Vote 216 MPs: 198, against 4 and abstention 14. The decision's been made. That concludes the selection of the judge's quota. We have the six members selected in the order of the votes they received, selected are: Dragomir Asenov Koyadjikov, Veronika Atanasova Imova, Daniela Angelova Marinova-Marcheva, Boyan Georgiev Magdalenchev, Boyan Chavdarov Novanski and Stefan Grozdev Grozdev. We are moving on to the selection of candidates for the prosecutor's college. Project! DECISION appointing a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Vladislav Dimitrov Tomov as a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. They voted 202 MPs: for 69, against 9 and abstention 124. The draft decision has not been adopted. Next: Project! DECISION appointing a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Gergana Naydenova Mutafova as a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 225 MPs: 222, against and abstention 3. The decision's been made. Project! DECISION appointing a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Yordan Andreev Stoev as a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. Please vote! They voted 214 MPs: 184, against 7 and abstention 23. The decision's been made. Next: Project! DECISION appointing a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Kalina Stefanova Chapkenova-Kyuchukova as a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. Please vote! Vote 212 MPs: for 209, there are no abstentions 3. The decision's been made. Next: Project! DECISION appointing a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Marinela Pankova Toteva as a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. Please vote. They voted 210 MPs: 97 against 6 and 107 abstentions. The draft decision has not been adopted. Project! DECISION appointing a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED He elected Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova as a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 212 MPs: 191, against 5, abstention 16. The draft decision has been adopted. The final draft decision on the election of a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council of the National Assembly quota. Project! DECISION appointing a member for the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the National Assembly quota The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1, art. 130, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 130a, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, Art. 3, Art. 17, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 19b of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED She elected Svetlana Georgieva Boshnakova as a member of the Prosecutor's College of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of the National Assembly. Please vote. Vote 225 MPs: for 224, against no, abstention 1. The draft decision has been adopted. We have selected five of the candidates as members of the Supreme Judicial Council of the Prosecutors' College, namely by the number of votes: Svetlana Georgieva Boshnakova, Gergana Naydenova Mutafova, Kalina Stefanova Chapkenova-Kyuchukova, Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova and Yordan Andreev Stoev. There is an elected member of the Supreme Judicial Council. Once again, I'm going to introduce to you the judge and prosecutor's office who they're elected to. From the College of Judges: Dragomir Asenov Koyadjikov, Veronica Atanasova Imova, Daniela Angelova Marinova-Marcheva, Boyan Georgiev Magdalenchev, Boyan Chavdarov Novanski and Stefan Grozdev Grozdev. About the Prosecution College: Svetlana Georgieva Boshnakova, Gergana Naydenova Mutafova, Kalina Stefanova Chapkenova-Kyuchukova, Plamena Tsvetanova Apostolova and Yordan Andreev Stoev. Let's congratulate them and wish them a successful job! We thank the Committee on Legal Affairs and all MPs. [[Applause. Part of the MPs become.]] Thirty-minute break. Then we move on at 12:10. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u58	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Quaestors, invite the MPs to the Chamber! Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Honourable Members, I present to your attention Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1, of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. 2. He elected Teodora Radkova Georgieva as a member of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. Please, voting mode. Cancel the vote! Name check: Adlen Shukri Shevked is absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova is absent Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov is absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev is absent Alexander Koychev Ivanov is absent Alexander Mairov Siddy is absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov is absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov here Alexander Tihomirov Simov is absent Altimir Emilov Adamov is absent Angel Iliev, Isaev here Andon Dimov Donchev is absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova here Anton Dinev Todorov here Anton Konstantinov Kutev is absent Asya Atanasova Peeva is absent Atanas Ivanov Tashkov here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov is absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov is absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov here Bogdan Emilov Botsev is absent Boris Vangelov Borisov here Boris Petkov Kirchev here Boris Yankov Yachev is absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva is absent Burhan Ilyazov Abase here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov here Valentin Georgiev Lambev here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov is absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev is absent Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov is absent Vasil Milanov Antonov here Vasil Tsvetkov here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva here Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki is absent Veska Marinova Nencheva is absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva here Vladimir Slavchev Valev here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov is absent Volen Nikolov Siderov is absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva here Georgi Georgiev Mihaylov here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov is absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev here Georgi Evdokiev Markov is absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov is absent Georgi Kolev Kolev is absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski is absent Georgi Tanev Stankov is absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovalyski is absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov is absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova is absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov here Daniel Petkov Yordanov is absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev is absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski is absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev is absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov here Desislava Angelova Todorova here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova here Desislava Jekova Taneva absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov is absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova here Diana Dimova Sawateva here Diana Ivanova Yordanova here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov here Dimitar Boychev Petrov is absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov is absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev is absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov here Donka Dimova Simeonova here Dora Ilieva Yankova is absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva is absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov here Emil Marinov Hristov here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin is absent Errol Osman Mehmet here. Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Yvaylo Lubenov Konstantinov is absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov is absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov is absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev here Ivan Kirov Genov is absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov is absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva here Ivo Angelov Hristov here Iglika Ivanova-She's here Ilian Angelov Timchev here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova here Irena Metodieva Dimova here Irena Todorova Anastasova here Sincerely Vasilev Veselinov is absent Ihsan Halil Hakke here Yordan Apostolicov here Yordan Iliev Yordanov here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska is absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev here Kalin Nikolov Popovski here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin is absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva here Kolyo Yordanov Milev here Konstantin Veselinov Popov here Cornelia Petrova Nino is absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev here Krasimir Mitkov Subev here Krasimir Hristov Jankov here Christian Ivanov Vigenin is absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova is absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov is absent Krastina Nikolova Takova is absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev here Manoil Minchev Manev here Manol Trifonov Genov here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova here Milen Vassilev Mihov here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov is absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov here Mladen Nikolov Shishkov here Mustafa Sally Karadaye is absent. Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova is absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer here Nikola Iliev Dinkov here Nikolay Asenov Tishev is absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov is absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov here Nina Peycheva Mitkova is absent Nona Krasteva Yotova here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov here We have a quorum. I will read the colleagues who have additionally entered: Alexander Siddi, Alexander Matsurev, Alexander Simov, Adlen Shevked, Alexander Ivanov, Alexander Sabanov, Georgi Gokov, Anton Kutev, Georgi Stoilov, Valentin Milushev, Daniel Yordanov, Veska Nencheva, Alexander Paunov, Albena Naydenova, Bogdan Bocev, Dencho Boyadjiev, Atanas Kostadinov. We have a quorum. We're continuing the hearing. I put to the vote the proposal, which is for a change in the composition of the Committee on Policies for Bulgarians abroad. I've read it. Please, colleagues, let us vote on the release of Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev and the election of Teodora Radkova Georgieva. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Proposal from the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Teodora Radkova Georgieva as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. 2. He elected Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev as a member of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. Please vote. They voted 129 MPs: 127, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I will now introduce you to another Project for a decision by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on the Environment and Water The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED She elected Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova as a member of the Committee on Environment and Water. Please vote. They voted 132 MPs: 130, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT FOR THE DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR THE PROCEEDING OF THE PROCEEDING AND RESTRUCTURING OF THE CANDIDATE FOR THE REPRESENTATIVE, THE REPRESENTATIVE, THE REPRESENTATIVE, THE REPRESENTATIVE, THE REPRESENTATIVE AND THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE CANDIDATE IN THE COMMISSION OF THE BUDGET AND FINLAND, AND THE RESTRUCTURING PROCEDURE OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE RESTRUCTION. Here you are, fellow Members, to read the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on draft decision to adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the management of the investment activity and of a candidate for a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board, of the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, and the procedure for election by the National Assembly At a meeting held on 14 September 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed rules of procedure for holding a public procedure under art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the election of two Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. The adoption of the Rules of Procedure is necessary in relation to the election of new Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission due to the expiry of the term of office of Angel Zhalazov as Vice-President of the Board of Directors on 15 July 2014 and the terminated early term of office of Nikolay Popov as Vice-President of the Board of Directors on 12 November 2014. 5, para. 2 in relation to Art. 6, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act, the National Assembly must elect two Vice-Presidents of the Financial Supervision Commission. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 20 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and adopt the following: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Board of Directors and of a Vice-President, Head of the Management Board, Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 5, para. 2 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management of the investment activity and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of management, the Financial Supervision Commission, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Board of Directors and a candidate for a Vice-President, head of the Management Board, to the Financial Supervision Commission, and presentation of their documents. 1. The proposals for individual candidates for vice-presidents, responsible for managements, shall be submitted in writing by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission to the Committee on Budget and Finance through the President of the National Assembly within 7 days of the adoption of these rules of procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to each proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template. (a) Annex 1 to the decision; (b) Declaration under art. 4, para. 1 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act "Annex No 2 to the Decision; (c) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3" to the Decision; (d) a detailed CV; (e) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for a completed higher legal or economic education with a minimum degree of education and qualification of a Master's degree; (f) evidence of criminality; (g) documents certifying that the proposed candidate has a good professional reputation, professional experience and meets the requirement for work and/or service in the field of law, economy or finance for at least 5 years. II. Public disclosure of documents. The proposals, together with the documents attached to them, shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Budget and Finance not later than three days before the hearing of the candidates, including questions to be addressed to the Commission on Budget and Finance. The media may send questions to the Committee on Budget and Finance to the candidates to be asked. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Bulgaria. "Knyaz Alexander I" No 1, Budget and Finance Committee, or by e-mail: budget@parliament.bg. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Budget and Finance. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. It's a hearing of the candidates. 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Budget and Finance Committee shall verify the documents submitted and whether each of them meets the requirements for the position concerned. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission within two minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Each candidate shall present its concept of management activities in the Financial Supervision Commission for which it is proposed by the Chair of the Financial Supervision Commission within 20 minutes. 5. The Committee on Budget and Finance shall hold debates on the proposals made. Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to each of the candidates within two minutes of a Member of the National Assembly. Upon completion of the questions asked to each candidate by all Members of the National Assembly, he shall answer within 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Budget and Finance shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 10 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of the candidates and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to elect each of the candidates as vice-president in charge of the relevant management of the Financial Supervision Commission. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the other candidate for the position concerned. V. Election of a candidate for Vice-President in the Committee for Financial Supervision by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear in the summary the report submitted by the Committee on Budget and Finance. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annex No 1, No 2 and No 3 to the Decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u60	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. I give the floor for speeches of the read-out Project for a solution. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, I vote on the draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of the management of the investment and of a candidate for a vice-president in charge of management, the Financial Supervision Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Budget and Finance, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. We vote on the draft decision plus the three annexes to it. They voted 111 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL AGENCIES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND HEARING OF CANDIDATES IN THE CULTURE AND MEDIA COMMISSION, AND THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF THE RESTRUCTURING OF THE CANDIDATES OF THE CULTURE AND MEDIA COMMISSION. Mrs. Sawateva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u61	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The Committee on Culture and Media at a regular meeting held on 14 September 2017 discussed the Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. The adoption of the rules of procedure for the election of the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency is implemented by art. 93, para. 1 and para. 7 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. The term of office of the current Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency expires on 21 December 2017. 12, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency The National Assembly should elect a Director-General two months before the term of office of the current Director-General expires. After a vote, the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly with 14 votes to consider and adopt the following draft decision, with four annexes to it for model declarations: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in relation to art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly: I. Offering candidates for Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. 1. Proposals for candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency may be made by parliamentary groups or by MPs. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the President of the National Assembly to the Committee on Culture and Media within 7 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals for a candidate for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency are accompanied by written reasons that justify the good professional reputation of the candidate. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: (a) the written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex No 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for acquired higher education with an educational and qualification degree of Master; (d) a criminal record; (e) a statement by model, according to Annex 2 to the decision that the applicant has Bulgarian citizenship and meets the requirement under art. 11, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; (f) a statement in accordance with Annex 3 to the decision that the circumstances under art. 11, para. 1, t. 4-7 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; (g) a copy of a work or insurance book certifying the existence of professional experience in the field of mass media, as required by art. 11, para. 1, t. 3 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency; (h) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to Annex 4 to the Decision. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals for candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and the documents to them shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly no later than 14 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposals and the documents under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. All data in the documents of the candidates as Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, which are personal data within the meaning of the Personal Data Protection Act, are deleted. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit to the Culture and Media Commission no later than three days before the hearing of candidates, opinions on the proposed candidates, including questions to be asked during the hearing. 4. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Culture and Media to candidates to be placed during the hearing no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia 1169, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Committee on Culture and Media or by e-mail address: kkm@parliament.bg. 7. The opinions and the questions on this matter. 3 and 4 shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly within three days of their receipt, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency shall be checked for membership of the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Committee on Culture and Media. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Verification of the documents submitted for admission of applicants to a hearing. 1. The Committee on Culture and Media shall, within three days of the expiry of the period referred to in Section I. 1 sends a list of candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency at the Directorate General for Civic Registration and Administrative Service at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to check citizenship as required by art. 11, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency and the absence of the legal restriction under art. 11, para. 1, t. 4 of the same law. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media shall, at its meeting, verify the documents submitted and whether the candidates comply with the relevant legal requirements for taking up the post for which they are proposed. 3. The Committee on Culture and Media may require additional information from both applicants and the relevant competent authority. 4. Candidates who have not submitted the documents under Section I shall not be allowed to the hearing. 2. 5. Following the verification, the Committee on Culture and Media shall draw up a list of applicants admitted to a hearing. The list shall be prepared in alphabetical order of the applicant's own names and shall be published immediately on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates. 1. The Committee on Culture and Media shall only hear the applicants admitted, and the order shall be determined according to the list set out in Section IV. 5. 2. The hearing is public and is held in an open meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. 3. Each candidate is presented by the importer of the proposal for the election of the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency within two minutes for each candidate. The presentation shall also include details of the specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support of the applicant. 4. Each candidate is given the opportunity for personal presentation, including to complement data from his professional biography and to present his views on the development of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency within 15 minutes. 5. The President of the Committee on Culture and Media shall present in summary the opinions and questions received by the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Within two minutes for each question. 6. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 5 to 10 minutes. 7. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidates, including questions contained in the opinions of the persons referred to in art. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Within two minutes for each candidate. 8. The candidates shall answer their questions referred to in paragraph 1. 7 to 10 minutes. 9. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Committee on Culture and Media shall prepare and submit to the National Assembly a report on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of the Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency with the content set out in art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 11. When several candidates for the post of Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency were heard, the report under the heading "The Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency' was received. 10 a list of candidates who participated in the hearing shall be applied in alphabetical order of their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the post of Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. 12. The report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the results of the hearing of candidates for the appointment of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency shall be provided to the Members of the National Assembly no later than 24 hours before the start of the meeting at which the candidates will be voted and shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. VI. Election of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency of the National Assembly 1. The meeting, which is held by the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Culture and Media shall present to the National Assembly a report on the hearing of candidates for the appointment of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency. 3. Each candidate shall be submitted by the proposer of the selection proposal within two minutes for each candidate. 4. Following the submission of the report under point (c) of the Annex to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 2 and candidates in accordance with the order of point 2. 3, The National Assembly shall hold debates on the submitted nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. During the debates, the Members of the National Assembly may raise questions to the candidates. 5. After the debate is concluded, candidates for Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency can make speeches and answer the questions asked to them within 10 minutes. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. 7. In cases where there are several candidates for the post of Director General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 8. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 9. In the event that two or more candidates have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 10. In the event that none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 11. In cases where, in the case of the re-voting under point (c), 10 None of the candidates shall receive the necessary votes, or when any of the candidates for the position withdraws from the election before the election of his candidacy by the National Assembly, and he shall be the only candidate, as well as in cases where there are no candidates for the position, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new procedure for the election of the Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency by the National Assembly. Four applications of declarations follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the so-read draft decision. Please vote on Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the submission of candidates for Director-General of the Bulgarian Telegraph Agency, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates in the Committee on Culture and Media and the procedure for selection by the National Assembly. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND FOR PRESENTATION OF CANDIDATES FOR A PRESENT, A DEPARTANT, A SECRETAR AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESENTITY OF BULGARIAN CROSSED TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATION OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY, THE PRESENTATION AND THE PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION OF INTERNAL SECURITY AND SITUATION, AND THE PROCEEDENCE OF THE PROCITATION OF THE PROCEEDENCE OF THE PEOPLE'S DECTION. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on draft decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Commissioners of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. At a meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee discussed Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for their election by the National Assembly. The adoption of Rules of Procedure is necessary in relation to the expiry of the term of office of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. After the discussion, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 9 votes for the resolution, 1 against the resolution and 7 abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 5 and 6 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Offering candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Proposals for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army shall be made by the parliamentary groups. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order through the President of the National Assembly within 14 days of the adoption of these Rules of Procedure by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals are accompanied by written reasons that justify the high professional and moral qualities, as well as the public authority and trust of the applicant. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant in accordance with Annex No 1 to the decision; (b) a detailed CV; (c) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education; (d) a statement of the circumstances and details of art. 5, para. 3 and 4 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, pursuant to Annex No 2; (e) a criminal record and a medical certificate that the person does not suffer from a mental illness; (f) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army, according to Annex 3 in duplicate; (g) written consent to carry out a reliability study under the Classified Information Protection Act, pursuant to Annex 3. 3. Where the applicant does not hold a valid permission to access classified information with a classification level of "Strogo classified', to the proposal other than the documents referred to in paragraph 1. 2 shall apply: (a) an official note from the National Investigation Service certifying the absence of preliminary proceedings for committed criminal offences of general nature................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 147, para. 1, t. 1, b. the Rules for the Protection of Classified Information Act; (b) notarized declaration under art. 74, para. 2, item 1 of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code......................................................................................... 147, para. 1, t. 1, b. The Rules of Procedure for the Protection of Classified Information Act. (c) for carrying out a reliability study under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information with a classification level of "Strogo Secret"............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 47, Art. 48 of the Classified Information Protection Act. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the accompanying documents referred to in Section I, shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 2 except questionnaire replies under section I, i.e. 3, b. The specialized thematic website of the National Assembly shall be published no later than 7 days before the hearing. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. 2. Non-profit legal entities and professional organisations registered for public use may submit opinions to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order on applicants, including issues to be referred to them no later than 3 days before the hearing of candidates. 3. The mass media may send questions to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order to candidates to be placed during the hearing no later than 3 days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 5. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I" No 1, Internal Security and Public Order Committee, or by e-mail: kvsor@parliament.bg 6. Opinions and questions shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. III. Perform verification under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army shall be checked on the circumstances and data under art. 5, para. 4 t. 2, 3 and 4 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 2. The request for verification under point (c) of paragraph 1 shall be submitted to the competent authorities of the Member States. 1 shall be made by the President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order to the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the security services and the public order services within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 1 and 2 of the Classified Information Protection Act. 3. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and the Law on the Protection of Personal Data. IV. Perform a security clearance check to access classified information with a classified classification level. 1. In the event that applicants do not have a valid permission to access classified information at the level of "Strogo Secrets" the Chair of the Internal Security Commission shall send to the State Agency the documents submitted to the applicants for carrying out a reliability study. 2. The State Agency is conducting a special study within the meaning of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information within 14 days. V. Hearing of admitted candidates. 1. Within 14 days of the submission of the documents under art. 6 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents for the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order examines the circumstances under art. 5, para. 4 t. 2, 3 and 4 of the same law. 2. Within 7 days of receipt of the information under art. 6, para. 2 and 3 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents for the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to State Security and the Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army The Internal Security and Public Order Commission shall check the documents presented and whether the candidates meet the requirements for taking up the respective position. 3. The hearing of applicants meeting the requirements shall be carried out within 7 days of the completion of the verification under point 1. 2 in an open meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, which is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 4. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members in an exhibition within 3 minutes. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 5. Each candidate is given the opportunity to present his concept of work as Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary or Member of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army in an exhibition within 7 minutes. 6. The President of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order shall present in summary the persons who have received under the terms and conditions of Section II, i.e. 2 et c. 3 opinions and questions. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 5 minutes. 8. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the candidate. The time for questioning is up to 2 minutes. 9. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after the questions asked to him have been exhausted. The response time is up to five minutes. 10. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 11. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing in which the candidates are represented and submit it to the National Assembly. If several candidates for the position concerned have been heard, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee shall apply to the report a list of candidates participating in the hearing, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. VI. Election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army by the National Assembly. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. 3. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 4. The National Assembly shall elect separately the President of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, Vice-President, Secretary and six members. 5. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. In the event that two or more candidates for one position have received an equal number of votes, a re-vote shall be held between them. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 20 September 2017 and was stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly. Annex No 1 to the Declaration Decision. Annex No 2 to the Declaration Decision. Annex 3 to the Decision
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Some changes were made to Part I, t. 2 letter g, t. 3 et c. 3 letter a. Is there a debate? Here you are, Mr. Yankov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With regard to the proposal for adoption of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Commissioners of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, I think that we should conduct an analysis and answer the question whether the ten years in which this Commission is working are not enough and if there is more to be announced in the past so that we do not see the possibility of more incomes in our society, for higher salaries of teachers, policemen, for higher pensions, for more funds for Bulgarian children. Is this the agenda that citizens want from us, or should the agenda be inequality and opportunities through legislation to overcome this inequality? The fight against poverty and those people who are below the poverty line, do they not expect us to think about the future and find concrete solutions to overcome the demographic crisis? In its ten-year existence, this body, instead of bringing clarity and narrowing down the limits of intolerance and hatred in our society, has brought more confusion and has caused scandals with mixed and sometimes mutually exclusive information that it has revealed. It should be arranged differently to inform the Bulgarian citizens of what are the documents from the security services in the period until 1989 and the so-called "theme" for the files of the former secret services. The information, knowledge that lies in the thousands of cases and documents of the previous security services is very specific and, of course, valuable for the study and consideration of the then public policy order. However, the work relating to the documents and their archives can and should be provided to the Archive Agency. However, it is important to suspend the practice of selective and purposefully declaring data by the administrative authority entrusted with the management of the archive and carrying out membership checks. Ten years of this Commission's work. In ten years, over 40 million budget. Is the period for which it is working sufficient, and should there be an announcement of information in the future? As you know, with a few amendments to the Law, the scope of this Commission has been extended, and in my opinion, the legislator's philosophy has also changed when it was adopted in 2006, because information is already being revealed relating to the work of the state authorities abroad, which could create to some extent complex interstate relations, which would also lead to limiting the opportunities for attracting investors. And once again I bring you back to the topic of the opportunities Bulgaria has as a country with traditional relations with many countries that can contribute to economic growth with which we decide the agenda of society. The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is opposed to the procedure for selecting a new composition of the Commission and will submit a proposal to end its activities and transfer the documents to a target institute or agency that will enable interested parties to still be aware of their relevant information. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u66	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to the MP's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the changes made to the report tabled by the Commission in Part I. They voted 129 MPs: 90 against 35, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We now vote on the entire Draft Decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the proposal of candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Commissioners of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, the presentation and public disclosure of documents and the hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Please vote on the whole Project Decision. Vote 136 MPs: 93, against 39, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importer of the Council of Ministers, 1 August 2017 I request the submission of the report to the committee responsible. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u67	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. At its meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov from the Ministry of Justice. Madam President, I apologise for interrupting the report because Deputy Minister Evgeni Stoyanov is in parliament and is currently ready to participate in this first reading. Therefore, I ask you to interrupt the report with a procedure for the admission of Deputy Minister Evgeni Stoyanov from the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u68	Please vote on admission to the Deputy Minister's room. They voted 109 MPs: 108, against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Invite the Deputy Minister to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u69	Thank you. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, who pointed out that it aims to introduce the requirements of several EU directives into national legislation. The draft Law introduces the provisions of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 August 2013 on attacks against information systems and replaces Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA. The establishment of minimum rules on the definition of criminal offences and penalties in the field of attacks against information systems is envisaged, with the aim of preventing such offences and improving cooperation between judicial authorities and other competent authorities. The bill proposes the introduction of the requirements of Directive 2014/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on criminal sanctions for market abuse. It is proposed that in Chapter 7 of the Special Part of the Penal Code provisions should be established from art. Article 260a 260c to strengthen measures against market abuse. The third directive introduced by the Draft Law is Directive 2014/62/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on protection by criminal law of the euro and of other currency signs against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA with the aim of ensuring appropriate protection of the euro and other monetary signs authorised by Law by means of effective and effective criminal measures. The bill proposes an addition to the existing arrangements with a view to a more effective counter-terrorism, extending the scope of incitement to and the threat of committing not only terrorism but also terrorist activities. A new qualified composition of the theft shall be introduced when the act is committed for the purpose of terrorism. In the current regulatory framework, piracy is recognised only in respect of an aircraft, but with respect to a ship there is no regulation. In this regard, it is proposed in accordance with the Convention on the High Sea in force for Bulgaria of 30 September 1962, in art. 341b of the Criminal Code to be added to the vessel, thus any unlawful act of violence, detention or robbery at sea, or in international waters carried out by the crew of a private vessel for private purposes and directed against another vessel, its crew or property, is intended to be punished as a maritime piracy. In order to ensure the protection of exclusive state property, the conservation of land, land, forests and natural resources is proposed to incriminate illegal mining of underground riches throughout the country with the creation of art. 240a of the penal code. The closing provisions also provide for amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure relating to the determination of the conviction of certain criminal groups, as well as to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, in order to impose administrative criminal sanctions against legal persons who have been enriched or would be enriched by a criminal offence under those provisions. On the bill were received opinions from the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Republic of Bulgaria and from the Supreme Council of Laws. The discussion was attended by the MPs Simeon Naydenov, Yavor Notev, Danail Kirilov and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Naydenov, Mr. Notev and Mr. Kirilov expressed their support for the bill, as Mr. Notev pointed out the need for his clarification between first and second readings. Mr. Zarkov noted that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will refrain from supporting the bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Criminal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. There is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u71	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-00-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice. This bill aims to harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with the requirements of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 August 2013 on attacks against information systems and replacing Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA; Directive 2014/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on criminal sanctions for market abuse and Directive 2014/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 May 2014 on protection in criminal matters of the euro and of other monetary signs against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA. The introduction of those Directives is enshrined in the Action Plan for 2017 with the measures resulting from the membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union. II. With regard to the transposition of Directive 2013/40/EU, the importer shall propose a replacement in the Criminal Code of the concept of the computer system with the concept of the information system, in order to extend its scope. It is also envisaged to synchronise the compositions and the amount of penalties in a number of articles related to illegal access to information systems, illegal interference with information systems and computer data, as well as their illegal seizure. For this purpose in art. 319 b of the Criminal Code will be included in the actions: the transfer, the damage, the deterioration, the concealment and the suspension of access to computer data in an information system. The same article also criminalises the creation of botsnetite (the establishment of computer control through malware by cyber attacks). The need to introduce the relevant provisions of the Directive within the time limit is linked to a initiated infringement procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria, which is at the stage of a reasoned opinion. III. In addition, the bill should transpose the requirements of Directive 2014/57/EU by changing the Special Part of the Penal Code to strengthen measures against market abuse. It is envisaged the introduction of criminal sanctions which have a stronger public impact than administrative, as market abuse damages the integrity of financial markets and undermines public confidence. IV. In relation to the synchronization of the Criminal Code with the provisions of Directive 2014/62/EU for the protection of the euro and other monetary signs, it is proposed to supplement art. 244, para. 1 of the Criminal Code, including two new enforcement activities: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 244 a. 1 shall be introduced in the execution activities:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3 paragraphs 2 and 3 of the Directive. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 246, para. 3 shall be complementary to both the subject of the execution of the acts of................................. and any other means.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Article 3 (1) (d) of the Directive. V. It should be noted that the draft aims to implement the recommendations of the Committee of Experts to assess measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing (MONEYVAL) to the Council of Europe by bringing national legislation into line with the requirements of a number of conventions and protocols ratified by the Republic of Bulgaria. At the 55th plenary meeting of the Committee at the end of December 2017, a draft report on Bulgaria's progress on the measures taken in the framework of the IV round of evaluation will be reviewed and if it is considered that the recommendations of MONEYVAL for countermeasures have been implemented, our country will be removed from the monitoring mechanism under which it was put after the Mutual Assessment Report in 2013. If Bulgaria does not demonstrate real progress in relation to the findings, given that four years have passed, at the meeting in December 2017. The Plenum of the MONEYVAL Committee could be invited to consider placing the country under the so-called procedures for improving compliance. VI. The amendments envisaged complement the current legislation with a view to more effective countering terrorism by criminalising its financing as well as activities related to recruitment, training and travel for terrorism purposes; the composition of the theft shall be supplemented by the introduction of a new qualified composition when the act is carried out for terrorism purposes. The amendments address and comply with provisions laid down in the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on combating terrorism, which is due to be adopted by the end of the year. Last but not least, it should be noted that an amendment to art. 251 of the Criminal Code relating to an additional letter of formal notice received, C (2016) 2395 of 28 April 2016 by the General Secretariat of the European Commission relating to infringement No 2012/2085 of the European Commission's description to remedy a contradiction to the regime of sanctions for the undeclared of cash on exit or entry into the European Union. Following the presentation of the motives by the Deputy Minister of Justice, on his part and by the President of the Commission, it was stressed that the bill was postponed for discussion and adoption due to the early termination of the 43rd National Assembly's term of office. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds unanimously proposed that the National Assembly adopt, by 8 votes for the Council of Ministers, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u72	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The next report belongs to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u73	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Amending and Supplemental Bill of the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. The meeting was attended by Deputy Minister of Justice Evgeni Stoyanov. On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Evgeni Stoyanov. The main objective of the Bill is the introduction into national law of the requirements of the following Directives: - Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 August 2013 on attacks against information systems and replacing Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA; - Directive 2014/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on criminal sanctions for market abuse (Directive on market abuse); - Directive 2014/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on the protection of the euro and other currency against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA. The proposed Bill is made and agreed until the entry into force of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legislative Acts (KNOC) (GW, SG No. 34 from 2016) and, on the basis of § 9 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the requirement to draw up a partial impact assessment and a reference to compliance with the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights shall not apply. The bill introduces the provisions of Directive 2013/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 August 2013 on attacks against information systems and replacing Council Framework Decision 2005/222/JHA. The introduction of the Directive is also linked to a procedure launched against the Republic of Bulgaria for non-transposing within the framework of the provisions of the Directive, requiring urgent action to transpose it, including the adoption of amendments by the legislative authority. Directive 2013/40/EU lays down minimum rules for the definition of criminal offences and penalties in the field of attacks against information systems in order to help prevent such offences and improve cooperation between judicial authorities and other competent authorities. Information systems are a key element of political, social and economic interaction in the European Union. The smooth functioning and security of these systems in the EU are vital for the development of the internal market and of a competitive and innovative economy. The provision of adequate levels of protection of information systems should be part of an overall effective framework for preventive measures accompanying the response of criminal law to cybercrime. Next, the bill proposes introducing the requirements of Directive 2014/57/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 April 2014 on criminal sanctions for market abuse (Directive on market abuse). It is proposed that provisions should be established in Chapter 7 of the Special Part (Art. 260a-260c) to strengthen measures against market abuse. Criminal sanctions are envisaged, which are an expression of a stronger public impact than administrative sanctions. The integrated and efficient financial market and the availability of more confidence on the part of investors requires fair market relations. The smooth functioning of securities markets and the confidence of the public in these markets are necessary prerequisites for economic growth and prosperity. The third directive introduced by the Draft Law is Directive 2014/32/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on protection by criminal law of the euro and of other monetary signs against counterfeiting and replacing Council Framework Decision 2000/383/JHA. The above amendments shall be imposed both in relation to the international acts and standards adopted by the United Nations and the Council of Europe, and shall address those provided for in the proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the fight against terrorism and replacing Council Framework Decision 2002/475/JHA on the fight against terrorism. Members of the National Assembly Todor Baychev, Stanislav Vladimirov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 15 votes for the Criminal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u74	Thank you, Mr. Manev. The latest report on the bill belongs to the Energy Commission. Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. At its regular meeting on 14 September 2017, the Energy Commission discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2017. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Justice: Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Minister; from the Ministry of Energy Mr. Krasimir Parvanov, Deputy Minister of Energy, presented the reasons for the proposed provision of art.240a of the Penal Code concerning the criminalisation of illegal mining of underground riches. In connection with numerous signals received to carry out illegal mining of underground riches throughout the country, the criminalisation of this act, which currently constitutes an administrative infringement, is proposed. The proposed change would lead both to the prevention of the conduct of this illegal activity and to a more effective procedure for the identification of the act and of its perpetrators and the imposition of punishment. Direct losses for the state from illegal mining of underground wealth are estimated at millions of levs per year. The scale of violations is such that it not only damages the state budget, but also causes non-money losses, which are inherently damaging the relief, land, cultural heritage, endangers citizens. The inefficiency of the current control order is evident to both institutions and businesses (consecutors) and the offenders themselves. First of all, the capture of offenders and the undeniable identification of the infringement is extremely difficult to carry out by the inspectors of the Ministry of Energy. Administrative proceedings are largely limited by means of evidence and means compared to criminal proceedings, which justifies a lower rate of detection of infringements committed. No less important is the fact that, for many of the offenders, the intended penalty for a fine/property penalty cannot be imposed due to the inability to collect. In other cases, the economic benefit of the infringement is far greater than the prescribed penalty. In this sense, the proposal aims to ensure significantly greater protection of exclusive state property, the conservation of land, land, forests and natural resources. The debate on the bill was attended by the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Tasco Ermenkov. People's representative Delyan Dobrev supported the proposed provision, paying attention to the need for editorial amendments in one of the texts in art.240a. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov also supported the text of art.240a, as it fills a gap in legal peace. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the vote, the Energy Committee with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt at first reading the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 702-01-10, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u76	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! There is no question about the need for our society for a new Penal Code or the current changes that will satisfy the ordinary citizen and his idea of what an unlawful act is to be clearly defined and what punishment should be imposed on the child who committed the act. The changes that are being proposed to us at the moment do not answer a fundamental question: what are the social-political and economic realities requiring changes to the current Penal Code, respectively which changed public relations need modern regulation? The importer refers only to the EU directives and not to the need for these changes in order to alleviate any public relations in our society. It is true that the complete codification of Bulgarian criminal law has been maintained and the concept of criminal law has been preserved and texts, consistent with the case-law and international law, as well as the state's commitments in our international law, have been proposed. At first glance, it can be concluded that the new system of individual provisions is logical and a legal requirement for the title and qualification of any criminal composition is met, but in practice this is not the case. It is noted that the mechanical transfer of wording of the European Union directives to the proposed provisions of the Criminal Code is not the most appropriate way to formulate criminal norms. The establishment of minimum rules for determining offences and penalties in the field of attacks against information systems is envisaged, with the aim of preventing such offences and improving cooperation between judicial authorities and other competent authorities. The proposal for a change is timely, but unfortunately, it is impractical and can be interpreted as having access to the information system without access to the data, there is still danger and the child should be punished. We need to make a clear definition that it is not about access to the system itself, but about the data in it, it is an element of the criminal composition and therefore its qualifications in the relevant hypotheses. § 13 of the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code establishes a new para. 2 of art. 251. This is linked to a breach of the obligations to declare money, precious metals, precious stones and so on, which are concealed in a special way. This qualifying character of the enforcement act is also unclear, allows for a different and inconsistent interpretation and needs to be refined. Keeping it like this will only cause problems in law enforcement. It is not clear what is the accent put by the legislator "Whether the higher public danger of the act is related to the fact of the concealment, or the place, the way, the means and so on. Each concealment is aimed at making it difficult to access the hidden object and is specific. It is also proposed that Chapter 7 of the special part of the Penal Code should lay down provisions with Articles 260a to 260c to strengthen measures against market abuse. It is good that it will finally qualify compositions for the use of internal information that only a certain range of persons have access to. Our society is sensitive to what we have done by people who have benefited from their position of office, which gives them access to specific information. I would like to ask the following question: why are low penalties provided for white collar criminals? The acts generated by them are particularly damaging to the victim whether he is a natural, legal person, country or municipality. Their actions undermine confidence in the financial and banking system. I'll remind you of our foreign debt and CCB deals and the consequences that have occurred. Does something have to happen again to rush in and overwhelm the punishments of these groups? The next directive, which is introduced by the Bill, is on protection in criminal law of the euro and other currency signs against counterfeiting. Here the act of execution is outlined blank. It is in violation of the regime laid down for these values and so on, but it definitely needs to be refined again. The Bill proposes an addition to an effective Anti-terrorist Mechanism, qualified compositions that have not been covered and incriminated so far. In order to ensure the protection of exclusive state property, the conservation of land, land, forests and natural resources is proposed to incriminate illegal mining of underground riches throughout the country with the creation of art. 240a of the penal code. This problem was spoken of after Pernik's signal about illegal coal mining. This caused subsidence of land layers and collapse of whole residential buildings. In addition to this problem for Pernik, which is characteristic, there are other places to carry out such illegal extractions, including inerts, and the loss for the State is estimated at millions of levs. What continues to disturb us and I have expressed it as an opinion in committee are the low penalties provided for these socially dangerous acts, which are of a high degree of factual and legal complexity. More human and financial resources are needed for their disclosure, more time, and the importer looks more favorably at their perpetrators, as in the general composition of the acts the intended punishment is less than that of ordinary theft, for example. I would like to say that in the Bulgarian Socialist Party, we firmly believe that the penalties provided for by the current amendments to the Penal Code should be increased, especially with regard to socially dangerous acts such as terrorism and forgery of monetary signs. Public security and the financial system are part of our national security and we cannot allow their sabotage, destruction or undermining. In view of the above, all I can say so far is that the proposed changes to the Criminal Code are only a mechanical implementation of the directives of the European Union and their transposition into the Bulgarian legislation, not taking into account the specifics of the Bulgarian socio-economic life in the country. Therefore, we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will refrain from supporting the bill in this form and reserve the right to submit proposals for adjustments between first and second readings. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-20.u78	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. With this statement, we are adjourned today's sitting. The debates on the Bill will continue tomorrow. Regular meeting at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
