ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u1	Good morning, fellow Members, we have a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I have the great pleasure to introduce our dear guest to the President of the Parliament of Greece. He is leading an official delegation and will now address you. Let's welcome him. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I would like to thank you very much for the invitation you have given me to visit your beautiful country and for your warm hospitality. Most of all, however, I would like to thank you for the honour you have given me by giving me the opportunity to address you from the stands of the National Assembly. In the parliament of Bulgaria, as in every democratic country, the heart of Bulgarian democracy is pulsing: here are adopted the legislative acts that are decisive for the progress and development of the country, here is strengthened the state of law, here is controlled and accountable for the executive power. Dear friends! Greek-Bulgarian friendship proves in the best possible way that even the multi-suffering Balkans overcome nationalisms and build relationships of trust, cooperation and friendship are possible when the necessary political will exists. Greece and Bulgaria, two neighbouring countries in Southeast Europe, with centuries of history and strong cultures, often, even in the less distant past, had conflicting interests, incompatible claims, found ourselves in opposing camps and fought against each other. However, the awareness of the need for progress in our relations with the main purpose of preserving stability in our region and the prosperity of our peoples became very rapid. Many years followed, during which our relationship deepened with consistency and persistence. The inclusion of Bulgaria in the European Union, for which Greece is working hard, marks a new phase in the Greek-Bulgarian relations, which already have a positive response throughout our region. Thus, already Greek-Bulgarian relations represent the driving force not only of intra-Balkan cooperation, but also of our common endeavour to place Southeast Europe in the epicenter of the European Union's priorities. Greece and Bulgaria have created dynamic formats of regional cooperation. These formats honor, respect the European Union framework, promote solidarity in the Community, pursue the general application of European rules, contrary to what often happens in other groups of Member States of the European Union. You understand who I'm talking about. Thus, our goal, acting within the European framework, is: - firstly, to work towards strengthening security in the region of South East Europe by overcoming the nationalist approach which acts to deter our progress and prosperity and to strengthen solutions for regional issues; - secondly, to work jointly and constructively on the migration and refugee problem, according to the principle of European solidarity, while fully respecting the rights of refugees and immigrants; - thirdly, to cooperate closely on common European development projects in strategic sectors of the economy, such as energy, on projects such as the TAP pipeline, such as the IGB interconnector, on the vertical corridor Greece, Bulgaria, Romania, and the railway links that will be mutually beneficial to the economies of our countries and will increase communication between our peoples; - fourthly, to give a new impetus to the solar agenda and to put again on the table of the European Union to discuss the process of accession to the Union of the Western Balkan countries. Thanks to our experience as Member States of the European Union, we can offer expertise to our neighbours and contribute to the rapid progress of negotiations, of course, by following the principle of convention; - in fifth place, I would say, it is particularly important that we work together so that the European Union does not become a formal union of concentric circles and regional alliances of states, such as special economic zones with constant inequalities and social deviations. As naturally stems from all this, the upcoming Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union comes at the right time so as to give new dynamics to these aspirations. As your Prime Minister Boyko Borisov noted: the Bulgarian Presidency wishes to act as a Balkan presidency. This idea was warmly accepted by the leaders of Bulgaria, Serbia, Romania and Greece, who recently met in Varna. During this meeting, it was decided to propose the organisation of a summit of the European Union and the Western Balkans during the Bulgarian Presidency, which will be dedicated to the objectives I have just mentioned. Dear colleagues, Greece will be side by side with Bulgaria during the Presidency and will provide her with any possible support. During the end-of-October visit of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the Bulgarian National Assembly in Athens, we will be given the opportunity to exchange views on European policy with a focus on common foreign policy, security policy and the common defence policy that will be put during the Bulgarian Presidency. In parallel, Greek lawmakers are ready to share the experience they acquired during the previous Greek presidencies. In our delegation is the Chairman of the Friendship Group with Bulgaria from the Greek Parliament Mrs. Panagiota Dryzeli. At the same time, with the joint debate on the future and architecture of the European Union, the European Union must strengthen its social character, limit social inequalities, increase its democratic legitimacy and propose ways of strengthening cohesion and cohesion. Only with effective and reliable solutions on these issues will a united Europe remain and the forces of populism, the extreme right and Euroscepticism be defeated. In this undertaking, the role of national parliaments must actively participate in the dialogue on the future of Europe is crucial. Dear colleagues, the seriousness and importance of these topics are a difficult role for the Bulgarian Presidency. However, I am sure that Bulgaria will work with the necessary dedication and diligence for their resolution by rejecting regional and social inequalities within the European Union and making efforts for a Europe in which Member States will be really not formally equal and will resolve the issues of policies that they are called upon to implement, with full respect for citizens' rights. In this effort, Greece will be your friend and supporter. We'll go this way together. Thank you very much. [[Loud and long applause. The Greek delegation comes out, MPs send it straight with applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u3	Dear colleagues, we are continuing today's plenary day. I would like to read you a message on supplementing the composition of the leadership of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. On 18 October 2017, the General Assembly of the Parliamentary Group supplemented the composition of its leadership by deciding: He elected Vice-Presidents of the BSP parliamentary group for Bulgaria Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva and Georgi Strahilov Svilenski. On the basis of art. 14, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request that the decision be entered in the register of the National Assembly. [[(Voices: "Bravo, bravo!") (Applause from BSP to Bulgaria) (Applause from the hall.) Noise, excitement and lines.)]] We continue with today's agenda. Mrs. Angelova, you've had your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Please put to the vote a procedure that will take place within six days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u5	Thank you. Please vote on this procedure. Vote 156 MPs: 141, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: The Law on Modification and Compilation of the Law on Supporting EARTH PRODUCERS. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u6	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Assistance Act No 754-01-57, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs on 20 September 2017. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 4 October 2017, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Lozana Vasileva Deputy Minister, Donka Yordanova and Tanya Petrova experts in the Directorate of Rural Development. Also present were Svetlana Boyanova. advising Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, as well as representatives of NGOs and branch organizations. The bill was presented by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova, who explained that it is related to the synchronization of the Agricultural Assistance Act with the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act (ESUSIF) and the implementation of the investment measures of the Rural Development Programme (RDP) through the Integrated Management and Monitoring System of Funds of the European Structural and Investment Funds (ESUN). The bill proposes the production of compensatory measures on areas related to afforestation, agri-environment and climate, organic farming, Natura 2000, disadvantaged areas and animal welfare to be carried out through the Integrated Administration and Control System (IAC). The productions of investment measures and sub-measures will already be carried out through the ISAN system in accordance with the terms and conditions of LUSIF. With regard to these measures, an additional preliminary selection of the project proposals shall be introduced where the amount of the financial assistance requested for all project proposals submitted exceeds the budget for the respective period of admission. According to the ranking, the projects under which the aid applied for does not exceed by more than 30% the budget defined and only with additional financial resources will the following projects be considered will be considered. Such a preliminary stage has not been set up in LUSIFF. The evaluation and classification will be carried out by a committee by criteria and order set out in the application guidelines, which will be scheduled within three months. Upon completion of the preliminary selection, the administrative compliance and eligibility checks, the technical and financial assessment under the order of LUSIFF will be carried out. Objections to the ranking will also be examined by a committee. The terms and conditions for the payment of the grant and the reduction or refusal to grant the financial assistance for the measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, carried out by means of ISU and the conditions, checks and procedures for establishing artificially created conditions, should be governed by two new regulations of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The text regulating the terms and conditions by which farmers apply for support under direct payment schemes shall be precise. The transitional and final provisions regarding the measures under which the proceedings will be carried out through ISU provide that, pending the possibility of full technical integration, administrative checks, on-the-spot checks, authorisation of payments, reporting to the European Commission and subsequent monitoring will be carried out by the State Fund The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill. The Commission has received an opinion in support of the draft Law by Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev with concrete proposals to refine some of the texts. On his behalf Svetlana Boyanova noted that between first and second readings the texts will be further synchronized with the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to LUSIFF. In its opinion, the National Association of Municipalities also supports the Bill, making some proposals. In the subsequent discussion by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, they said that they would support the bill given the need for the proceedings to be conducted through the system of ISN, but noted that the main problem of projects under the Rural Development Programme is their ranking and lack of transparency in this procedure. In this respect, they consider that all project proposals received should be processed without prior selection. They also noted that some of the procedures scheduled were completely unnecessary, should not be subject to the Law and stated that they would make the relevant proposals between the first and second reading of the Bill. The DPS parliamentary group said they would support the Bill, noting that there are details in it that should not be signed in the law. The Patriot Front also supported the Bill, pointing out that the percentage of project proposals to be considered should not be explicitly recorded in the Law. In response, the Ministry explained that in order for there to be no doubt as to the stages through which the assessment of the projects is carried out and the examination of the objections, the preliminary selection procedure should be regulated in the Law. They noted that the proposed percentage for project consideration is, in their opinion, sufficient, but the possibility of other projects being considered under the available budget is still at stake. The Branch organisations unanimously supported the need to carry out pre-selection and indicated that the evaluation criteria are bet and approved by the Monitoring Committee, in which all stakeholders participate and there can be no doubt as to the transparency of the procedure. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 votes for the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, No 754-01-57, submitted by the National Representative Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs on 20 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Gechev. Will there be a motive for the bill? Mrs. Stoyanova will present the motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will present to your attention the reasons for the Law amending and supplementing the Law on support for farmers. The proposals for amendment and supplement of the Agricultural Support Act are aimed at achieving a clearer, precise and complementary regulatory regulation with regard to the individual processes of managing the funds under the Rural Development Programme in the period 2014 - 2020. The amendments and additions to the Agricultural Guides Support Act are mainly in several guidelines: In Chapter "General situations" art. is created. 9b which lays down specific situations for the Rural Development Programme. The text sets out that the production of compensation measures for area of the Programme relating to agri-environment, organic farming, Natura 2000, disadvantaged areas, afforestation and animal welfare will be carried out through the Integrated Administration and Control System. The operations under investment measures and sub-measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 will be carried out in the Information System for Management and Monitoring of Funds from the ESI Funds under the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act with the proposed proposals. The special aid law for farmers sets out another stage in carrying out checks on project proposals, which is not regulated in the European Structural and Investment Funds Fund Management Act............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The procedures under this stage are detailed in the Law and then checks are carried out according to the order of art. 29, para. 2 of the LUSIEF Administrative checks, technical and financial assessment, which shall be concluded by decision of the competent authority. A legal delegation is hereby established for the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to issue two new regulations: on the terms and conditions for the payment of the grant and on the reduction or refusal to grant financial assistance for the measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, which are carried out by means of ISU, and on the conditions, checks and procedures of establishment of artificially created conditions. For the measures of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, under which production will be carried out through the ISAN, it is regulated that the ISAC can be used as a system in which the State Fund of Agriculture and Agriculture (SPA) is to carry out administrative checks, on-the-spot checks, authorising payments and reporting to the European Commission and subsequent controls during the monitoring period of the proceedings until the possibility of full technical integration with the ISAN is ensured. The change in art. 33a, para. 2 is related to the need for the order to approve the final layer of the system of identification of agricultural parcels to be published in the Official Journal. The amendment of the provision of art. 41 of the Law is a result of a commitment to the European Commission (EC) and EU PILOT 8495/2016/AGRI Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Bachvarova to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u10	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, amendments are proposed to the Agricultural Aid Act, which are, firstly, very controversial, unfounded and drastic in terms of the management of the Programme. Instead of learning from the problems created so far in the management of European funds, including under the Rural Development Programme, we are setting a precedent in the management of European funds, because in the middle of the management of the Rural Development Programme, we are making changes that can lead to serious problems, especially in the constructive mechanisms for its implementation. As far as I know, the policy of changing the implementation of the Rural Development Programme since 2007 has been moving towards the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to delegate powers to the State Fund of Agriculture as the structure that not only manages the Programme but also implements all administrative procedures for its implementation. The changes implemented make revolutionary changes to the following guidelines: First, in practice, functions are being seized by the State Fund of Agriculture, which means that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will assess which projects will enter the classification for funding and which will not receive funding. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will assess whether the classification complaints are justified or not. The Ministry will issue refusals on projects on which there is no budget. It should be recalled that until now, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has never interfered with the operational work of the State Fund. What will be the effects of these proposals? First, focus on the implementation of the program in the Ministry's portfolio. Secondly, dual work, as the State Fund is the only paying agency, it makes a ranking of the projects, implements the regulations, but the overall activity, which is related to checking what has been done in the State Fund, will be duplicated within the framework of the Ministry. Third, engagement of additional staff. Now in the State Fund, about 300 people are engaged in contracting. The capacity of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is a Directorate with 50 people. In order to be able to adopt decisions relating to the performance of all control functions which are mandatory, this means that there must be duplication of staff in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry in order to be able to perform precisely this work. It is also important that the implementation of the Programme is seriously delayed, and in 2018, we must have certain indicators to make progress in implementing the Programme. If we have not fulfilled them, it means funds that we will return to the European Commission. What's the delay in the program? All these changes require mandatory notification to the European Commission. If they are adopted now, at least the admission of projects will be from three to six months, and the notification by the European Commission cannot be said exactly what frameworks and boundaries will take place. This means a really complete failure of the programme and the absorption of funds. There's gonna be another problem. At present, the Deputy Minister, who is also responsible for the accreditation of the procedures for work, will also have to make the classification, but must also approve the procedures. This is in serious contradiction with the regulation which determines that the accreditation structure must be independent of accreditation. Problems arise with the minister's appeal. Until now, in an appeal before the Minister of Agriculture, there has been a Directorate in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry responsible for managing the programme, as it was not directly related to the process of examining applications. Now it is not clear who will be the body before which the appeal will be made and whether there will be any possibility of administrative appeal at all. This will be a serious problem for the beneficiaries, because in practice we have absolutely no rules to appeal against what the beneficiaries believe should be addressed and there should be an adjustment. Signals of irregularities also have no idea how they will be carried out. So far, they are within the framework of the State Fund's Fraud Fight..................................................................................................................................................................... Apart from that, I would like to tell you that the preliminary ranking, which the State Fund of Agriculture, the Ministry has imposed in recent years, has been causing a lot of problems. We are categorically against the preliminary ranking, because a large part of the projects are not considered in any form at all. During the discussion in the Commission, it was stated that the number of projects was high and the administration could not cope at administrative level with the applications submitted. Very nice, however, if you refer to the other operational programmes,.................................................................................................... With us the preliminary ranking creates extremely much tension and there is no system in which to ensure objectivity of this ranking. Looking closely at the Bill, as I would like to stress that we had very little time for this Bill when we discussed the Commission, and we did not receive adequate answers from the representatives mostly of the Ministry of Agriculture, I was impressed by the following proposal of colleagues. If you can answer me: for what reason do you propose that three important elements of the decisions on how we apply the common agricultural policy 2014-2020 be dropped in the Law? First of all, we're dropping the subsidy ceiling. Why is the subsidy ceiling dropped? If you have decided from 2018 there will be no ceiling of the claims, say so. We had all decided that there was a ceiling of 300,000 euros, that is, large farms do not get the maximum amount of their support. Now you say: there will be no ceiling of subsidies, art. 43a of the Law is out. You are proposing to drop the reassignment payment? art. 43b. You also propose to drop the support of small farms. 43c. At the first moment when I read these proposals, I decided that this was certainly some kind of legal technique, because these proposals were adopted in 2015. Some kind of legal technique I don't understand. But it's still a law. Once these opportunities are dropped to conduct the direct payment system on the basis of notified European regulations, this means that they will not apply in 2018. For me, this is extremely disturbing. Finally, I would like to say that we will not support the Bill and our recommendation is that it, even if withdrawn from the importers, is to make an in-depth analysis of what this bill is aimed at, but the consequences, if it is adopted in this form and now, will be really very difficult on the implementation of the programme and the management of European funds in the field of agriculture. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u11	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, when considering in the Commission the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on support for farmers, we are looking at the common framework. We have not specified and have not set out in particular to consider these changes. Yes, there will really be a clarification of the order for applying to farmers, there will be additional synchronization of these proposals, additional agreement and approval of both the different industry associations and the Association of Municipalities. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9b al. 3, 4 and 5 were proposed by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. In this order of action and thinking, some will be taken out of the proposed text, others will be corrected and refined in order to be able to come to a bill of amendment that will be in the interests of all farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yankov, I am aware that between first and second readings are making drastic changes that have nothing to do with the submitted bill. This has also happened with bills of the Council of Ministers. You say: the common framework. The common framework is two things. First of all, plus is that the ISU system is also starting to work for the Rural Development Programme, but this is one sentence that can also be introduced into the Law, which we are currently looking at the twelve laws that are being dealt with, in terms of seeds and planting material to reduce the administrative burden. The main framework of this Law is the withdrawal of powers of the paying agency The lyrics are so written. I can get more into the details of this proposal. Why are we doing this? Since 2007, despite the difficulties that have been faced with the absorption of funds, such a step has never been taken with regard to the State Fund. There's no motive. You too were during the discussions. The only motive that came up during the discussions was that there were many projects -- 4000, for example, in 4.1, December. 650 are the objections. But here it means that you're doubling the contract. The same capacity must be available in the Ministry of Agriculture.. these objections should be addressed throughout their depths so that a decision can be made. It's a precedent, you know? In my opinion, the European Commission will take this proposal very seriously and whether the division of functions is respected. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u15	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not support this bill because we do not share its philosophy or its idea and direction. The only reason it is likely to be proposed is to fulfil the commitments we have to the European Commission. This bill is related to the synchronization of the Agricultural Aid Act with the European Structural Fund Management Act and the Rural Development Programme through an integrated system for managing and monitoring the funds from the ESI Funds. I would like to say to you that the proposed Bill describes such details and details as well as procedures that would rather bring it down to the level of regulation or regulations. Those changes that are proposed in this Bill could be difficult and slow. My main point is to use the ranking as a system for verifying the criteria, or, in other words, a preliminary selection of the project proposals will be made when the amount of financial assistance requested for all submitted project proposals exceeds the available budget set out in the notice for the opening of the respective admission. According to the proposed procedures, the evaluation should be carried out by experts in which projects should go randomly, but this is not specified. Thus, according to the importer, an impartial assessment of each project should be ensured, but the truth is that there is no transparency with regard to the preliminary ranking and from then on all problems for the justification of the need for why certain points are added or subtracted from a beneficiary. We are introducing preliminary selection, which will take place before the actual administrative procedure. On its basis, only projects for which there would be a budget will be sifted. Within one week after the end of the adoption of the measure and sub-measure, the Head of the State Fund shall appoint a committee to carry out preliminary project selection. Within one month of its appointment, the project proposals will have to be evaluated and ranked. A list to be published on the website of the relevant administration will indicate the exact number of points by criteria. The problem remains, however, how exactly will subjectiveism be avoided in the ranking of the projects. I am not talking about a lack of professionalism or competence in examiners, but rather that a model of corruption is being created, which is already disturbing. I would immediately like to give an example of the mayors who complained at the Ministry of Agriculture in 2016 on the occasion of the municipalities participating in the Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020. The scandal also reached the National Association of Municipalities. Deputy Minister Vassil Grudev had to give explanations and send an additional letter to the State Fund with an indication of exactly how to assess the projects and what the criteria are. This proposal offers us exactly the same, only this time dressed in legal form. The importer does not provide a clear answer to a very important question, and it is: why are procedures introduced that are dynamic in time. It is clear to us all that changes relating to established practice and the application of new norms will follow. According to the proposal made by the importer, in the event of a disagreement by the beneficiary about the correctness of the preliminary assessment of his project, he cannot appeal the step in question from the process of processing the aid application until the receipt of an official refusal of the project, which, however, is not provided for in the Law. It is only after receipt of the refusal that the beneficiary has the right to appeal the administrative decision in question. In the meantime, the project will not be allocated at all for processing, although it is possible that the beneficiary is correct. That is why I believe that the described situation is a prerequisite for implementing extremely bad practices by the administration responsible for the processing of projects. Another problem that will arise is that the procedures for investment measures and sub-measures will already be carried out through the system of European Structural and Investment Funds under the terms and conditions of the European and Structural Funds Fund Management Act. With regard to these measures, an additional selection of the draft proposals shall be introduced where the amount of the financial assistance requested for all project proposals submitted exceeds the budget for the respective period of admission. According to the ranking, the first consideration will be given to the projects on which the requested aid does not exceed more than 30% of a specific budget and only then will the following projects be considered in the case of additional financial resources. Such a preliminary stage is not regulated in the European Structural and Investment Funds Management Act. The evaluation and classification will be carried out by a committee by criteria and order set out in the application guidelines, which should be rewritten within three months. Upon completion of the preliminary selection, administrative compliance and eligibility checks, technical and financial assessment under the Management Act of the ESI Funds will be carried out. The objections to the ranking will also be addressed by the Commission. How will this happen if it is not governed by the relevant law? I have a concern that the subjective factor will interfere again. Therefore, our proposals to the importer are: to withdraw the bill, to correct the proposed norms and only then to re-submit it to the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! He will repeat what I have said in the Commission. Yes, very well, we will align the Rural Development Programme with the other operational programmes by uploading the Rural Area Programme and their projects into the ISU system (Information System for Management and Monitoring). In this way, we will fulfil the will of the directive and the regulation, but our remarks are purely practical. What's written in the law is hard to change after that. Our experience so far from two periods of application of the Rural Program shows that in the course of the procedure often it is necessary to refine texts, to refine technology. As it is written at the level of legislation, I believe that, on the condition that it will need to be corrected, this would become very difficult and would hinder the whole procedure. Our first remark on the texts so proposed is that these regulations are at the level of regulation, not the level of law, because of our purely practical experience from what has been applied so far, that when there is some adjustment to be made, some change is much easier to make at the level of regulation than at the level of law. By changing the Law, the measure will be ruined. We are strongly opposed to the change that occurs after certain texts in the part on direct payments are dropped. In the part of "Direct payments" 2013 we proposed as a major priority, as a main support group with particular attention to them, to be small farms, small farmers and disadvantaged sectors in Bulgarian agriculture such as fruits, vegetables, animals and tobacco. Those tests, which are proposed in the part of the Direct Payments and after the special measures which support these small farmers, are essentially changing the policy and attitude towards them. And since we are the authors of this idea, and we stood by this in Bulgaria and in the European Commission 2013, we absolutely cannot agree with this passage of texts. After that, the mechanism for announcing the results of the raced and the possibilities for appeal is not clearly written. Unlike other colleagues, I will not go into details, only mark the topics and texts on which we will make a proposal between first and second readings, but we think these fundamental points should change in order to be able to clearly describe how the ranking takes place and how the appeal of this ranking takes place. In the texts so proposed, we believe there is an open withdrawal of the Paying Agency's rights. The procedure for the appointment of the Evaluation Committee is not clearly defined. So in my first note, when I said these things weren't legal, that's what I meant. When this Commission is not very clearly written, it will be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture or the Head of the Paying Agency, which leads to a double interpretation. Believe me, we have a bitter experience of such interpretations, where each interpretation reflects directly on the beneficiaries. I frankly acknowledge these remarks, some of them are not mine, they belong to the National Association of Municipalities, and some of them belong to the team of the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for European funds, so that we between first and second reading will have a serious package of proposals with which to specify a lot of the texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. Any lines to Mr. Abase's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Aid Act. They voted 158 MPs: for 71, against 68, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause.]] Re-vote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u20	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I ask that we do a re-vote procedure, as many of our fellow Members have not been able to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u21	Thank you, dear Matsurev. I'm asking for a re-vote. They voted 163 MPs: 74 against 70, abstention 19. The proposal is not accepted, and the Law is not passed with this. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with the next item on today's agenda: Report on the implementation of the Law on the Export Cotrol of Products RELATED TO THE RECEIVED, AND OF TEMPLOYMENT AND TECHNOLOGY WITH DOUBLE USE IN 2016 BY THE INTERVENTUAL BOARD AND SECURITY COUNCIL OF DELIVERIES TO THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL. Who will read the Economic Policy Committee Report? I don't see Mr. Kanev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, No 702-00-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 26 October 2016, examined and discussed the Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Double-Use Products in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Defence Industry and Supply Security Council of the Council of Ministers No 702-00-43. The meeting was attended by: from the Council of Ministers "Anyu Angelov," Secretary of the Interdepartmental Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, and Elena Bakova, State Expert; from the Ministry of Economy, Svetlina Stefanov, Senior Expert at the Directorate of Internationally Controlled Trade and Security On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mr. Anyu Angelov. In 2016, the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply held nine meetings at which 124 applications were examined. 78 export and import licences were issued for defence-related products (PSO); three licenses were issued for the transport of SSOs between two third countries; 39 certificates for registration of brokerage activities with SSOs between two third countries; 63 certificates for registration and transfer of SSOs, 20 companies did not receive the requested and issued certificates. The Interdepartmental Council in 2016: - stopped the action of the issued to............................................................................................. Burgas Export and Import License, Certificate of Registration for Transfer to the CPC and Certificate of Registration for Brokerage Activity with the CPC; - terminated due to the liquidation of SAPL BG EOOD, gr. Sofia, export and import licence of the CPC and registration certificate for the transfer of the CPC; Stop, because of a written request from the "ATL Bulgaria" Ltd., Sofia Sofia, the operation of a three-year registration certificate for the transfer of CPCs and of a three-year registration certificate for brokerage activities with CPCs; - postpone, to submit additional information, making a decision on three applications; - examine and accept, for information, 18 applications for changing the circumstances under which export control documents have been issued that do not lead to amendments to them. The Interdepartmental Council notes an increase in the number of applicants for export control documents and the number of documents they hold. It is assessed as a positive fact that the increase in the number of applications for changing the circumstances under which licences were issued. It is necessary to periodically carry out compliance checks between the requested data when issuing licences and/or registration certificates and the circumstances recorded in the Commercial Register and the Registry Agency. People's representative Rumen Gechev raised the issue of control of the movement of the legally exported weapons and the amount of fees. After the discussion and the vote with results is closed: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes the National Assembly to take the following ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 70, para. 2 of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products and Technologies HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate on the report. I don't see any desire to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the decision read just now by Mr. Dinev, which I will allow myself to read again because I think not everyone was paying attention: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 70, para. 2 of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products and Technologies HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence-related Products and Dual-Use Products in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Defence Industry and Supply Security Board of the Council of Ministers. Please vote. Vote 119 MPs: 114, no objection, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have exhausted the agenda for plenary. At 11:00 am I expect you back in the parliamentary control room. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u24	Honourable Members, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 13 October to 19 October 2017: A question was received from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zheleva, Dora Yankova and Nadya Klisurska to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, concerning the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, vision and commitments for specific decisions and actions regarding the status of employees employed in the field and conducting the state social policy. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 27 October 2017. Asked by the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Dora Yankova to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, about the policy of the Ministry of Interior for fire safety and protection of the population. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 27 October 2017. Written answers to service: - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - from the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question from the National Representative Julian Papashimov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Manol Genov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov; - from the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova-Hristova; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Yavor Bojankov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the MPs Daniel Yordanov and Krasimir Yankov; - by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - by the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to two questions by the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Glavatchev, my procedure is with you as President of the National Assembly because of a question returned by me and Mrs. Nino addressed to Prime Minister Borisov. Please note the parliamentary control, as I think it is my opinion that the people's representatives are being censored and the possibility to ask questions on certain topics is limited, especially when it comes to Mr. Borisov. Look, we only asked one thing about the official position on 7 October, uploaded to the official website of the Council of Ministers, expressed by Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov: what is the attitude of Mr. Borisov and is she the official position of the Council of Ministers? Your employees return our question with the argument that the published position of Mr. Valeri Simeonov does not concern the activities of the government. I ask: Mr. Valeri Simeonov, what is he like in this government, when did he change his status? Again, this is about an official position posted on the official page of the Council of Ministers. It was quite normal for us, through the Bulgarian Parliament, to understand the opinion of Prime Minister Borisov on all claims in this position and the ultimatum, which was given to the Bulgarian media. Mr. Chairman, I think that you are not doing Prime Minister Borisov a good service by denying him the opportunity to come to this House and hence the Bulgarian citizens to understand his attitude on this issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u26	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. I have no intention of doing any services not only to the Prime Minister, not only to any minister, but when it comes to questions to the Minister or to the Prime Minister, or to the Deputy Prime Minister, read that it is required to express an opinion on politics, while you are asking why the position is uploaded to the Council of Ministers' website. When questions and questions are asked, they are asked in terms of policies. What you are asking, I do not think it is about politics. Here you are, Mr. Gyokov. A statement on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of Parliament! Today, after eight years of GERB management, Bulgaria is at the bottom of the European income statistics and is at the top of the list of the most unequal societies. Poverty and inequality are among the greatest threats our society faces. The trend is a deterioration of indicators and an increase in the risk to our national security from growing social disintegration and poverty. It is paradoxical, but it is also a fact that since Bulgaria is a member of the European Union, inequality has deepened and in terms of the distribution of income in society, we are moving in the opposite direction to developed European countries. Ten percent of the Bulgarians, which we can call rich, earn more than half of the Bulgarian people, which we cannot call otherwise but poor. What is the truth about Bulgaria? In June this year, the National Statistical Institute published official data on poverty and social inclusion for 2016. There it writes: There are 1 million incomes below the poverty line. 639 thousand. Bulgarian citizens - 23% of the population, and are increasing. With pensions below BGN 310. It's over 1 million. Three hundred thousand. pensioners - 60% of the total number of pensioners. The relative share of people at risk of poverty and social inclusion " 40%, nearly 3 million. Poor children up to 17 years of age are 384 thousand and 32%, and are increasing. 20% of children do not have a suitable place to study or write at home. 32% of children do not have the opportunity to buy a book except textbooks and tools. 36% of children cannot buy two pairs of shoes within the calendar year. 27% of children cannot afford a daily fruit or fresh vegetable. The share of persons living in severe material deprivation in 2016 was 34% of the population..................................................................................................... The trend is going up again. 56% of households can't even think about a week's vacation. 54% cannot meet with their own funds urgent repairs, replacement of damaged household technique or sudden illness. 39% limit the heating of their apartment due to lack of funds. 35% can't afford meat or fish three times a week. The share of the working poor in Bulgaria is 11.6% by 110 thousand. human beings more than 2015 A huge mass of Bulgarian citizens have incomes at the limit of physical survival. The saving of the drownings is the work of the drownings themselves, so you of GERB think about poverty and inequalities, but from a moral and political point of view these are outdated and deeply undemocratic views. This is not acceptable and certainly unproductive, for the economy and for the people. Against the backdrop of this unjoyful picture on Wednesday, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers with its decision, passed quietly, Borisov dramatically raised the salaries of all deputy ministers and the most trusted senior political officials, heads of political offices and yet unknown which others. The sharp and drastic benefit will lead to that they will already receive a monthly amount of about 3,600 BGN, or about 2000 BGN. More than right now. All of a sudden, £2,000. On top! How does that sound? To us from the parliamentary group, BSP for Bulgaria is as cynical as shameless and as impropriety, such as the robbery of folk money, collected from taxes, taxes and levies paid by the entire Bulgarian people to be fooded relatives, husbands, wives and children, lovers that even drivers of power.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u28	Mr. Gokov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u29	There is no other way to call it than cynicism, Madam Vice-President. You give money lightly because you don't take it out of your pocket, but from the budget of the people's money. And most of the people who will receive this money are not in such positions because they have some unique expertise or are effective, but because they are true; because these high positions are given to them as a reward for this faithfulness; because they have kissed a hand. Just to ask: how did Borisov think of the 2010 Decree, which limits the ministerial salaries and does not think to cancel Order No 180 of July 2016, which is why thousands of pensioners did not even receive the miserable increase of 2.4%?! Perhaps Borisov relies on the weak memory of his so-called bad material and hopes that no one will remember his populism from 7 years ago, when single, fanfare, drums and many praises froze the wages of the so-called second Echelon. He even banned them from boarding state-owned companies and if they did, they wouldn't do it for free. Now what's changed? Is the sudjuk not enough for everyone? Is there a rebellion against the sole authority that needs to be suppressed by increasing wages? And how much this waste is going to cost us is not clear, but it is clear that it will not be small. Borisov urged the business to raise wages and the business wants the resignation of the social minister because of the growth of income. Employers are dissatisfied with the projected increase in minimum insurance income and public wages. What cynicism! Increase the minimum insurance income by 3.9% for the following year, provided that this year there was no increase and jump of the minimum wage of 460 BGN. at 510, i.e. 50 BGN, so outraged the Bulgarian employers that somehow passed their ears the increase by 600 to 2000 BGN. of the faithful people of Borisov. The loyal, unheard of administrative pressure, threats and extortion win the election! The loyal ones who have teeth and claws to protect his power! Business dissatisfaction with the increase in minimum pensions for internship and age, which was not linked to the insurance contribution and violated basic principles of insurance. When we offered support from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, we did not meet support and this would lead to a 20% increase in all pensions and give little recognition for the contribution of pensioners to Bulgaria. An increase of 30 levs on average for the pensions of the Bulgarians cannot, it is outrageous, and for our people in power can increase by 2000 levs. A few days ago, Borisov said: "We must create the people's sense of justice. [[Replications from OP.]] The more we work in this direction, the better. [[GERB lines.]] Next is the logical question: is this justice in Borisovski, on GERB-adjiski for an increase in wages by 2000 BGN, for others with 50 BGN, and for thirds with 3 BGN. over pensions? [[Reply from GERB: The Thief cries out: "Hold the thief!."]] For all loyal guards of power with BGN 2000 over wages, now and immediately, and from next year for mothers with 40 BGN. More! For the unemployed with 35 leva. more for benefits, and for pensioners - 3.8% increase, average of 12 - 13 BGN, and from 1 July! Justice to the highest degree! We are not against raising incomes, we are even working and fighting for this, including ministers, and heads of political offices, because everyone has the right to receive a decent wage for their work. However, we are against the disproportionate increase in wages, but there should be justice, but true justice for all Bulgarians, not GERB-adzhiyski. "Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Colleagues, today we have guests from Blagoevgrad. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] There were also students from 134 schools in Sofia at the invitation of colleagues. We continue with today's parliamentary control. The first question is to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, who will answer a question from the National Representative Nikolai Ivanov Tsonkov regarding the use of forces and equipment from the composition of the 68th Brigade in a police operation. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In accordance with art. 9 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria the main task of the Armed Forces is to guarantee the sovereignty, security and independence of the country and to protect its territorial integrity. All activities to be carried out by the Armed Forces are governed by the Defence Act of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. There is no text in it that allows the use of the army to solve internal tasks. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria is indicated that the army can assist the security authorities in their fight against the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, illegal trafficking of arms and terrorism. In this regard, the case of a 44-year-old security guard on 1 September 2017 cannot be referred to any of the cases mentioned in this text. However, in violation of art. 178, para. 3 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which requires the orders given to the subordinates to commit offences, you have ordered the commander of the 68th Brigade to provide troops from the brigade together with high-profile equipment for participation in a police operation, regardless of the fact that the Ministry of Interior has both people and high-passing equipment and the area in which the intruder of the Law is detained does not require the use of one. In addition, in art. 140, para. 5 of the Military Service Statute of the Armed Forces requires that the military officer who received orders from a senior chief report on the execution of his direct superior. In this regard, I ask you: on what basis did you order servicemen and high-passing equipment from the composition of the 68th Brigade to participate in a police operation for the capture of an intruder of the Law and do the actions of the commander of the brigade to the requirements of the Military Service of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. For a response, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u33	Dear Madam President, dear Mr. Tsonkov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm surprised by that question, Mr. Tsonkov. On the one hand, I understand that as opposition your functions are to criticize everything and everyone, but one of your criticisms is that crime problems are difficult to solve. And in one particular case, when the Ministry of Defense with the available powers and capabilities has helped the Ministry of Interior to solve such a difficult case, you criticize me. I don't understand the logic?! I expected you to praise me, I expected a diploma from the BSP parliamentary group to say: "This is how it works. The institutions in Bulgaria must cooperate and capture the serious criminals. [[Relations from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u34	Later, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u35	Mr. Velkov is a man who is absolutely aware of the subject. I'm aware of his opinion. Mr. Tsonkov, this isn't about an intruder. It's about a murderer, a man who is absolutely cold-blooded, demonstrative, in the center of a medium-sized Bulgarian town, the Peshtera, is committing murder, 10 stabs with a knife in front of dozens of people. The murder was documented by at least six or seven people with modern phones. And at the moment when this person, who turns out not to be an ordinary killer who committed something out of jealousy, is very well hiding and managed to escape the police authorities, I received information as a deputy prime minister in charge of security from the Deputy Minister of Interior with a request for assistance with regard to information and data about this perpetrator of a crime, who is involved in murder, among other things, very successfully and professionally, as this is a person working in a security firm, knows very well and knows where the Ministry of Interior has placed the video surveillance, and escapes, including making false movements to mislead the authorities to receive assistance. From this point of view, I would like to clarify something that, here in this particular case, the participation of a military officer from the brigade,................................ is limited to carrying out intelligence, monitoring on the ground, gathering information, its analysis and provision to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. So this and these actions of the servicemen were only within the framework of an exercise, training to work out elements of the National Counterterrorism Plan adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 1 of 2016. These actions were ordered by my oral order on 2 September and followed by a written order, since 2 September was Saturday, I was not in Sofia, followed by a written order with which I confirmed the oral order. I would just like to stress to you that the Armed Forces can carry out tasks to assist the security authorities in the fight against terrorism. 57, para. 1, t. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act, including through joint exercises and trainings with the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. The information I received from the Deputy Minister of Interior is that the perpetrator of the murder, after professionally hiding himself and supposedly being armed, as he works in a security firm, is possible, hiding, subsequently, when pressed by the police, to commit another crime to abduct hostages, abduct a person and complicate the situation. So from this point of view, I think I did the right thing. Of course, you have the right to interpret whether this by the point, the comma, the paragraph is the most accurate. This is your right, but I declare it to you and I say it to everyone: in such cases, if it is necessary for the servicemen with the skills they have, with the knowledge they have, to assist the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, I will. Not because I am a deputy prime minister in charge of security, but because I believe that the institutions in Bulgaria, who are called to fight such phenomena, should cooperate. I am convinced that if I had not cooperated and something else had happened, now the question you are asking me would have been: Why did you not respond to the request of the Ministry of Interior and allow the killer to commit new crimes? And in that regard, you're going to tell me now in your line probably, I want to save you for terrorism. In the very definition of terrorism, which is written, it is said that: "The one who, with actions, arouses fear in society, is also part of the wording of terrorism. In this case, there are every reason to order the servicemen from a specialized brigade to assist the police authorities and I stress again, in the form of gathering information and providing it to the authorities of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Karakachanov. I gave you two more minutes because I think the subject is important and it needs to be clarified. Here you are, Mr. Tsonkov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I agree that the institutions should cooperate, but ultimately we live in a democratic state and the law is above all else. From this point of view, I cannot fully accept your response and the actions of the brigade, and I will tell you why. You know very well that when a planned exercise is carried out, it is pre-prepared.. there are objectives, plan, tasks, place and corresponding program under which it is conducted. I am interested in whether this plan and the program are recorded: "Observation and detection of a terrorist-criminal.................... because the planned training is also fixed as a date. I admire your actions, but it's good to keep the law. Obviously, we need to change some of the tasks and missions of the armed forces, and it might be nice for the Ministry of Defence to switch to the Ministry of Defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. For the coat, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u39	Madam President, Mr. Tsonkov! Your latest proposal for the Ministry of Defence to go to the Ministry of Defence is explained only by the fact that you, as a member of the Defence Committee, want us to raise the prestige of the army, but in the end, the Ministry of Interior is doing its job. In this case, we have had absolutely auxiliary activity to assist law enforcement. By the way, there was also a second part in your question regarding whether he was informed, whether the Statute was respected and whether the Chief of Defense was informed? You've quoted the Statute.................................................................................................. 140, para. 5. I would like to inform you that General Mateev subsequently notified General Botsev, the Chief of Defense, after which, by his letter of 13 September, the commander of the brigade sent all relevant documents for the training to his immediate superior. I use the occasion to thank the commander of the 68th Brigade "Special Forces" General Mateev, to thank the boys who, albeit in an activity which is not characteristic of them, fulfilled their duty and supported the authorities of the state. And here you are already right in one firm.. about the army being able to perform functions as well. I am not talking about police, I would never send the army to deal with demonstrations, protests and so on, but about strengthening the powers of the Ministry of Defence with regard to the protection of public order, I am not talking about criminal investigations and prosecutions, but about protecting public order, a topic that is up to date from the point of view of the situation in Europe itself, a topic that is becoming very up-to-date and from the point of view of our upcoming European Presidency and possible threats that may increase as a result. Here, the subject you are raising is absolutely resonant. The Minister of Interior and I have been commenting on this matter literally for a month. We've prepared some suggestions. At the moment they are agreed with the military leadership of the Ministry of Defence, and the idea is precisely to give the army security and additional functions. This, in my opinion, should be regulated in the Law and should be done after a decision of the Council of Ministers, so that there is no doubt whether one or another minister today I, tomorrow someone else, exceeds their powers. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. On behalf of a group, come in, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, we have heard the statement from our fellow Members on the left and we have not understood anything they wanted to say. At least I, honourable Members, did not find any sense in this declaration. What did you want to say, honourable Members, with this declaration? First, on the one hand, what the Council of Ministers is doing is increasing wages. It's a fact! Are you protesting this increase? We're increasing the salaries of $700 million next year will be paid to people who have the lowest wages, we're paying $300 million for teachers' salaries, about $600 million for educational infrastructure. Shall I continue? [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. About $400 million in health care. That's a fact, too. So don't say, dear colleagues, on the black white! This is unacceptable! There is no need to have such opposition here on this stage. At the moment, we have 2.5 billion more revenue in the country. The deficit in next year's budget is 1%, with 4% at your time. That's a fact too! On the second hand,.... 2.5 billion. Where did that money come from? This money is from the collected smuggling, which was 34% at your time, and currently it is about 7%. These are all things, dear colleagues that the people see. There is no need to throw such nonsense here to try to overwhelm the Bulgarian government and to lower the rating of parliament further. [[Heckling]] Yeah, it's a statement. Honourable Members, stop this opposition and with these ramblings of yours here, constantly from this tribune. Please! Let's look forward, let's increase these people's incomes. Do you doubt that we will not? We'll do it and move on! We will continue because next year we will have an opportunity for even more increases, for even more money that will be poured into the infrastructure of the state, not just for highways, as perhaps here you will apostrophy me for education, for medical institutions, for all spheres of our lives. Therefore, I ask you to stop resisting in this way. Let's look forward, let's look at the development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. [[Applause from GERB.]] Here you go, Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly! I'm taking procedure the way it is. Indeed, my request is that you observe the Rules and that when Members want the floor on behalf of Parliament, a group make a declaration rather than comment on the declaration of the BSP, they make a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Because we have now witnessed a comment on our declaration. Declaration, commenting on another declaration, is just nonsense. If you have anything to say to the Bulgarian voters, the Rules allow you to speak for 10 minutes. But 10 minutes to comment on our declaration, it probably impressed you, probably affected you, and we were probably right. So, Madam President, when there is a declaration, let it be a declaration to the Bulgarian voters and not to the MPs who made the declaration before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u44	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I think the declaration was to both of them. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kirilov? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u45	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to convince you in no way to listen to interpretations that some colleagues develop from this tribune that have nothing to do with the Rules. Please read the Rules of Procedure: the speech is 10 minutes on behalf of a group and there are absolutely no restrictions in the Rules on what is being commented and what is being said. This is a statement from a parliamentary group! As long as it's not on the agenda, it hasn't been commented on a item on the agenda. What do you want us not to have the right to an answer? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u46	Mr. Kirilov, to me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u47	Yes, Madam President. Do not allow such a situation in which any political group takes away the right to respond to another political group, and by the legal means with those established in the Rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise and lines.]] For this reason, I did not take Mr. Ivanov's word away and gave him on behalf of a parliamentary group to make a statement. We continue with the second question to the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov. It is a question from the MP Petar Vitanov and Kolyo Milev on the policy of the Ministry of Defence to preserve the archive of the Military Film Fund. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u49	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, ministers gentlemen, colleagues! I would like to draw your attention to the Military Film Fund first, because it represents an invaluable archive, and second, because it is and demonstrates the attitude of power towards the Bulgarian historical memory. First, a few words about the Fund itself. It is the second largest in Europe. It was established with a decree from Boris III in 1936. It produced teaching and documentaries from 1966 to 1992 and was shown in the cinemas of the army until 2008 in front of military servicemen with military-patriotic and educational value. The films at the Ministry Fund reflect the history of the Bulgarian army in painting and sound and qualify as a lasting intangible asset with cognitive, historical-educational, military-patriotic and artistic value. There, in this archive, was a man working. And all I do is draw a parallel with France in the biggest archive, there are 300 people working there. Three hundred people who are involved, also a structural part of their Ministry of Defense, with the preservation of their Fund. Currently no one is working in the Bulgarian Military Fund, as the contract of the last employee has been terminated since 1 September. The last thing the Fund was dealing with was transforming the cinematographers, as they were 26,000 titles of which are on film, on DVD, which is also the result of a deadlock, as the safest way to preserve the Fund is through the cinematographers. It has over 200 years of shelf life and if stored in a certain way, it also retains the authenticity of the images. This can no longer be done because January 2017 new cinema and video machines have also been handed over to scrap metal. The last person I told you was fired, meaning there's no one to do storage, dry cleaning, chemical moisturizing, things needed to maintain this fund. He's doomed to ruin. The last thing is not an inventory of the Fund and it creates prerequisites for abuse and literally stealing films that have huge, priceless value, especially for some external productions. My question, Minister, is: what measures does the Ministry of Defense take to end the policy of destruction against the Military Film Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u51	Dear Mr. Vitanov, dear General Milev, honourable colleagues! Sticking to the question I have been asked, you say so: in recent years the Ministry of Defence has purposefully conducted a policy of neglecting the problems of the Military Film Fund. Am I to understand that in recent years this includes the times when the defence ministers were your representatives? [[Heckling]] Thank you, let's get this straight, because you've been talking about the last few years. About what you're asking. Naturally, you said it in 1936 with the Decree of Tsar Boris III was created a cinema unit at the headquarters of the Bulgarian army. These specific structures of the Ministry of Defence have produced hundreds of study, documentaries and feature films, which are still stored in the Army Cinema Archives. In our archive were stored extremely valuable films filmed during the Balkan, First and Second World War. Almost all original film media were handed over to the State Cinema Archives back in 1952. Only copies of these films are kept at the National Military-History Museum and the Information Center of the Ministry of Defence today. The army cinema archive is the structure of the Information Center of the Ministry of Defence, and the warehouse base is located in a property in the management of the Ministry of Defence. There are 14 thousand audio and video tapes. In February 2014, a check also established the presence of several thousand boxes of film bands of unclear origin..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Essentially the question you're asking. The following measures have been taken to improve the storage conditions of the film archive: first, the roofs of the film bases, the electrical installation, the fire protection has been restored, external lighting and 24-hour video surveillance have been repaired. Second, to clarify the legal basis on which film media are stored in the Ministry of Defence's bases and to establish their content and technical fitness, an inventory is being carried out that is currently ongoing. After its completion, under the Public Archive Act, audiovisual works, feature and documentaries on which the Ministry of Defence does not have production rights will be submitted for storage at the National Filmshop. It's the law! The information centre stores documentaries, study films, movie reviews and other audiovisual works on which we have production rights. In May 2017, an inspection was carried out by the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Defence, who found that the Information Centre took the necessary care as a good owner for the preservation of material media, although this archive was not registered as its property. Finally, I would like to assure you that not only as a minister but also as a person of historical literacy, I also appreciate the importance of all this documentary and, above all, archive footage, but I do not think that the information that has been provided to you is most up-to-date. Maybe she's from the last employee who was released from work.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. For a line, Mr. Milev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u53	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, Dear Ministers! I thank you, Minister of Defense, for your concern with the Military Film Fund, but if the Ministry of Defense is free of all these films, video tapes, even disks, and surrender to other authorities without any commitment to their preservation and use, I believe that this is a run from our memory. As far as I'm concerned and we all know that a lot of machines that are unique, only these films can be screened, are given for scrap, some of them not even sold, some sold for 20,000. lv. My question: is there any possibility that any of these machines that are right to be restored to the Ministry of Defence and used in the future for these films that are not identified at the moment and the inventory turns out to be in fact unique, which is very important for what you as Minister are fighting for? We, as military people, like to know our history and observe the authentic actions that are sealed precisely on these films, and I believe that you will take adequate measures to put order into the Military Film Fund, especially with its personnel provision and also to create working conditions and to restore those machines that have been given perhaps short-sighted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. A hole, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u55	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Milev! I can assure you that in the time I am a minister, no machines have been sold. I seriously doubt if they can be used for anything other than museum exhibits, that is also valuable. I agree that they should be stored, not dealt or destroyed, or cut into scrap, as happened many years ago with MiG-23 fighters, much of the MiG-21 aircraft and so on. I agree here. However, there is something that I told you... if it is found that in these bands there are those that are not our property, we do not have copyrights, we are obliged by law to hand them over to the National Film Shop, it is also a state structure and this implies that they will not be lost. Naturally, in order for them to be enjoyed, I personally believe that the right thing is to allocate the necessary funds and to transfer all this documentary to modern media so that it can be used. Because the old cinema bands here are many people, and here is the Minister of Culture, can tell you that they are almost unusable and the probability of being destroyed when using them is very high. The fact that they are transferred to modern carriers is not a problem, it is not a problem for them to be able to enjoy. That we'll hand them over, we'll leave copies that we can use if we have to. On the subject of copyright, I do not agree to say that we will illegally use them as far as rights can be made to them. Be assured that we will do our best if such practices as you are talking about are the destruction of old machines, they are sort of a part of the past. That's not what you're doing right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to the third question to Minister Karakachanov of Nikolay Tsonkov on the actions taken to invade the Military Publishing House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defence, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, I know it's a very bad situation for the Military Publishing House. Soon there was also a question by General Konstantin Popov regarding commercial companies, but still such a company, especially with history over 100 years, must be preserved. I am interested in the state and future of the Military Publishing House. You know the building is valuable, and so is the fund itself, intellectual property. In this connection with signals that have arrived at me, I would like to ask you: is there, is there, is there, is such a thing envisaged for the service of the Military Publishing House at the Military-Repairing Factories, and if so, what imposes it, what will be the procedure? I'd like you to inform us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, you're right. There were not one or two questions. One question was still the spring session about the state of economic companies, and Gen. Popov asked such a question at the beginning of the autumn session. In the answers to these questions, I put out the state of the companies, stressing that the state of the Military Publishing House is the most critical. I would like to recall some figures about how the debts increased over the years: 2010 the debts of the Military Publishing Office. lv.; 2011 == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man @elder_man lv.; 2012 '212 thousand. lv.; 2013 '331 thousand. lv.; 2014 519 thousand. lv.; 2015 681 thousand. lv.; 2016 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Three thousand. lv. By the end of September this year, the debt amounted to 1 million. 174,000. lv. The lack of sufficient financial resources, the existence of significant obligations to suppliers, personnel and public liabilities, as well as the reduced amount of equity, can lead the Military Publishing Company. In this case, there is a risk that the assets of the Military Publishing Company will be exported to a public sale in order to satisfy the creditors of the company. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u60	Undervalued. Substitute Minister-Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov: Undervalued at 5 million lv. In the case of a million and nearly 200 thousand leva obligations, the danger of hitting the property of the Military Publishing House, which, by the way, is an architectural monument with exceptional value for the architecture of Sofia and Bulgaria, and for the Ministry of Defence, this should not be allowed. After discussing the possible options for the future of the Military Publishing House, given its difficult financial situation and the significant amount of its duties, a decision was made on its transformation by means of an injection into "Terem" EAD. "Terem" EAD closed 2016 with a positive financial result and there is available funds on the payment accounts and a cash register of 6 million 200 and thousands of leva. In accordance with art. 262, p. 1 of the Commercial Law in the event of conversion of a commercial company by infusion, the entire property of the commercial company is transferred to an existing company................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The transformation company shall be terminated without liquidation. In that case, there is no option of liquidation and the scheme that I have notified you of. From the date of the entry of the Ministry of Military Publishing in the Commercial Register at the Institute of Commerce, the Military Publishing House will end without liquidation and the company will become its universal Publisher, with all assets and liabilities according to their book value in the outstanding balance, will be transferred to "Terem". In this way, the goal is to save precisely this building. "Terem" has financial opportunities to cover both debts to creditors and to employees and thus avoid liquidation of the Military Publishing House. That's the logic of what's being done.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your sincere response and that you are thinking about how to be saved. I am glad that you have found the right solution, and thank you for the information you have presented to us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u64	Madam President, Mr. Tsonkov, honourable colleagues! I missed, since time is up, to tell you that other options have been considered. One is to move on to the publishing structure of the Military Academy, which seemed more logical from the point of view of an academic structure that deals with publishing activity. Turns out this is not going to happen legally, so we resorted to this other option. Thank you. Good work, everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We are continuing with a question to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy. The question is from the MP Dora Ilieva Yankova about the future of the Davidkov Rudnik field. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u66	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Petkova, this is the second time I have asked the question about the future of Davidov's minefield. It is primarily related to the desire of Rhodopeans for livelihood, for work and for the preservation of a municipality. In a previous question two years ago, you replied to me that indeed, yes, in the Davidkov minefield according to the National Balance, the report that is being given to you at the Ministry has a resource and makes sense. There was then some willing economic entity who would start doing geological research, then, naturally, start mining and start working. Two years later, and apparently the procedure has been terminated, or any other questions or problems have happened. But you also said then, and people know that in previous times a state resource has been used in order to be able to explore the field in the "Crushevo dere", in the "Bachteritsa", in the "Lissice", in the "Sternitsa" as part of the Davidkov Rudic field. I was at Davidkovo's festival and it was very nice when the mayor invited more than 70 miners, some engineers, others worked to reward them for revealing this resource. And they are extremely grateful that they have pensions now as miners. These elderly people had tears dripping and saying, "We wanted the country to come closer to us. This resource to be found and to have a livelihood, and to preserve a Bulgarian municipality. My question is: what will the Ministry do to reveal the potential of David's minefield?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. For a response.. the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u68	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, as you have already mentioned, the Davidkov Rudh field has been the subject of several parliamentary written questions within which I have been able to inform you on this subject. During the past century, a significant number of deposits of polymetals have been found in the central-Rodope region of lead-zinc copper ores as a result of the state budget. In some of these fields and currently develop mining deposits of contact-metasomatic and sting type and extract lead-zinc ores. Specifically, in the Davidkov minefield, which is part of the Central-Rodope mine area, there is currently no exploitation of mining minerals. According to data from the National Balance of Stocks and Resources of Underground Treasures of the country in the fields of Davidov's Rude Field, resources of several million tonnes of lead-zinc ores are recorded. However, it should be borne in mind that the geological information available to the Ministry of Energy shows that further geological studies are needed in order to finalise an assessment of the prospects of this area. As I have already had the opportunity to inform you, in 2013 and 2015, in relation to applications submitted by a Bulgarian company, the Ministry of Energy conducted tender procedures for granting permission to search and study metal minerals in an area situated within the borders of the Davidov Rudy field. The area applied for included one of the most promising lead-zinc fields: "Crushevo dere", "Bachteritsa", "Lisiche", "Sternitsa" and other areas of the area. The aforementioned company as the sole candidate has won the tender and was subsequently designated as the holder of a search and survey permit in the area. Due to the failure to comply with the provisions of the proposed search and study contract, non-payment within the prescribed period of the bid, the company lost its rights to the search and investigation authorisation granted and the contract in practice did not enter into force. Following an application by the same company in 2016, the Ministry of Energy conducted again a tender procedure for granting permission for the search and exploration of metal minerals in an area of Kiselka. The area is part of the Davidkov minefield and includes the polymetal fields listed above. In practice, the tender procedure did not take place because no application was made by the applicant for tender within the deadlines announced. In this regard, I would like to inform you that yesterday, October 19th, a request has been re-ported to the Ministry by the same company for opening a search and survey authorisation procedure in this same area. What the Ministry of Energy, its specialized administration will do in the fastest possible way we will start this procedure again. I hope that it will indeed be successful so that we can also work towards the development of the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u69	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, good news. I ask you to monitor personally and strain the administration dealing with these issues so that they can actually begin the geological research activities and, for God's sake, then find either the same company or partner, a solid one, to develop the Davidkov minefield. This will be for the municipality of Banite and for neighbouring municipalities employment, income, perspective, revival of a Rhodope municipality. I think that you as Bulgarian minister, the government, will engage in the Rhodope region and create conditions for the resource that is ours to the Bulgarian citizens, which you currently as minister represent and keep, to be for the well-being of the people, for the holding and the economy, will make sure that the Davidkov minefield actually creates a livelihood in the municipality of Banite. I expect this to happen, and surely at one next stage again I will ask you how the procedure is going and how things are going for Davidkovo, and it is actually for part of the Rhodopes, for part of the municipalities around the Banite? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Yankova, I am using this case to assure you that I will personally undertake the follow-up of the entire process relating to the implementation of the procedure to re-start a search and survey contest in this area. I am always available at all times to give information to both you and the residents of this extremely important region how the procedure is going. I would very much like it to end successfully and this requested investor interest is indeed confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u73	Thank you. We should thank the Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with a question to the Minister of Youth and Sports Mr. Krasen Kralev. The issue is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Dimitar Georgiev about the major renovation of the stadium "Plovdiv" in the city of Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u74	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, Mr. Kralev, honourable colleagues! Park "Ottich and culture" in the town of Plovdiv has several sports sites of the highest class: comb canal, athletic stadium, tennis courts complex and several sports courts. A special place between them occupies the stadium of Plovdiv, which has a primary purpose of football and athletics. This stadium has hosted numerous significant international football matches and a world championship in athletics. The stadium is currently used limited, mainly for training activities and amateur sports competitions. The reason for this is the found need for major repairs through which the stadium will acquire the criteria of a sports facility for international competitions. Last but not least, I would like to point out that currently there is no football stadium in Plovdiv that meets the current requirements for football meetings. About ten years ago, the state transferred the property of Plovdiv Municipality with the promise of the municipality that it would handle the necessary rehabilitation of the stadium. That, unfortunately, didn't happen. The necessary funds, according to data from different funds, are between BGN 20 and 60 million. We would like to stress that Plovdiv Stadium is the football stadium in the country with the largest capacity of over 60 thousand people. Mr. Minister, don't you think that the sports complex, based in Plovdiv, based in Plovdiv, should acquire the status of a national sports base. In order to acquire the sports complex it is necessary to perform a major renovation of the Stadium "Plovdiv" in accordance with the modern requirements for sports competitions. Do you believe that the Ministry of Youth and Sports could assist in the renovation of Plovdiv Stadium or provide the necessary funds? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u75	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For a response the Minister of Youth and Sports, Mr. Krasen Kralev. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u76	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yordanov and Mr. Georgiev! The policy of bringing sports sites and facilities into line with modern and international standards is a priority of the government and the Ministry of Youth and Sports for the period 2017 - 2020. The reconstruction of the stadiums started as early as 2015 with the renovation of the National Stadium "Vasil Levski" worth one million and three hundred thousand leva. Modernization and reconstruction of a total of five million and 100 thousand leva was carried out at the stadiums in the following cities: Gorna Oryahovitsa, Ruse, Varna, Yambol, Haskovo, Montana and Veliko Tarnovo. We encourage the use of new modern methods for managing sports infrastructure, for example with the help of public-private partnership, as is the case with the city stadium in Varna. By Decision 919 of 15 December 2011 of the Council of Ministers, Plovdiv Stadium was transformed into private state property and according to the wishes of Plovdiv Municipality the right of ownership of the stadium was transferred to Plovdiv Municipality, which falls within the circle of entities applying under Decree No 2 of 8 May 2014 for financial support for construction and repair of sports facilities and facilities to the Ministry of Youth and Sports. Until now, there has been no request from the Municipality of Plovdiv for funding, as well as for the entry of the site in the register of sports sites at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. In order for a sports complex to be able to acquire the status of a national sports base in the city of Plovdiv, it is necessary to meet the requirements of art. 47a of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and to be registered in the Register of Sports Sites at the Ministry of Youth and Sports. To conclude, I would like to say that at every opportunity the Ministry supports municipal rehabilitation initiatives, modernization of sports infrastructure, in order to provide more opportunities for various competitions of national and international nature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kralev, I understand that you do not object to starting a procedure that will legally reach the point that the Ministry of Youth and Sports will discuss the possibility of transforming the stadium....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u79	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? I won't. Let's thank the Minister of Youth and Sports. The second issue has been transformed in writing by Mrs. Miglena Alexandrova on measures to deal with the obesity of children. Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're going with questions to the Minister of Health. Nikolai Petrov. The issue is from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov on a proposal from the Ministry of Health to conduct treatment with innovative medicinal products to be provided free of charge by companies producing products. Here you go, Professor. Mikhaylov, develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u80	Honourable Chairman, Honorable Professor. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen! The priorities of the Ministry of Health presented in August also highlighted the possibility of access of Bulgarian citizens to innovative medicines for the treatment of various diseases in clinical medicine to be funded by the producer companies who present these molecules on the Bulgarian market. The subject is extremely delicate, it concerns not a small number of Bulgarian citizens, given that we are in a state of really very serious change in the possibilities of clinical medicine at the beginning of the 21st century, an opportunity that gives perspective for the treatment of a very large number of chronic diseases, which only ten years ago were in the list of incurablesables. This creates a very great expectation for Bulgarian citizens to actually be able to obtain access to treatment under the great financial capacity of these medical remedies. I therefore take the liberty of asking your opinion: what is the vision of the Ministry to provide access for Bulgarian citizens to these innovative means? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u81	Thank you, dear Professor. Mikhailov. For an answer Prof. Petrov, Minister of Health. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u82	Dear Madam President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mikhailov! In the last decade, there has been violent development in the pharmaceutical sector by developing an increasing number of medicinal innovative products. Regardless of these results, the authorisation to place them on the market is too long a process that may sometimes prove fatal in terms of patients with severe diseases. Until recently, clinical trials were the only way to access innovative drugs in development, but it is not completely open because not every patient meets the criteria for inclusion in the clinical trial... of some their condition is life-threatening and so on. The introduction of compassionate use provides an alternative option for the treatment of such patients. In 2004, the European Union established Regulation 726 and, more precisely, in art. It regulates the treatment of a group of patients suffering from a chronic or severe disability or disease considered life-threatening and cannot be treated with an authorised medicinal product. That Regulation allows the use of a product for which an application for authorisation has been submitted or is in the course of a clinical trial. The European Medicines Agency provides recommendations for compassionate use through the Committee on Medicinal Products which aim to standardise palliative use programmes across the European Union. The Agency shall publish a list of medicinal products as well as their uses. In this register, each Party may take the relevant user manuals. The Agency's recommendations, I would like to emphasise, complement national legislation and not replace it. Member States shall develop at national level regulatory frameworks. After 2004, when this Regulation comes out, the countries of France and Italy immediately introduced it for their patients, Germany introduced it in 2010. Our country is one of the few that has not yet regulated this approach in its national legislation. In this regard, the Ministry of Health developed a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products and Human Medicine, which was published on 10 August 2017. One of the main changes laid down in the Law is the creation of conditions and order for implementing art. 83 of the European Regulation. The Minister's regulation provides for the conditions and procedures for carrying out this treatment to be regulated. The judgment is entirely in the hands of medical professionals. These medicinal products will be provided by pharmaceutical companies free of charge. It should be noted that compassionate use refers to products that are in an advanced phase of clinical trials or have completed those that are expected to have a positive therapeutic result for the patients concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u83	Thank you, dear Minister. The line is prof. Mihailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u84	Thank you, Madam President. It wasn't a coincidence that I was referring to this thesis, my dear Professor. Petrov, since the issue is indeed very delicate. This is not only about, on the one hand, medicines that are in an advanced phase of clinical study, but it is also about patients who are in an advanced phase of disease and where the possibilities of standard treatment even of the country's standardized, so-called alternative forms of treatment are exhausted. It is well known that pharmaceutical companies use the so-called compassionate research as a stepping stone to reimbursing these molecules within the respective national framework. I think it's good to hear here what the Ministry's vision is, because in recent years we have witnessed two alarming phenomena, I would say, in the policy of reimbursing. On the one hand, the sudden introduction of molecules that have proven their clinical effectiveness, but which, by my modest assessment of a clinician, are not within the reach of the Bulgarian health system for reimbursing. On the other hand, the dropping of non-innovative molecules that go to Ordinance 10.. you know what I mean, not to specify to colleagues, and burden the budget of the healthcare institution concerned with it, as it is forced to buy these funds in order to meet the needs laid down as basic repertoires in the relevant schemes. It is very important for us to understand what is the policy, the vision of the principle how exactly it will proceed and how will the regulation that will be issued be implemented in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u85	Thank you, dear Professor. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u86	Thank you, Professor. Mihailov for this supplementary but extremely important issue. It is important because we really need to have clear parameters and not mix the notions of sympathetic use with the relevant rules and the introduction of new molecules for reimbursing from the Casa. I hope these concerns of yours, and I hope that they will receive their decision in the proposals that we have deposited in the Law on the Budget of the Casa, which were discussed, have a consensus with the Medical Union, the Association of University Hospitals, the Regional Hospitals, the private hospitals. That is, we will do whatever it takes not to get what you are talking about, that is, through the path of compassionate use to travel an extremely fast path to reimbursing. I suggest and that is our intention not to mix the two things. One is the theme of new molecules and the other is the theme of compassionate use and we should not mix them. I think so.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u87	Thank you, dear Minister. Thank you for the participation of the Minister of Health Prof. Nikolai Petrov in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. The first question is from the MP Boris Yachev on the activity of a bio-central center in the village of Trud, the municipality of Maritsa, Plovdiv. Here you go, Mr. Yachev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, in March 2015 an installation for the production of electricity from biological waste was put into operation in the land of the village of Trud, Plovdiv district. After the beginning of the work of the biocentrals, both the inhabitants of the village and the residents of the region have issued numerous signals and complaints due to violations of environmental standards and doubts about pollution of the settlements. There have been numerous public actions, demonstrations, including blocking of road arteries from those living in the region, requesting that serious control be imposed on the activities of the biocentral. Under the pressure of the people, the municipality of Maritsa has commissioned a survey of soil pollution in the land of the village of Trud. The soil tests were carried out by Agricultural University of Plovdiv, and the test report found a high content of zinc, copper, as well as the presence of soil exploitations that are dangerous to both the population and animals - sheep, cows, bees and so on. According to the people of the Initiative Committee, these factors are an alarming basis for risk to human health and environmental pollution due to the activities of the biocentral. Those living in the region and the Initiative Committee have deposited numerous signals and complaints with the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW), the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Health have carried out checks and actions on these signals, here I will add, as well as meetings within the parliamentary committees and in the departments themselves. Personally, I do not know how the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food has reacted so far. In this regard, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is as follows: has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry carried out an inspection of the arable land and the finished agricultural production in the region for pollution due to the biocentral activity? If there have been checks and studies, what are the results and what measures have been taken?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. For a response the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u90	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yachev, on 7 July this year at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, at the request of the Initiative Committee from the village of Trud, a meeting was held with experts of the Ministry. At the meeting are discussed the negatives that the village brings from the established plant for the production of electricity from renewable sources, through indirect use of biomass with combined cycle with electric power 1487 kilowatts. On 17 July, the Ministry of Agriculture received a letter from the same Initiative Committee on the activities of the Central. The next day, according to my order, which is in connection with the meeting from before, the Commission in a composition of experts of the Ministry, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency (BABC), inspectors of the Regional Food Safety Directorate carried out an inspection of the enterprise. An expert on ecology and environmental protection and a specialist on construction and construction from the municipality of Maritsa also participated in the inspection. In the Central, the Commission has been thoroughly acquainted with the circumstances of the process cycle for processing plant biomass and manure in biogas and compost production. During the verification documents necessary for the registration of the site are provided as required by art. 229 of the Animal Health Act, namely: permission to use from 2015 of the DNCC and Decision of 2015 of the RIEW city of Plovdiv for carrying out waste treatment activities. The Centre has been found to meet the requirements laid down in the applicable European national legislation on the processing and storage of animal by-products. Following the verification and recommendations given by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, to comply with the provisions of art. 229 of the Law on Veterinary Practice, the Central Office has submitted an application for registration in BABBH. The Ministry of Agriculture shall be a competent authority to comply with the requirements for handling and processing animal by-products and derived products thereof. In the Institute of Soiling, Agrotechnology and Plant Protection in the last five years there have been no samples, vegetation, food and water from the land in the village of Trud for chemical, agri-environment and environmental analyses. There is no evidence of radioactive soil status in the area of the village of Trud in the Radioecological and Radioisotope Research Reference Laboratory. The soil and air pollution is not from the competence of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, but of the competent authorities under the Law on Environmental Protection, the Law on Soils, the Waste Management Act and so on, in this case the colleagues from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In view of the complaints and signals lodged by the Initiative Committee and the residents living in the area in the village of Trud regarding the activities of the Central, as you know, on 18 October 2017, a meeting took place at the level of ministers and deputy ministers from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Environment and Water and National Representatives. This meeting discussed the problems with the functioning of the plants in the town of Nova Zagora and in the village of Trud. A decision has been made to conduct a joint inspection to be carried out by experts of the three ministries in the coming days. On the basis of the findings of this verification, a decision will be taken on follow-up actions and measures by the ministries, as well as proposals for legislative initiatives. As far as I am informed, the next meeting will be held in the nearest time in the National Assembly. Directly to the answer: no samples have been taken on our part. It is the inspection that I mentioned to you, but within the framework of the discussion that will be held here, if we have to do similar samples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u91	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yachev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u92	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for the information, because your Ministry has, in fact, somehow, stayed away from this public debate, which has been held over the last few months around the activities of the Central, the public reaction, the public discontent, the meetings of the Initiative Committee. As I can see from the answer, you have actually done what is in your competence as checks, as analyses and as recommendations, but it simply has not become public knowledge. Thank you for having, in the framework of today's parliamentary control, the opportunity to release it as information and the people of Trud to hear it. I too, with interest, and the people of the region, and the local authorities, expect the result of this complex inspection, which, as far as I know, will take place within the next 10 days. I would be extremely grateful if it were possible within the Committees, not only the Committee on Agriculture, but also within the Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Water, to get acquainted with the part of the results that concerns the activities of your Ministry, because I say again: MOEW and Ministry of Health as if they were a little more active publicly. I'm just doing it as a finding. I'm satisfied with the answer. Thank you. And we will expect with interest, the next development of No one wants to create a problem for the biocentrals as a modern way of producing energy, but we are all about respecting the constraints, environmental norms, all those rules that will make these biocentrals not air pollutants and aggregates that poison people's lives, but something that is positive, and people will accept it willingly. Because as far as I'm concerned, over 360 are the biocentrals that work in the municipalities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Yachev. Will there be a hole, Minister? I won't. We move on to the next question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova on measures to limit the population of predators. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u94	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Porozhanov, in recent years there has been a drastic increase in predators in our country's territory and their raids in our country, not only farmers, but the owners of large herds. Predators don't worry about going into villages and attacking domestic animals. Most of them suffer older people in the more deserted small mountain villages. Just a few months ago, three farms in the municipality of Gabrovo suffered from jackal raids. Often jackals go directly into the barns and steal animals. Packs also cause serious damage to larger farms on the territory of the country. The increase in the population of predators is also worrying for sheep, because this automatically leads to a reduction in useful game. The most suitable conditions and prerequisites for shooting predators are during the active season. These are the months of October, November and December. In the other winter months organized predator raids are hardly carried out. The only legal option remains the shooting in pre-licensed individual permits. The incentives that are now given for a killed predator in the hunting parties are almost symbolic. 10-15 BGN. In many places, they don't pay. This is not an incentive for commitment and efficiency. Even in some associations, due to financial shortages, these amounts are not given and they barely shoot harmful game. In this regard, I ask you: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest take to limit the population of harmful game?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u95	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, measures not to increase, but to limit? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u97	Yeah, for containment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u98	Yeah, okay. In accordance with the requirements of art. 44, para. 4 of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Predator Game is permitted to hunt individually, grouply and during the hunting of other game species. Or this means that all regulated hunting methods and methods are permitted in order to regulate predator stocks to the minimum, such as wolf, jackal, fox, wandering dogs and cats, can be hunted individually throughout the year and on all days of the week. The provisions of the Rules of Implementation of the Law allow each hunting group of 500 hectares to be determined by three hunters to hunt all year round for predators with hunting permits valid for one calendar month. Hunting associations, according to the numerical composition, implement an annual plan for the shooting of predators, which shall be validated by the Executive Director of the Forest Executive Agency under conditions and in order laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. The law also now allows the Minister of Agriculture and Food, with orders, to determine how to hunt, including the formation of hicks, in the case of an overpopulated population of predators. This has not been applied at the moment due to the fact that hunters do not comply with the intended plan for the use of predators. It is apparent from the Internet reference made in the 2016 Forest Executive Agency's based information system that the intended use of predators is not implemented by hunters. Just a few readings. The execution rate for wolves is about 25%, for jackals is 71%, with nearly 30 thousand jackals being shot from plan? 41, for foxes of 34 were shot nearly 19 and a half or 55%. Hunters should not be justified by the lack of financial incentives for shot predators, as hunting is a sport and such incentives are not for other game species, given that wild boar in some areas is causing more damage to game and to farmers than predators. The lack of a legal requirement for the holding of predators is also not an obstacle to regulating their numbers, as the authorised group predator hunt is lasting from 1 October to the second Sunday of January. In addition, by letter of 27 September this year, the Forest Executive Agency was given instructions to the holdings and legal entities that manage the game in the game areas, to the Union of Hunters and Fishermen in the Republic of Bulgaria, to the Bulgarian hunting and fishing union and not to the member hunting associations to take action in order to increase the shooting of predators. The same applies for the purpose of carrying out effective monitoring of the In conclusion, it should be noted that under the provisions of the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, the protection and protection of game in hunting and forestry areas is carried out by game managers who are obliged to regulate the number of predators, wild and wandering dogs. There were, of course, some pretty serious incentives. Including, you know, up to five cc's of wood on a shot wolf and so on. These incentives are calculated in millions of pounds because there are no free woodwoods, as they say. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] At the moment, the Ministry does not have such an incentive resource to be able to campaign to finance similar shelling of predators. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u99	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u100	Mrs. Chairman! Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive and serious response. I also hope that the hunting groups who have listened to this question and your answer will take this problem seriously, because indeed in small towns and farm owners this is a serious problem. I hope in the future the Ministry of Agriculture has a financial resource to stimulate the shooting of harmful game and this is one of the cases that will be resolved in the future. People who watch animals don't think about jackal raids. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u101	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, for the coat? You won't use it. We move on to the next issue by the National Representative Georgi Turnovalyski, concerning the exercise of control over the activities of the establishments in the settlements. Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u102	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! At the reception in the municipality of Brezovo, I was referred to an existing problem with the exercise of control by the competent authorities over establishments located in the settlements. In the present case, there are more than 47 animals kept in the city of Brezovo in an establishment of heading 4160-00-60 registered on the basis of an application for a change of ownership of an establishment with a contract for its transfer. Such a numerous holding poisons the air daily with extremely heavy and unpleasant odors creates a danger of spreading disease. At the same time, it is not subject to control by the local authorities, but by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, Plovdiv. Despite numerous complaints, there is no response. The letters shall refer to art. 137 of the Veterinary Activity Act, according to which when moving a registered establishment he does not need coordination with the mayor of the locality. This gap in the requirements between the existing legislation concerning the registration of establishments in settlements and the regulation adopted by the Municipal Council.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The result is also the lack of control over registered and subsequently moved establishments. Dear Minister, my question to you is: have checks been carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency at this establishment? What are the findings, the measures imposed by them? How will the control issue be resolved to comply with the requirements of the Law on registered and subsequently moved establishments? Do you foresee a change in the regulations to ensure this control? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u103	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u104	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Turnovalyski, your question concerns a particular establishment in the town of Brezovo. The owner of this site on 18 May 2016 has submitted an application to the Regional Food Safety Directorate in Plovdiv with a request to change the property of the site. A declaration and a contract for the transfer of the establishment together with the animals to the competent authority shall be made available to the competent authority. The new owner's data are immediately reflected in the integrated information system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The location of the establishment has not been altered. It's only about a change of ownership. It is important to note that the establishment fits into the information system with GPS coordinates and individual number. When changing its location, the old number is terminated and issued a new one, with new GPS coordinates. The object is not registered according to the requirements of art. 137 of the Animal Health Act. This means that the same at present does not meet the criteria laid down in Regulation No 14 on veterinary requirements in establishments. On the basis of the requirements of art. 51 of the Law, all animals are subject to official identification, and the establishments are subject to registration in the Agency as they are of particular importance for the protection of animal and human health. For the establishment to comply with the requirements laid down in the legislation, the Regional Food Safety Directorate has taken the necessary measures and actions. During this month, the new owner has been given a prescription which has a period of one month to implement. Mr. Turnovalysky, I don't rule out the prescription and check to be connected to your signal. Regulation No 7 of the Ministry of Health, concerning hygiene requirements for the health protection of the urban environment, was repealed in relation to the livestock farming in the settlements in May 2011. It established the location of the establishments and the volume of livestock activity in parcels in the residential areas of the settlements, as well as the powers which the local authorities had. Following the withdrawal of the Ordinance, the issue concerning the farming of agricultural animals within the locality is fully delegated to the authority of the local administrative authority. The same, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration, is ordered by a regulation setting out restrictions on number of animals, places for their removal and so on. At present, the application for registration of an establishment according to a model approved by an order of 20 March 2017 of the Executive Director of the Food Agency shall require a copy of the opinion of the municipality on the eligible species and number of animals for cultivation in which the competent authority should comply with the registration of the establishments and take into account the provisions of the local administration. As far as I have been further informed, there is, perhaps, a little bit and bit element in this whole object, as it, as well as the previous issue is related to tension between the residents in the settlement, because there are smells around it, a discomfort for the neighbors, so let's see if the prescriptions and actions that the Food Agency will take will be fulfilled. I'll keep an eye on this trial. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u105	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Turnover, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u106	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but there seems to be some discrepancy between what the local authorities say and the acts of infringement that have been revoked by the court regarding their competences. You say there are prescriptions that are possibly on my signal. Yes, before I asked you the question, I spoke with the Director of the Food Agency in Plovdiv. He said that measures would be taken, but nothing has been done. The subject is standing. It's not a domestic element, because it's more than 40 animals that are in the population. The problem is great and this is also recorded in the response of the Regional Food Safety Directorate one year ago, saying that of all the animals that were found during an inspection at the time of the first complaint, only four cattle and three goats had ear tags. As a result, an act of infringement was drawn up and most likely then prescriptions were made. But what happened? From there there is no change, on the contrary, this object exists, the animals increase and is not a domestic problem. Obviously, this is a problem that exists in many settlements and perhaps this needs to be regulated and changed in legislation. Perhaps in the Animal Treatment Act, which, as far as I understand it, will have changed. These problems need to be regulated because people are ready for other actions, including notification to the European institutions of what is happening in the settlements in Bulgaria, because the Bulgarian institutions are not doing anything to solve the problems. That's what I've been told in foster care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. Will there be a hole? No. Let's move on to the next question. He is number four of the National Representative Stefan Burgeev on the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for projects for non-farming activities in Pleven district. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Dear Minister Porozhanov, honourable colleagues! My question is the implementation of the Rural Development Programme for projects for non-farming activities in Pleven region. Dear Minister, in the 2007-2013 programming period in Pleven, projects under measures 311 and 312 were implemented in Pleven region. I ask your answer to the following: what is the number of projects implemented in the region? Have the criteria and business plans been met and what are the economic effects of the investments? Are there sanctions imposed for non-compliance with the conditions of certain projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u109	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u110	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Burgeev! A total of 31 projects were implemented on the territory of Pleven District under measures 311 and 312 of the Rural Development Programme from 2007 to 2013. Of these, 10 were paid with a subsidy of 3 million. 028 thousand. lv. for guest houses under both measures.. 311.4 and 312.6. The other projects are for other non-farming activities. 21 projects are with a subsidy of 5,8 million. lv. There are only two projects in the monitoring of the guest houses at the moment. You know, the monitoring lasts up to five years from the realization of the investment and the payment of the investment. Two projects are currently under monitoring and one of them has been included in the sample for on-the-spot checks for payment. The verification carried out under this project has shown that only the house is not implemented is functioning, but the business plan is not implemented, which is about 31% of the business plan. The requirement, in order to avoid financial corrections to the methodology, is to implement at least 50% of the set business plan for the monitoring period in which the process is controlled. This check is under way, a letter has been sent to the beneficiary himself to obtain an answer. In the event of a finding, a financial correction will be imposed, which in this case is about 5% of the subsidy amount. I cannot answer you right now for analysis of the Pleven region projects, what is the effect of them, for which I apologize. Now I understand it as a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u111	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Burgeev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u112	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, Dear Minister Porozhanov, Dear colleagues! I thank you, Minister Porozhanov, you are a correct person who is responsible for making commitments when a question is asked, at least so far. Obviously there are gaps in the analysis and the overall clarification of the situation of the events and trends. My question was dictated and asked by this because, according to official and informal data and in society, there is more and more opinion that especially these guest houses in a small part, I repeat. Not a small part, the data are different from the official and informal ones, there is a feeling in people of injustice and that literally certain people with some influence or in some second way have made themselves rudely home to live cozy and comfortable at the expense of being deprived of applicants or willing to apply who would realise potential with some economic efficiency for the region. These topics are particularly sensitive. You know, agricultural areas and small municipalities, this is an important thing. That is why I appeal to you, very analytically and very thoroughly to take the database, not only for the Pleven region, I am talking about the country at all, because this is a sensitive issue which is yet to be raised, irritated and creates public attitudes for injustice, so I appeal to a more responsible attitude, a larger database and where there is a violation of retribution, to have justice, to have punishments, to have as they apply the instruments of your respective Ministry. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u113	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u114	I absolutely agree with you. There is a problem with the use of one part of these houses. It's a public issue. No coincidence in 2016, somewhere in the middle it was, a paying agency published the full list. Over 700 houses have been funded under these two measures and about 300 more, I round them up because I don't have the numbers in me through the local initiative groups. There, of course, I think it was a little less subsidy. Therefore, the list of all those in monitoring was published, and then there were much, much more in monitoring.. has already been a year and a half since, so that signals can also be sent where citizens wish to reside in these guest houses and is denied them for reasons that it is not used for the purpose of the house. That's why I'm opening the door a little bit further. With this Rural Development Programme, at least my vision and the team of the Ministry is that guest houses with such funding should not be allowed. When the regulation is prepared, we expect in the spring to be prepared and a reception of 6.4 is the measure that is for non-farming activities, the financing of guest houses will be extremely limited. We're analyzing about 50,000. euros to avoid speculation and who wants to build a house, the main burden to come on own funding. Not by accident and by our information, of course, it cannot be officially confirmed, hundreds, not to say thousands, are willing to apply again. That is precisely why this will not be a priority for non-farming activities. The priority of non-farming activities under the new programme should be the creation of different types of services such as small businesses, restaurants, pastry shops, bakeries and whatever it is that create labour. Avoid speculation because it is very difficult to control a process when it is very massive. It is always within the framework of the legal framework that ill-intentioned ideas can be concealed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u115	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov on measures for support of farmers in the sector. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u116	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This issue is dictated by a number of meetings during my admissions with citizens who have their own activities, their own business in the sector. Most of these are people who fall into the category of small and medium-sized farmers. It is on the basis of these meetings and questions that have been asked me, that I also ask this parliamentary question to you. People are worried and are interested whether the state, whether your head office will take any measures towards being more interested in small farmers, what is the vision of the Ministry of Agriculture for this sector and what action will be taken? What people have shared with me and you know that wine-growing exists in our lands of the deepest ancientity and they now feel that it is not a priority sector in Bulgarian agriculture. They ask why it was not stimulated by the state by the production of dessert varieties, provided that by 1989 the state was in fourth place in exports of dessert varieties, in 1995 it exported more than 500 tonnes and then almost nothing? Also a number of such other questions, but we would like to hear from you whether the Ministry of Agriculture will take any measures in this direction to improve the feeling of these small and medium-sized producers that the state is behind them and they can safely look at their production?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u118	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, there is a very, very long answer, but I will rather talk to you about it. I do not believe that wine-growing is not a priority industry, but the opposite is perhaps one of the most prioritized. The point is that those with smaller opportunities, in terms of preparing their project, making their application normal, face difficulties. First, we have a national wine wine programme that is very well funded. It is financed by the Guarantee Fund through the so-called Market Measures and 50% of the subsidies under these projects are European, the other 30% are financed by the national budget and 20% should be the own contribution of each candidate. Within this Programme, the main activity is the restructuring and conversion of vineyards. It's a change in the varietal structure. The first programming period, which went through 2009 - 2014 - these programmes are five years old, funded nearly 62 million. EUR and 10 330 hectares have been renovated, that's over 110 thousand acres. Separately, there was also a measure of insurance, which was also used positively. In the current Programme, we have again paid around 80 million. EUR for 12 thousand hectares. Everyone is free to apply, the receptions are annual. Of course, we don't have a special privilege here for a bigger one or a smaller one, in this case, as you said, for the younger ones. Nearly 52 million a year is the budget or 26 million. Euros. It is good that this Programme will continue after 2019 in a five-year period with similar funding, which will be from the European Union. Perhaps the components of national assistance will be the same. In addition, each farmer has the opportunity to apply for an area scheme. In this case, I'm talking about wine and dessert. The single payment of area, green and direct payments, the redeployment payment, you know, for the redeployment, each small one can apply for on a deck every year, calculated all three together. In addition, in the tied support scheme, where only table grapes are supported, the payment is, at the moment, I cannot find the exact rate, but we have additionally in the tied support for the dessert grapes. Only wine grapes, at the expense of the dessert, are not in the priority cultures for support of 4.1 and 4.2 for investment. There are other fruits and vegetables. The motive is that within the framework of the Restructuring Programme they can be financed because this de facto enables them to support the investment to 80%, which is an extremely good opportunity. Until recently there was a measure, I can't tell you right now whether it is continuing, but there was a measure of compensation for the first three years when the array itself entered into fertility. I also do not exclude that, according to the Young Farmer and others for small farmers, everyone can again apply for protection of economic units, also with this type of agricultural product, in this case, vineyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u119	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u120	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Yes, we understand that measures are being taken in this direction, but I would still like, on behalf of these small and medium-sized producers, to address several applications to you, to consider in this direction, especially for dessert varieties and wine-growing at all, whether it is possible to change the way in the system of direct payments the two types of activity are regulated because it is currently aligned to plant farming? You know that the cost of one area is the highest in wine-growing. Whether you foresee changes in legislation to give some priority and to make these people more competitive in the market because it is not hidden from the community, and they themselves know that it is given an advantage precisely to the large producers in the sector. It's not for a reason these people turn to me. If they now hear from you that you are making a commitment as a minister within this mandate to further stimulate these people, because if they did not face certain difficulties when applying and then when paying the subsidies, and only for this year there was a complaint that they were late at one time, because for them each lev is of great importance and are not like the big producers and are not able to apply to banks and so on, so any support on the direct payments line for them is extremely important. If you actually make a commitment, it will be well welcomed by these people. Trust me, they're not very few. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u122	I wouldn't want to make a commitment right now. Speaking of the dessert vineyards, which yes, they are no longer a priority, meaning they are not mass, as before, here the main problem is the realization and the price that can be reached. Indeed, small producers cannot build their own refrigeration facilities, somehow preserve production and their access to the market is more difficult. That's one topic we should be thinking about. The toolbox is currently one. They're all different, I described them, maybe I missed one or two, but he's one and we can't come up with any new, different. Therefore, in this case the application is applied and we will soon open the Programme 4.2. I can't help but thank you today for the unacceptable Law that was for a paying agency that made it difficult for us to work with Isun. I would not like to comment on the visions of one or another of your colleagues, but I think it was a pretty serious step back that was taken. Therefore, in this case, I would rather like to make a commitment to think about it from the point of view of realization, because for wine vineyards is a little bit clearer... even every small producer has a place to put their grapes and make a good product of it, but let's see for the realization of the other dessert vineyards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u123	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the final question to Minister Porozhanov. He is from Nikolay Tsonkov concerning doubts about illegal and non-residential activities by the Director of the Southeast State Enterprise, Sliven.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is dictated by signals that came to me. On October 1st, an international hunt took place in the area of Topchi, where twenty-two employees of the southeastern state enterprise were dumped there with the company's cars and started to carry out checks. In the meantime, two more checks follow. The results of these checks are zero, there are no violations found, but the questions arise: on what basis, why are the checks done there? These are costs to the company. Keep in mind that this territory of the company is large, I think it is more important to monitor illegal logging, poachers and so on. There are also valid reasons to believe that there are large abuses in this state-owned enterprise, although you say that there are good financial and economic indicators. I would like to ask you: Have you ever done checks, do you know what is going on in this company, and do you know about abuses and violations, lawlessness by the Director of the Southeast State Enterprise? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u126	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonkov, you have presented the information quite incompletely, so I will try to supplement it. But in general, for the checks. First, the Internal Audit Office of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food is currently carrying out an audit commitment in order to ensure confidence in financial accountability and to respect the principles of good management of the undertaking concerned, the Southeast State Enterprise Sliven, for the period from its establishment until 2016, has not ended 2017. At the same time, the central management of the State-owned enterprise also entrusts and carries out audits of compliance of financial management in its territorial units, and until now 31 audits have been carried out, and in cases where damage has been found to the undertaking and violations of the Forest Act, the Hunting and Conservation Act and their regulations have been issued orders for the payment of penalties by the directors of territorial divisions. In 2014, an audit was carried out on the company from the "State Financial Inspection" Agency concerning the procedures carried out and the conclusion of contracts for the award of public works contracts, supplies and services in accordance with the Public Procurement Act and the financial inspection did not reveal any abuseq related to the management of the undertaking. In this case, you referred to the question of concession contracts itself. It is important to make it clear that the provision, management and use of game in the game areas of state forest farms are not subject to concession within the meaning of the concession law and you know this thing. Those contracts shall be concluded following a competition under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Conservation of Hunting and Conservation of Game and its Implementation Rules. Currently, the South East State enterprise has concluded 74 contracts for the provision of game management and use in game areas. An entity shall carry out annual controls on all contracts concluded through checks on the performance of its obligations by users. In accordance with the Hunting Act and so on, after the expiry of half of the terms of the contracts for the management and use of the game and game farms, the Executive Forest Agency together with the State Enterprise shall carry out a verification of their implementation. Verifications of 29 contracts were carried out between the end of July and the beginning of October. Until now, non-essential infringements have been detected by the users of game holdings for which specific prescriptions for their removal have been drawn up. Essential violations are identified by the company that has entered into a contract for the provision of the holding for the benefit of game in the game area. This contract was terminated by unilaterally one month's written notice by the director of the enterprise due to a guilty failure by the company. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In another inspection carried out on 4 and 5 October 2017, by order of the Executive Director of the Forests Agency on the implementation of the game management and use contract in the game holding section of Sadovo, in the area of activity of the enterprise GCC, Karnobat was also found to have a guilty breach of obligations by the user. Specific actions have not yet been finalised here. I would like to tell you that inspections of the enterprise's activities are being carried out, including, as you can see, by ADFI. From the point of view of the use and management of the sections that are provided after auction and competition, you know that everyone assumes his/her duties and commitments in the management and that he/she has normal financial reporting on incurred costs and others. I'm not getting into the concrete findings that have been made for these two precincts because I don't think that's the most important thing right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Porozhanov. For a line, Mr. Tsonkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u128	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am not satisfied with the answer, and I am surprised by the results of the checks that you reported because I have other information and I want to ask you how you will comment on the following facts: about a building in the Forest. It's being repaired at a value of over 100,000. lv. A forest home is being built with the idea of implementing hunting tourism, but there is no area. The administration is subsequently moved to Sungurlare Municipality, where repairs are being made again for 100 thousand. lv. to another building. Shortly later, the holdings of Sungurlare and Karnobat joined together and the office moved to Karnobat. How would you like to comment on the purchase of a yacht from the State Hunting Industry? What has imposed the renovation of the cabin, Ropotamo, for more than 2 million. lv.? Do you know about the construction of a spa in the cabin of Ormana? More than 30 lawyers work in the enterprise. At the same time, it appears from the 2015 and 2016 accounts that 100 thousand were spent in 2015. lv. for legal and advisory services, for 2016 It's 308 grand. Apparently, the company has legal capacity. The company's account for 2015 and 2016 is set at 350 thousand. lv. representative costs, i.e. 700 thousand for the two years. What are these expenses for, I'd like to ask you? Only the Forests Agency for the entire year costs them 350 thousand, and I would like to tell you that to other enterprises these representative costs are 30-40 thousand. Where's that money going? What do you spend it on? Apparently, there's been a lot of abuse.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u129	Time's up, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u130	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u131	Thank you. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u132	It is not obvious that there are violations and abuses. You managed to shoot me with all kinds of numbers, wanting to ask me. If you want to ask me, you can ask me. I cannot comment on you at the moment absolutely all investments in one direction or another which have been made in the years of one of the state-owned enterprises. Of course, each of the state-owned enterprises has its activities, there are hunting farms that have their functions that perform and you know them very well. About the specific cases when you were talking about October 1st in the case of a terminated contract, unilaterally, of course, maybe there is an appeal, I am not aware, there should be, if the country does not agree, do you find it normal as in action, in Western, to stand on one side with the organized hunters and the services that are of the civil servants to tell them that you are not regulated there in place and there to reach... So I'm going to hold back with a multipoint forward. So there are a lot of feelings in your answer, so my answer to you is over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u133	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to Minister Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The first question will be from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov on the deletion of the Reserve Here you go, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! In the territories of the municipalities of Peshtera and Bratsigovo is located the Nature Reserve. The same is under the auspices of UNESCO since 1977. During this year the reservation was deleted from the list of the Program The Man and the Biosphere of UNESCO. The removal of the park from the world network caused a wide public discussion in the Municipality of Peshtera. The local community insists on more transparency about what happened. In support of the development of the Park and its return to the Programme, over 2,000 residents signed. In this regard, I would like to ask you: for what reasons has the Reserve been deleted from the international organisation's list? Does the establishment of the modern-day biosphere park limit investment opportunities? And what are the lost benefits of the abolished UNESCO status for municipalities on whose territory this reservation is located? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Mladenov. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you are, Mr. Minister. Three minutes for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u136	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Mladenov! Since 2012 the Secretariat of the Programme "The Man and the Biosphere" of UNESCO has repeatedly invited Bulgaria and all countries with the so-called "old biosphere reserves" to reconcile their sites with the requirements of the Seville Strategy or to make steps to exclude them from the global network of biosphere reserves. According to the current requirements of the Programme, the person and the biosphere, the declaration of biosphere reserves can only take place in the presence of full support from local institutions and communities, and they must also participate in their management. In view of the above, as early as 2014, the Ministry of Environment and Water coordinated with the National Committee for the Programme, sent official letters and additional information to 27 municipalities and 33 town halls in which biosphere reserves of the so-called "old type" fall within their territory, inviting them to express their intentions to reconcile biosphere reserves within the scope of the deadline laid down by UNESCO 30 September 2016. In particular with regard to the Biosphere Reserve "Bupena" in the period 2014 - 2016. The MoEW has repeatedly sent letters to the municipalities of Peshtera and Batak, to whose territory the site falls, in order to provide an opinion on the possibility of including the whole or part of their territory in a potential biosphere park "Buvena" because the deadline is approaching and that there is a risk that the site will be removed from the world network. In August and September 2016, the municipalities of Peshtera and Bratsigovo informed the Ministry that they found it inappropriate to include their territories in a transitional zone for a potential biosphere park in the area of the reserve. As a basic argument, municipalities point out that procedures for approving common planning are underway and that the announcement of a biosphere reserve in whose transitional zone the settlements are included could create restrictions for carrying out future investment intentions in their territory. The opinions of the two municipalities are an occasion for Bulgaria to request the deletion of the Biosphere Reserve from the world network of biosphere reserves with a decision at a meeting of the National Committee of the Programme in September 2016, respectively at its 29th session, held in June 2017. The International Coordination Council of the Programme of the Man and the Biosphere of UNESCO excluded the Biosphere Reserve from the World Network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Mladenov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u138	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Thanks for the information, but nowhere in this information did I hear an answer to my questions. And I will repeat them once again: are investments possible in these areas where the scope of the Biosphere Reserve falls, and what do municipalities lose from their exit from this reserve? As I say again, the issue is of very high public importance, especially for the Peshtera Municipality, there is an initiative committee that is ready to sign the request that this reserve again fall within UNESCO's scope and I cannot understand whether this is possible from now on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u139	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u140	If I may, Mr. Mladenov. This isn't a closed trial. If the municipalities decide and change their opinion and apply for the appropriate procedure in the Ministry of Environment and Water, we will proceed. It's a whole process that doesn't end once and for all. And specifically, are investments possible? Depends on the investment. In fact, we have repeatedly sent information to all these town halls and municipalities, about which I said, what can be done, what are the benefits, what are the restrictions, as you always know that there are benefits and limitations. This information has been available for all these two years and has been repeatedly sent, and obviously in this case, the respective mayors or municipal councils have considered that potential investment intentions bring them a greater plus than to remain a biosphere reserve. Again, what investments can be made depends very much. Some investments are eligible, others are not, there is no general rule. However, this is not a closed process anyway, in practice the Ministry of Environment and Water must be addressed by the mayors with a decision that they want recovery and that they will participate in the management of this reserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's move on to the next question. He is one of the MPs Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov, Lyubomir Bonev and Georgi Stoilov on measures taken on the operation and operation of the Regional Waste Management System in Pernik region, built with funding from Operational Programme Here you are, Mr. Bonev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u142	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Regional landfill for non-hazardous waste "Teva" was put into operation on 29 December 2015. Permission to use No CT-05-2612 was issued from 29 December 2015 to DNCC "Sofia." In January 2016 an operator of the depot was On 8 November and 9 November 2016 a complex check was carried out for the Regional landfill for non-hazardous waste "Teva" for the municipalities of Pernik, Breznik, Zemen, Kovachevtsi, Radomir and Tran by a team of experts of RIEW Pernik, and a representative of the Basin Directorate of the West Belomar region. A number of shortcomings have been identified in the verification. No annual staff training programme has been prepared. Waste taken on the site and intended for disposal shall not be collected in accordance with the operator's requirements. The operator does not require documentation from the main characterization of waste from their generators. The composting installation does not work and the green waste received on the site is stored over the road near the fence of the yard of municipal terrain. Waste from the composting installation is not generated.. It has not worked since the start of the commissioning of the site. During the verification 21 prescriptions and deadlines for their removal are given. An act establishing an administrative infringement No 04/2017 of the Municipality of Pernik has not fulfilled its obligation to maintain the required quality of the purified waste water plants in Moshinsko dere.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u143	To the point, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u144	Dear Minister, in this regard, our question to you is: What measures have been taken by you for the operation and operation of the Regional Waste Management System in Pernik region and is the project for non-functional in the part relating to the green waste composting plant envisaged?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u145	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u146	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, honourable gentlemen Vladimirov, Bonev, Stoilov! The regional waste management system in Pernik consists mainly of the following facilities, a waste disposal facility, box 1, with the relevant complementary infrastructure, an infiltrating water treatment facility, an installation for high temperature biogas disposal, electricity supply, a water-exploitation road and others, a plant for the separation of domestic waste and a plant for the composting of green waste. The introduction, as you yourself mentioned, took place in 2015. In the process of the work, the plant for composting green waste during the average period for communicating defects, in accordance with the terms of the contract for CMN "FILIK-Yellow Book," was found a defect in the technology of submitting the materials to the composting tunnel, which the contractor failed to remove within the specified time limit. For this reason, the contracting authority extended it by another year to 29 December 2017. In an on-the-spot check on the sustainability of the investment project in March 2017, the managing authority of the Operational Programme By letter of the Municipality of Pernik dated 3 August 2017, a constant protocol of 30.06.2017 was sent, signed by representatives of the contracting entity, the Construction Supervision, the contractor and the operator of the regional system, establishing that the composting installation was put into real operation. In the event of a follow-up on-the-spot check, in September 2017, by the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Environment" for subsequent implementation of the projects of the previous on-the-spot inspection team found that the installation functioned normally and had improved technology. In view of the above, I believe that, at the time of the on-the-spot verification carried out in September 2017, the composting plant is operating normally and should not be a prerequisite for declaring a project for the construction of the regional waste management system in Pernik as non-functional in the part relating to the green waste composting plant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u148	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! We are partially satisfied with your answer, Mr. Minister. I said in part because almost two years after a number of inquiries.. to your predecessor and Prime Minister Borisov, who found that this is one of the excellent projects implemented, that this project should hardly be given as an example and Prime Minister Borisov thanked everyone who participated in the project for the well done work, almost two years after that, as you yourself pointed out, there are a number of irregularities in the implementation of this project. Therefore, with colleagues, quite often we receive signals from a number of institutions, experts and citizens, and the exhibition of our colleague mentioned possible emergency situations, the leakage of dangerous waters in the rivers around the landfill, and that the composting system has not worked for a long time. Those are all questions we keep asking. By the way, in my line, that's why I took it, I want to tell you that we are getting signals from both citizens and from working people that the installation itself does not work, as you mentioned in your reply. That is why I propose to you, together with you, that we respond, to check the landfill itself, whether the operator who has to operate the waste at the landfill in Pernik is doing the work properly, because the amount given for the management of the landfill is not small.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u149	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. It's a hole, Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u150	Dear Mr. Vladimirov, the last inspection that was carried out, as I mentioned, was in September of this year. Of course, it is always good to do checks, the question is to assess to what extent checks should be carried out continuously, because from one point on they become ineffective, and as you know, it takes both financial and human resources. If there are serious concerns, of course, I will respond to the invitation to do so. My appeal is to be careful about spending the resource anyway. I don't just mean financial resources as much as human resources. After all, many places have to be checked. And you know that in Pernik region the Regional Inspection is of relatively small composition and there is a very serious load in the municipality and in the area. But in any case, once you have these signals, we'll find a way to do it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question by the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov regarding air pollution in the city. Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u152	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! On 23 June 2017, you, Minister, showed us that you are familiar with the problem of air in the Ruse region, you specified, I quote: "To this moment the Regional Environmental Inspectorate in Ruse is conducting a procedure to assess the need for environmental impact assessment, and the information received by the operator has been sent for an opinion in RZI, the municipality and the Labour Inspectorate. More, you said: "After the completion of this procedure, it will be changed to the complex permit of "Mon-Tupe" to include new conditions guaranteeing the termination of disorganized emissions and unpleasant smells. Almost four months have passed and we are again witnessing another protest in Ruse on air cleanliness and pollution. Ruse is growing again with unpleasant smells and more and more worries about it. Once again, there is no apparatus to specify what the harmful emissions are and how much they harm us and our health. The people in Ruse, who survived chlorine terror years ago, have an increased feeling and do not want these emotions to surrender to their children. For more than 30 years, Russians continue to fight for air cleanliness. The fines imposed by RIEW do not achieve a real effect and people systematically wake up at night or early in the morning by an acute chemical smell. Again, 30 years of Russians fighting for their fresh air. Minister, what new action has been taken so far by your entrusted office on air quality in Ruse? Are the main air pollutants found in the region? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. The Minister of Environment and Water has the floor for an answer, Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u154	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable gentlemen of Zarkov, Stoilov and Milkov! I'll start the answer from the previous answer on what happened. As of September 2017, the RIOS experts carried out inspections of nine enterprises located in the western industrial zone of the city. The verification showed no infringements related to the release of unpleasant smells from the production activities of the companies. On Ruse's territory, they are constantly measuring one stationary and two mobile stations, with a fourth station being sent over the last week to measure air quality. These measurements do not indicate excess concentrations with the exception of particulate matter. Beyond that, Ruse's Regional Inspection carried out a study of the chemical substances and mixtures used by Mon-Tupe and specific organic compounds that could cause the unpleasant smell. In this regard and in order to establish the presence or absence of these specific odors in the atmospheric air in the city. Ruse on 3 and 4 October the Regional Laboratory of Ruse performed a trial at three points on the territory of the city. The first one is in the area of Levente, which will serve as a background level, the second one is in the Renaissance, which will serve to test air quality and the third one is in the site of Mon-Tupe. Upon receipt of the results of the analysis of the samples, if they are detected, i.e. in the air of Ruse, the punitions of specific organic compounds will be detected and established, the latter will be included in the system of own monitoring of. On the part of the RIOS Ruse, control has also been carried out on the implementation of the conditions under Decision No P-84-P of 2017, which you cited, to assess the need to carry out an environmental impact assessment for the investment intention. At present, the following conditions are met. As a matter of fact, it was sent for a complex permit, which is being carried out at the Environment and Water Agency. One more piece of information. Short-term and long-term measures have been taken to solve the problems. The short-term measures currently fulfil the following conditions of this plan. The company informed the Ministry of a planned change in the operation of the plant. A procedure for issuing a new complex permit has been established by the Environment and Water Agency. There have already been installation of 17 chillers on the roofs of Hall 1 and 2, as well as on the control panels for their management. A feasibility study was carried out for the installation of an aspiration and installation system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u155	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u156	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues, Mr Minister! I will take your response from the point of view not of the institutions, but from the point of view of the Russians. Because you said how the institution reacted to the problem after our question. I would tell you that if everything was okay, people wouldn't protest on the streets, wouldn't make groups on social networks where there would be as in the present case, thousands of citizens inside. In just the last month precisely because of the daily pollution, first, the permanent Committee on the Environment in the Municipal Council held an open meeting, attended by many citizens, and we were also attended by the MPs from different groups. Secondly, a number of protests were held in the last month by citizens in the city, including the 30th anniversary of what the colleague shared, from the first protests about air cleanliness in our city. I will use the tribune here as a MP to hear the things we Russians want to say. First of all, we want to do not accidentally throwing inorganic substances, but constantly throwing at organic substances, including those that are separated precisely in the production of the sanctioned undertaking: dimethylamine, which is produced by processing the details of rapid cooling; phenolformaldehydes and other organic substances that are produced by the decay of the resins used in production. It is the combination of these substances that creates the unpleasant smell of Bakelite that citizens are talking about. We insist on providing full data, not average, average daily data, because pollution according to experts passes quickly and therefore your average daily data does not report it. We're keeping the RIEW teams at least temporarily there. To predict an opportunity for a nightly referral... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating, Madam Chairman, a few seconds. ...because a lot of signals are at night. We want in Ruse to buy a permanent technique to measure these organic indicators, gas analysers to stay stationary in our city. And I will end with a quote from this morning, at 7.06 of the social networks in Ruse: I want to tell you that it is not normal for us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u158	Dear Mr. Milkov, I may not be clear enough in the answer in the first part of the answer, but that is exactly what we are doing right now. By throwing at these three different locations through the laboratory, we want to find out exactly what should be included in the own monitoring of Montupe, which we will define as indicators, and they will have to buy and measure at the enterprise's border, that is, not the chimney, but in the direction of Ruse. This is a specific case for which we had to do appropriate research. It's leaking. I can't tell you this is happening fast. I understand the Russians don't want to wait any longer. On the other hand, we need to identify everything we can identify in order to be as good as possible the monitoring, which will, of course, also be provided online to the Environmental Inspection and through it, on the Internet, so that it can be accessible at all times. We were talking about short-term measures, the definition by the RIEW and the MOEW system together with the help of the Environmental Agency of the exact parameters that we want to measure, and then the inclusion in this complex permit of Montupe to purchase what we want to be purchased as monitoring and to be permanently there.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Maybe I wasn't clear enough in the first part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u159	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, a question from the MP Stanislav Vladimirov concerning pollution of Struma river under the dam of Pchelina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u160	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Once again, the public attention is nailed by the fact that Struma River near the dam is running blue. For more than two years, residents of the area have been dissatisfied that the river every few months acquires a strange color and smells of sulfur. During this time, a number of complaints have been filed by various environmental associations against the fact that due to the activity of the hydroelectric power plant, the Struma River is heavily contaminated. Although the problem with water has been a few years, the solution to how to overcome it still will not. MoEW issues Water management permit from surface water site No 01440017 from 4 January 2012 to "Power Twenti Twenti" Ltd., gr. Sofia. The purpose of the water extraction is the production of electricity through hydroelectric power plants. The Pchelina dam has a total volume of 54 million cubic metres and a dead volume of about 34 million cubic metres. One of the objectives for which the dam was built is to play the role of waste water digger of Pernik and Radomir, including industrial waste water. At the bottom of this dam, numerous chemical elements have been postponed. In addition, the Struma River is subjected to a killer hydrological mode, as at different times hydroelectric power plants meters per second. Dear Minister, I would like to remind you that Struma River under Pchelina Dam falls within a protected area under the Habitats Directive 33/Earth/0001012, designated for the conservation of priority species and habitats. In this regard, my question to you is: what measures have been taken by you regarding the lasting solution to the pollution problems of the Struma River under the Pchelina Dam?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u161	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u162	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Vladimirov! In the Management Plan of the river basin of the West Belomar region 2016-2021 in order to achieve better condition of the surface waters was analyzed and the condition of the river Struma was assessed. The section from Struma River from the flow of Konyarska River to Pchelina Dam is valued in moderate environmental condition. Pchelina Reservoir is undervalued in poor environmental condition and unknown chemical condition. The section from the Struma River from the Beelin to Trekljanska River was estimated in moderate environmental condition and unknown chemical condition. Since the introduction of hydroelectric power plants, it has been found that the ecological potential of Struma after the dam has deteriorated since May 2016. Until the reasons have been clarified, the MOEW has ordered immediate suspension of the water capture by the dam "Beelina" for the purpose of producing electricity. The deteriorated ecological condition of Struma River, immediately after the dam, is the result of a long-standing cumulative anthropogenic pressure in the upper stream of Struma River and its tributaries before the dam. On the other hand, the intense water absorption from the deep layers of the dam - Beelin - leads to the absorption of the surface layer of toxic substances from old dirt and a sharp reduction of oxygen in the water, of dissolved oxygen. In order to improve the state of the Struma MoEW river, the company's permission to take water from the company "Power Twenty Twenty" Ltd., which is the owner of the hydroelectric power plant Pchelina. Decision No 216 of 27 October 2016 of the Minister for the Environment and Waters amended the permit issued in 2012 for water use of the dam. More than 50% has been reduced the expanded annual water consumption limit and water quantities have been established to water the river mermaid after the dam. Additional restrictive conditions have also been imposed in the operation of hydroelectric power plants, as well as even processing within the day of permitted water volumes for electricity. By official amendment, the holder was obliged to provide an additional aeration of the processed water, installation of continuous monitoring measuring devices for the flowing water quantities, as well as daily monitoring of the amount of dissolved oxygen in the water at three points. An additional condition was provided for hydroelectric power plants "Beelina" to operate only at the volume of the dam over 53 500 cubic meters. M, I mean, when it's really overflowing. In 2017, the Swimming Directorate included in the operational monitoring programmes an additional three points measuring the sampling and analysis of all major chemical-physical indicators, specific pollutants and priority substances. For specific violations of the company four acts are drawn up to establish administrative violations and there are two criminal decrees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vladimirov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u164	Dear Madam President, Mr. Dimov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm very worried about all that I've heard, especially about finding that the dam is highly toxic. I cannot understand how someone can give permission to produce electricity from this type of dam provided that even for non-specialists it is clear that when there is water taking from this type of dam, then the river coming out of this dam will surely be toxic. I heard from you in the reply that the power plant's work was officially terminated, then that it had composed several acts, that there were a number of prescriptions. I ask you specifically: will the work of the hydropower continue because even with a number of prescriptions that you have written to him, after the waters already taken from the deep part of the dam are difficult to stop with a number of prescriptions all the consequences that will continue due to the work of this hydropower? In the last days, despite your prescriptions, under the dam, the color of the river is still the same and the smell is the same.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u166	Dear Mr. Vladimirov, with all due respect, when spoken from this stands, I will ask you to use exactly what I have said. I said I quote the unknown state of need. I never said it was toxic at any point. So let's use the terminology correctly, because as responsible politicians this is part of our obligation. I didn't say at any time, I wrote down your words. Moreover, when you ask, you yourself mentioned that there the maximum volume is 54 million cubic meters. At the moment the permit is for over 53 and a half, that is, practically it can only work when the dam overflows. To date, this is one of the main restrictions imposed on the dam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question is from the MP Nadia Klisurska "Zekova" on the realization of the project "Ecologically disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with expired expiry date" under the Bulgarian-Swiss cooperation programme in the municipality of Strelcha. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u168	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! During a reception in the municipality of Strelcha, I was referred to by the residents of Smiletz City Hall as a problem warehouse, where dangerous pesticides have been stored for years. I was also informed by the municipality of Strelcha that in 2014 a pre-project study was carried out. I then got acquainted with the documentation related to the inclusion of the municipality in the project for environmentally friendly disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with expired shelf life. This project started in 2015 in April, but due to the concern of Strelcha municipality, I think the issue is of great public importance because this project covers 216 warehouses throughout the country and the disposal of about 5000 tonnes of dangerous pesticides. At the time on the website of the Public Procurement Agency, what is evident as a project movement is related to the selection of a consultant to draw up the relevant public procurement contracts to actually implement the project. The concerns of the inhabitants of Strelcha municipality, and I think of all municipal administrations in whose territories there are such warehouses, is when will the project really start, because the end is 2019 and the procedures for selecting a contractor and real actions have not yet started? In this regard, I ask you to answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u169	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. For an answer, the Minister for Environment and Water. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u170	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Klisurska! An agreement was signed on 21 April 2015 by the Deputy Minister of Energy Funds and Economic Policy Mr. Tomislav Donchev, the Minister of Environment and Water Mrs. Ivelina Vasileva and the Ambassador of the Swiss Confederation in Bulgaria His Excellency Denis Knobel for the implementation of the Project "Ecological disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection preparations with an expired shelf life" which aims to ensure an environmentally sound extraction of 4388 tonnes of unfit pesticides and other plant protection products throughout the country. The project activities provide for repackaging, transport, final destruction and cleaning of warehouses and terrains where the collected pesticides with an expired expiry date are stored. Status at the moment. At the moment, the draft procurement documents subject to this activity are in a procedure for approval by the representatives of the Swiss Confederation, that is to say, we have sent it at their request for final approval. It is expected to be announced in the Public Procurement Agency by the end of this year and to have an elected contractor in April 2018. This means that if there are no further difficulties, May 2018 should start the implementation of the project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u171	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u172	Dear Minister, the fact that since 2015, and now we are the end of 2017, is a very long period in which really operational procedures or procedures related to public procurement have not been carried out. The territory of the whole country is great. In these warehouses, in addition to securing pesticides, they are also linked to renovation of the relevant premises. Do you think that within the remaining period you will be able to cope with this activity and I sincerely hope that I am just saying that the realization of the project will be successful? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u173	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u174	Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I share your concerns. In practice, one of the first meetings I had when I entered as Minister of Environment and Water was with the Swiss Ambassador, precisely on the occasion of this Project, which is obviously delayed. In practice, there are objective and natural subjective reasons, perhaps the second are more. From now on, what's left of me is to move the procedures as fast as possible, so let's start May. It is a fact that, in practice, the active work must have been completed by September 2019 in order to be documented by the end of December 2019 because this is the final deadline. What I can say is that I've done everything I can to catch up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. This was also the last question to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov from today's parliamentary control. We are passing by with a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev concerning the amounts of penal decrees on acts drawn up by the employees of the Executive Agency, which are not given for forced collection, to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In reply to my question to you from 15 September 2017 you inform me that the total amount of fines and penalty payments from criminal decrees for the period 2009 to the end of 2016 issued by employees of the Executive Agency Of them 41 594 614 BGN. they're paid for. The criminal decrees which have entered into force for that period and for which payments have not been made amount to BGN 64 201 424. It should be given for public assembly 47 514 062 BGN, which are sent for forced collection by the National Revenue Agency or by private judicial contractors. It is extremely disturbing to me that in your response the difference from the sanctions of BGN 16 687 362 for which no payments have been received and the same is not included in the amount given for forced collection in the amount specified by you. In this regard, please inform me what measures and actions you have taken to specify this disturbing inaccuracies? Is there any supporting documents in the Executive Agency, and what are they? Are these amounts established by the bodies of the Court of Auditors? What actions have been taken to bring them together? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. For an answer, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, I would like to clarify at the very beginning of my reply that the amount of sanctions and fines imposed by criminal decrees sent by the Executive Agency "Master Labour Inspectorate" for forced collection to the National Revenue Agency or private judicial contractors is BGN 59 044 034. Of which 11 529 972 lv. are the amounts collected by penal decrees sent for forced collection during the period 2009. . Therefore, 47 514 062 BGN. is the amount of sanctions and fines imposed by penal decrees for which no payments have been received. Since it's a lot of numbers, I really want to start with this clarification. The difference in the amount of penalties imposed and fines under criminal decrees which have entered into force and have not received voluntary payments is BGN 64 201 424 and the amount of penal decrees sent for forced collection is BGN 5 157 390 and not BGN 16 687 362. One clarification of the difference is important because it is a large order. In principle, it must be borne in mind that the period for voluntary payment of penalties and fines without interest being charged is one month. In order to take enforcement action, the time limit shall be limitation and shall generally be five years. The Executive Agency is taking measures within this period to transmit administrative criminal files for forced collection to the National Revenue Agency. The data provided in response to your previous question shall be by the end of 2016. Whatever your question was. For the nine months of 2017 for forced collection to the National Revenue Agency are sent penal decrees, which imposed fines and penalties of BGN 9,850 194, part of which concern and unsent penal decrees for the period 2009. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, In response to the other questions you have raised, I would like to continue the answer to the fact that, until 2016, the activity of booking at the Executive Agency was in line with the instructions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and there were no observations in the audit of the Court of Auditors until 2015. Following an ongoing audit by the Court of Auditors in 2016, the accounting method for reporting the amounts under criminal decrees was adjusted. In the report on the financial audit of the Annual Financial Statement of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for 2016, the Court of Auditors found that the audit team had no confidence in accounting records and the establishment of unpaid criminal decrees. In relation to this finding, the development of a specific module of the accounting programme has started to take account of the amounts of criminal decrees as indicated. The module is at the stage of testing and migration of the data from the system of the Master Labour Inspectorate and is constantly working to resolve the discrepancies. Connectivity is also being built between the information system of the "Master Labour Inspection" and the system of the National Revenue Agency, which is set after the 30-day period for voluntary execution, the warrant under which such payment is not made, to be automatically sent for forced collection to the National Revenue Agency. It should be borne in mind that, by 2015, the Executive Agency was not in possession of a centralised information system, which is why the criminal decrees and their actions were reflected in an act book maintained under the Labour Inspections and local databases. As the time is running out, let me just add that thanks to the measures taken by the Executive Agency, the Chief Labour Inspectorate, during this year, the introduction and centralisation of an information system, the integration of information from the local databases in which it was collected by 2015, and others, has already had a serious impact on collection. The overall collection rate increased by 46.15% in the nine months of 2017 compared to the same period of 2016. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Danchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Minister, I am really surprised at the answer I received from you because these figures we are trying to throw at each other do not sound correct against the background of the written answer I have received from you. Therefore, I will allow myself to quote it once again: "Of the penal decrees issued, 90% have entered into force and are fit for voluntary and forced execution. The number is 93 170 for a total of 100 437 189 BGN. During that period, the amounts of around 67% of the Penal Orders entered into force or 55 738 of penal decrees worth 41 594 614 BGN (BGN) are paid slightly below you mention that about 63% of the Penal Orders entered into force were sent during this period for collection by private judicial contractors or by the National Revenue Agency. The number of penal decrees is 33 853, and the amount of sanctions imposed with them is 47 514 062 BGN. Unfortunately, I couldn't remember exactly how it came to this gap, which you are quoting right now, and the sum of the uncollected, I think, 16 million, almost 17 million. I'd say it reached nearly five million, as I recall what you're pointing out right now. That's the first thing that bothers me. The second thing that bothers me is that in your response I could not hear what the reasons for this amount in your amount were to be collected only in 2017 and not in that period when this was supposed to happen. I also did not understand what measures and actions you have taken to avoid avoiding punishment in the future. Agree that any avoidance of punishment disincentives correct employers and leaves in the working sense of injustice. I would therefore like to ask you: how would you sanction such omissions? I expected you to be given appropriate responsibility or at least to bring the relevant authorities who must carry out their investigation and verification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. For the coat, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u182	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Danchev! I don't want to deal with the numbers anymore, because maybe we won't get along. I am also prepared to present in writing all that I have said in order to guide you in this difference, perhaps reading and writing in the written answer has led you to conclude that the amount is 16 million, but I specify that it is three times smaller than this order. On the matter of substance, what has been done? After receiving in May, immediately after taking up office, the Court of Auditors' audit report on the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy's financial statement, what I did, is: I appointed an audit of the internal audit, which is at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. This audit has recently concluded.. There are eight recommendations on which action has been taken accordingly, and the actions taken immediately after receipt of the audit report are precisely the change in the way of reporting and the creation of a new module in the information system to be directly linked to the information system at the National Revenue Agency. I would like to point out here that the conclusion in the Court of Auditors' report is that there is no confidence, as what is submitted by the What is done from now on is to have strict accountability, it is not about non-punished, but rather about the process of recovery of claims under effective criminal decrees, which is undoubtedly important for the state to obtain what those who have broken the law owe it accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u183	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mr. Biser Petkov. We are going with questions to the Minister of Justice, Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva. Question from the National Representative Elhan Kulkov and Sergey Kichikov concerning declared intentions to reduce administrative burden and required documents for issuing criminal certificates to citizens. Here you go, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u184	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! According to Ordinance No 8 on the functions, organization and activities of the criminal justice bureaus Bulgarian citizen on the grounds of art. 35, para. 5 upon submission of an application for the issue of a criminal record, submit in original identity card, copy of the birth certificate or birth certificate in original or notary certified copy issued by a competent authority certifying the parents of the person requested for the certificate. At the same time, according to the same Ordinance, the judicial authorities, including regional courts, are resourcefully provided through a product for access to a national database. On the basis of art. 3, para. 1 of the last, MRRB through the Directorate General "GRAO" presents to the authorities of the judiciary information from the national database "Population", including ID, names, citizenship, indication of whether the following parents are alive - husband, wife, mother, father, brothers, sisters and children. On the basis of another 2012 Regulation on the functioning of the single civil registration system, the Directorate General for Civil Registration shall update the local population database and the electronic documents shall be sent daily to the territorial unit of the Member State of birth and shall enter all the data contained, including in the birth certificate drawn up in writing. With regard to the above, we believe that the birth certificate is required when requesting a criminal record and is a document provided by the State by electronic means to the judicial authorities. In the light of the above, our question to you is as follows: does the Ministry of Justice provide for action to be taken by you to amend that Ordinance in the part requiring the submission of a birth certificate when submitting a request for a criminal record by the relevant criminal justice services to the regional courts? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. For an answer, Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u186	Dear Mr. Kulkov, dear Mr. Kichikov, honourable Members of Parliament! In answer to your question, first of all, I would like to say that one of the main priorities of the current coalition government is the systematic reduction of the administrative burden of citizens and businesses, and in this direction several acts of the Council of Ministers have already been adopted. We launched by Decision No 338 of 21 June 2017 on the relief of administrative burdens by removing the requirement to submit certain official documents in paper form. At a regular meeting of the Council of Ministers on 5 October, a draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business was adopted. The adopted decision on the substance and the proposed amendments to the Law provide for changes to 68 laws under which, at this time, a certificate of criminality is required in the manner known to us all................................ is presented with the application........................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill is already in the National Assembly. At yesterday's meeting of the Legal Committee, he was adopted in the first vote. I hope that it will soon be tabled for debate in plenary and become a Law, as we have prepared amendments to Regulation No 8, specifically to your questions in the Ministry of Justice, in line with the amendments to these 68 laws of our current law, which require a birth certificate at the time of the application for a criminal certificate. As soon as the bill becomes Law, Decree No 8 will be published for public discussion, such as the rules under the Law on Legislative Acts. A change of art is envisaged there. 35, according to which the applicant will only provide an original identity card when applying for a criminal record. All other information, which is located and stored mainly in the "GRAO" but also in other structures of the state administration, will be exchanged without burdening citizens to hold the document in paper form. The Ministry of Justice provides for a major change to Regulation No 8 to be linked to the introduction of an electronic official criminal record and no paper documents will be required in order to be issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u187	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kulkov for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u188	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! I am satisfied with your answer and thank you. The question was raised on 4 October 2017 and I could not have known that on 5 October 2017. The Council of Ministers has taken such measures, but believe me, it will indeed be in the interests of both business and citizens, and will greatly reduce this difficult procedure, which requires both time and cost and means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u189	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. For the back, Mrs. Tsacheva? You won't use it. Let's get to the last question. He is from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva for professional internship for the acquisition of legal capacity. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, dear Mrs. Tsacheva! We are all convinced of the particular importance for the state, society and every individual citizen of legal professions. This is why the quality of education in the specialty of law focuses on the attention of state institutions, higher schools, students and the whole society. In accordance with art. 297 of the Law on the Judiciary, graduates of higher education in the specialty of Law and of the district courts of distribution by the Minister of Justice or authorised by the Minister of Justice. After the completion of the internship, the intern-journalists shall take the exam and those who have passed it shall be qualified to work in the specialty of state and non-state institutions, as well as the possibility of applying for the office of magistrates, free professions such as lawyers and others. In accordance with art. 297, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary, the internship is held in two stages. The first one shall be the principal one with a duration of not less than two months in each body of the judiciary. It is envisaged that during the internship the interns will not receive remuneration and that the time will not be respected for an internship. The second stage is professional with a duration of four months, as para. 3 of art. 297 of the Law on the Judiciary provides for an opportunity to settle a contract on obtaining remuneration. Failure to pay the internship creates many problems for interns who influence motivation and effective participation in the internship, doubling the work, as well as the possibility of full stay in the working days in the different institutions. Leaving without income and insurance, in the same number and health, after completing higher education during the internship forces a large part of the interns to start another job, leads to their fictitious internship. This is one of the reasons the representatives of the institutions and the persons under art. 297, para. 2 of the Law on the Judiciary, where theoretical and practical work should be carried out...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u191	The question, Mrs. Halacheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u192	...to validate their intended internship. In this regard, I would like to have an answer to the following questions: do you not think that the basic internship under art. 297, para. 2, a proposal 1 to be paid and a period of professional experience to be regarded as insured? Will you take action on the amendment to provide for the internship to be paid and to be regarded as insured? Will you take action to resolve the issue of paying the legal internship, which will also be laid down in the Ordinance governing the procedure for obtaining legal capacity? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u194	Mrs. President, Mrs. Halacheva, honourable Members of Parliament! As is known, the Law on the Judiciary is one of the laws that tolerate dynamics at different times and often change the legal norms in it. The principle of paying for internships was in force until 2003, after which the internships became unpaid. You will not stop, and I do not have time within three minutes you have explained what are the rules in force under the current Law on the Judiciary. Specifically, what does the Ministry see in this part? In this direction there is a developed and approved project "Developing the potential of the human resources of the judiciary by building an effective model for acquiring a service. It is funded under the Good Governance Programme and aims to explore the good European practices related to the problem that you have put in place the need for effective time for internship, for obtaining practical skills other than the knowledge that young people come out of law schools. However, at the same time, it has to be taken into account whether the state can afford these funds. This is why the amendments to the Law in 2016 provided for a double regime, which you have very detailed here, but I rely very much on the outcome of this Project for the development of the potential of the human factor in the judiciary, as we will receive an answer to questions on packages, as allocated to the Project an analytical report on the regulatory framework in European practices of eight Member States of the European Court on the conduct of internships after graduation in the specialty of law and practical theoretical examination. Work visits will be carried out in the leading eight countries, a comparatively analytical report will be produced with good European practices identified, and why not the outcome of the completion of this project be linked to the idea of legislative changes?! Before we analyzed the experience and practices in the leading countries, at this stage, at this date, the Ministry of Justice did not foresee any changes to this part of the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Halacheva for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, dear Mrs. Tsacheva! I ask you the question because I have been addressed by students who are lawmakers, for which this question and its placement is of great importance. That is why because they want to complete their education and then work on their specialty in Bulgaria. It is therefore very important for our country to provide conditions not only for conducting and performing training, completing the training, but also for the service itself to be paid for, for it to be conducted for an internship. My second question is about the effectiveness of the internship. The draft Ordinance on the acquisition of legal capacity provides that the Inspectorate of the Minister of Justice under the Law on the Judicial Authority should exercise control only in the proper organisation and conduct of the basic internship, which is two months, but not of the professional one. How do you plan to control the conduct of a professional internship and do you think that if one is missing, it will not be effective, but on the contrary, will be fictitious, as at the moment, I dare say, is being conducted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u197	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. To answer the line, Mrs. Tsacheva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u198	Dear Mrs. Halacheva, the issue raised by you in today's parliamentary control is extremely relevant because literally hours earlier today the Council on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, this reform, which has been going for a long time, had its extraordinary meeting, Mr. Krum Zarkov attended it, to which one of the points was devoted to legal education is it good, does it give the state good enough and prepared lawyers, where is the place in this training of conducting practical internships? All issues that have been being dealt with for many years, but still the representatives of non-governmental organizations, of the Magistrate communities and associations believe that we have not achieved this result, which is expected of our entire society. The question of internships is also part of the training. By a decision of the Council on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the judiciary, we united around the need to establish an expert group within the Council to carry out this analysis, monitoring the implementation of the current regulation, there is a new regulation that will enter from the next academic year. There, in the work of my colleagues, I expect, having the results of the project, which I informed you about in my reply, we will find good practices to bring into Bulgarian objective law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-20.u199	Thank you, dear Mrs. Tsacheva. This was also the last question to the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsacheva and the last question in today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be on 25 October 2017 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
