ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Go ahead, Mr. Nunev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! On the basis of art. 55, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am making a procedural proposal that item six of the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly be the first to vote on a bill on measures against money laundering to become the first item on our agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u3	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. Is there a reverse opinion? We vote on the proposal. They voted 173 MPs: for 145, against 6, abstention 22. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u4	Mr. Chairman, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Nedyalko Nedyalkov
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u5	Let us move on to the review of the Bill and I will put to the vote the procedure that you have proposed. Before this message: Application by Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov, Member of Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 23, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 4 I declare that I am leaving the leadership and composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights as Vice-President and Member. And another statement by Hayri Recepov Sadakov, MP from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 23, para. 3, p. 1 and para. 4 I declare that I am leaving the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights as a member. In relation to the applications submitted, I shall inform the Members of the National Assembly that according to art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, when a Member of the National Assembly stated that he was leaving the Chamber and/or the management of a permanent committee of the National Assembly, his release was announced without discussing and voting. Therefore, MPs Jayhan Ibryamov and Hayri Sadakov are also exempt from the composition and leadership of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Moving on to: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR MEASURES AGAINST THE TESTING OF PARI. Here's a change of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u6	Mr. Chairman, according to the procedure: from the State Agency "National Security".. Nikolay Nenkov and Evgeni Evgenyev, Director of the Specialized Administrative Directorate "Financial Intelligence".
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u7	We are voting on the proposal for admission in the Chamber of gentlemen Nenkov and Evgenyev. Vote 171 MPs: for 169, no objection, abstention 2. The motion for admission to the Chamber has been accepted. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. The report will introduce you to the President of the Commission "The People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At its regular meeting on 20 September 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. The meeting was attended by: from the State Agency "National Security" "President Dimitar Georgiev" and the director of the Directorate "Financial Intelligence" "Evgeni Evgeniev," and by the Ministry of Interior "Deputy Minister Krasimir Tsipov." On behalf of the importer The bill was presented by Dimitar Georgiev. In his statement, he pointed out that, given the numerous and substantial changes proposed to be made in relation to the current arrangements, the approach for drawing up a draft new Law on measures against money laundering has been taken to cancel the existing one. By adopting a new Law on measures against money laundering and amendments and additions to other relevant regulations, compliance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council will be achieved and the weaknesses of the current legislation will be eliminated. Money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime are often carried out internationally and are a problem not only at national level, but both at EU level and internationally. Flows of money of unlawful origin may harm the stability and reputation of the financial sector, endanger national security and the internal market of the Union and international development. Dynamically developing public relations and terrorist attacks in recent years in Europe have shown an even stronger need to update international standards and seek greater efficiency in their implementation. This is the reason why Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 was adopted in 2015 to prevent the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 649/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council repealing the existing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2006/70/EC. The 2015 directive significantly amends the requirements for prevention and countering money laundering and financing of terrorism and Bulgaria as a member of the European Union should introduce them into its national legislation. The objectives set by the new Law on Measures against Money Laundering are strengthening prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, combating corruption, more effective risk reporting, increasing the capacity of competent national institutions to analyse and exchange information. One of the main objectives is also to preserve the stability of society by preventing terrorist acts and preventing them from funding. Last but not least, increasing the transparency and accountability of legal persons and other legal entities registered in the country or managing property in the country, as well as increasing the capacity to counter and expose risks. The measures introduced by the new legislation should be implemented by two groups of persons/organizations. On the one hand, these are the competent state authorities and institutions. On the other hand, are the categories of debtors which have not been substantially amended by those covered by the Act in force until now, but the legislative amendments introduce new definitions to determine the measures to be applied and the ways to implement them. The new requirements for debtors deal with certain deficiencies in their behaviour as debtors. Two types of checks are provided for: complex and simplified, depending on the assessment of the potential risk of money laundering or terrorist financing. The draft law provides clarity as to the cases in which the entities obliged under the Law are obliged to apply measures for an extended complex examination in the assumptions set out in Directive 2015/848 and provides for such measures to be applied in situations with another higher risk according to the criteria laid down in the Law. The establishment of an interinstitutional working group with an act of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria to prepare and update the National Risk Assessment is regulated. A higher preventive effect is expected to be achieved with the introduction of stricter sanctions for non-compliance with the Law, as well as improving the control functions of supervisory authorities. To increase the level of exchange of information, it is envisaged to introduce the use of additional electronic means of obtaining, analysing and exchanging information. The possibility of providing information electronically with a qualified electronic signature or with an access certificate issued by the SANS is explicitly provided. Among the main changes is the explicit formulation of an obligation for all legal persons and other legal entities established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and their contact persons, as well as for all natural and legal persons and other legal entities acting in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as trust owners of trusts, trust funds and other similar legal entities established and existing in accordance with the law of the jurisdictions and their contact persons to receive, to have and to provide in cases defined by the Law precise information on the natural persons who are their actual owners. Essential changes are also provided for in the proposed new regime for establishing the origin of the means aimed at higher efficiency, administrative economy and flexibility according to the type of transaction or operation, the risk profile of the client and so on. Changes are also envisaged with regard to the regime in force of the Internal Rules on Control and Prevention of Money Laundering in order to achieve administrative savings. The control of the implementation of the Law is carried out by the President of the State Agency of National Security and on-the-spot checks of the persons obliged under the Law will be carried out by the staff appointed by the Chair of the Agency of the Directorate of Finance Intelligence. In respect of administrative criminal provisions, penalties are laid down for both natural and legal persons in the event of non-compliance with the rules of the Law. There is also a publication on the website of the SANS of information about all criminal decrees that have been imposed. The application of the rules of the new Law on Measures against Money Laundering should reduce the risk that financial institutions in the country will be used to conceal and integrate funds of uncertain origin, to reduce the level of crimes generating a financial result, including corruption, to increase trust in institutions, to increase the level of interaction between national institutions and their international partners in the Member States of the European Union. The project is provided for coordination by associations and professional organisations of the persons under art. 3, para. 2 and 3 in September 2016. A discussion was held in October with the organisations expressing readiness for this. The Law also provides for the relevant amendments to the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism. The rules in other relevant regulations have also been revised. People's representatives Ivan Ivanov, Krasimir Yankov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Veselin Mareshki, Diana Savateva, Todor Baychev, Volen Siderov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov took part in the debates. The Members of the National Assembly raised questions related to the law enforcement capacity, the scope of the debtors, the definitions of the actual owner and the subordinates, as well as the need for expert clarification of certain norms with a view to eliminating the contradiction with other rules governed by the special laws in force. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. A report of the Commission on the control of security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications is forthcoming. The report will introduce us to the President of the Commission the People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u10	♪ I can't believe on the draft Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At a meeting held on 7 September 2017, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. The meeting was attended by representatives of the State Agency of National Security and the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance. The draft law and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Nikolay Nenkov, Vice-President of the State Agency of National Security, who pointed out that in view of the numerous and substantial changes proposed to be made in relation to the current arrangements of measures against money laundering, the approach for drafting a new Law on measures against money laundering is adopted to cancel this. The bill aims to bring the Bulgarian legislation into full compliance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, international standards, the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, search, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime and financing of terrorism, as well as binding resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. The Law lays down measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering, as well as the organisation and control of their implementation. A timely access to information of a financial, administrative and enforcement nature is envisaged, which is necessary for the financial intelligence units for the proper performance of their tasks. The draft sets out the categories of information which constitute professional secrecy within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act if the information is not classified as state secret within the meaning of the same Law. As mechanisms allowing cooperation and coordination at national level in the development and implementation of policies and activities to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, two main groups shall be distinguished: a mechanism for carrying out a national assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing and joint instructions for interaction between the Financial Intelligence Unit, on the one hand, and the supervisory authorities, the prosecution, security and public order services and other state bodies and institutions having competence in the area of prevention and prevention of money laundering and terrorist financing, on the other hand. The control action on the implementation of measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering is intended to be carried out by the Directorate of Finance Intelligence. Following the discussion in which the MPs expressed their support to the Draft, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications by 6 votes for the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to the people's representative Anna Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At its meeting held on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of State Agency of National Security and Mr. Evgeni Evgeniev, Director of Finance Intelligence and Ms. Anna Gochkova, Head of Department of Legal and Normal Activities. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Evgeni Evgenyev, who pointed out that it aims to bring the Bulgarian legislation into full compliance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and terrorist financing, international standards, the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, search, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime and terrorist financing, as well as binding resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. The bill lays down prevention measures for the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering, organisation and control of their implementation, as well as the circle of debtors. Mr. Evgenyev pointed out that prevention measures include complex checking of the clients of the persons obliged under the Law, collecting, drawing up and storing documents and other information, assessing the risk of money laundering, disclosure of information about suspicious transactions, transactions and clients, disclosure of other information for the purposes of the Law, control of the activities of the obliged entities and exchange of information. The Draft Law provides for timely access to information of a financial and administrative nature necessary for financial intelligence units in the performance of their tasks. The possibility of providing information electronically with a qualified electronic signature or issued by the State Agency is explicitly regulated and for certain categories of information it is intended to do so through secure electronic communications channels, subject to the requirements of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information. The project envisions the control activity for the implementation of measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering to be carried out by the. Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Krum Zarkov and Danail Kirilov. Mr. Popov noted that the project goes beyond the transposition of the directive and raised issues related to the interpretation of words and expressions used in the bill, which would create difficulties in implementing the Law. Mr. Zarkov noted that the parliamentary group for Bulgaria will refrain from voting on the bill. Mr. Kirilov said that he would support the proposed draft and pointed out that in the discussion between the first and second votes, the opinions received from different organizations should also be taken into account. The draft received opinions from: Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators, Bulgarian Association of Companies for Extra Pension Insurance, Bulgarian Insurance Association, Bulgarian Association of Organizations of Bulgarian Employers, Bulgarian Consumer Credit Association, Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, Painetics (E-money Association) and representatives of Bulgarian NGOs. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council of Ministers, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism will introduce us to the Vice-President of the Commission the National Representative Daniela Saveklieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present: ♪ I can't believe on a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At its regular meeting on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the bill on measures against money laundering. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Interior Angel Mechkov, an employee in the sector of the European Union money laundering and fraud in the Directorate-General for Organized Crime, by the State Agency of National Security and by Nikolay Nenkov Vice-President, and by the Ministry of Finance Kaloyan Simeonov, State Expert in the Directorate of Financial Markets and Anna Buchvarova. The bill was presented by the Vice-President of the State Agency "National Security" Nikolay Nenkov. The draft law partly introduces the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC. Measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering and the organisation and control of their implementation shall be defined. The prescribed prevention measures shall include: 1. It's a complex customer check. 2. Collection and preparation of documents and other information and their storage. 3. Assessment of the risk of money laundering. 4. Disclosure of information about suspicious operations, transactions and clients. 5. Disclosure of other information for the purposes of the law. 6. Control of the activity of the obliged entities and exchange of information. The measures for a complex inspection are: 1. Identification of clients and verification of their identification. 2. Identification of the actual owner. 3. Collection of information and evaluation of the purpose and nature of the business relations that have been established. 4. Establishment of the origin of the funds. 5. Current monitoring of established business relations. Common rules, special rules and exceptions, rules for carrying out simplified complex checks and rules for carrying out extended complex checks are also laid down, depending on the risk assessment carried out. In the field of competence of the Commission falls the definition of obliged entities in art. 4 of the Law, such as payment service providers within the meaning of the Law on Payment Services and Systems and their Representatives, Insurance, Reinsurers and Insurance Mediators, with the exception of tied insurance agents within the meaning of the Insurance Code, Investment firms, collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, privatisation authorities and others. Specific rules are laid down for the implementation of complex verification measures with regard to beneficiaries of insurance contracts. A new category of information received from the Central Depository is envisaged, which concerns the issuance and disposal of non-available financial instruments. In this regard, the Law provides for the necessary amendments to the Insurance Code and the Law on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings. During the discussion, the people's representative from the parliamentary group Roumen Gechev, said the group's decision to vote abstentions under the Law, due to subjectivism and ambiguity in a number of its texts. The Vice-President of the Adlen Shevked Committee announced the decision of the parliamentary group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" also to vote "abstained" because of the opinion that contrary to the government's decision to alleviate the administrative burden for business, it is increasing. In their written opinion of the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, they point out that, together with the positive changes, the bill creates a highly restrictive national legal framework regarding the application of complex verification of the client by e-money publishers, which significantly restricts the opportunities for development of the electronic payment market in Bulgaria. In their opinions from the Bulgarian Association of Extra Pension Insurance Companies and the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators make proposals on specific texts of the Bill and share the opinion on increasing administrative burden. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism suggests that the National Assembly should not adopt a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveclieva. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. The President of the Commission will introduce you to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. At its regular meeting on 20 September 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined a bill amending and supplementing measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. Mr. Dimitar Georgiev presented the draft by Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Security Agency, Mr. Evgeni Evgenyev, Director of Directorate in the same Agency, Mrs. Tsvetelina Stoyanova, Head of Sector in the same Agency, Ms. Anna Gochkova-Tsalovska, Head of Department in the same Agency, as well as Inspector Angel Mechkov, Department of Finance and Fraud with European Union Funds. This Bill aims at defining measures to prevent the use of the financial system for the purpose of money laundering, as well as the organisation and control of their implementation. Money laundering, terrorist financing and organised crime represent a significant problem to overcome, which should be addressed not only at national level but also at European Union level. The draft law introduces in national law the provisions of Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending Regulation No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC. The preparation of the text of the Directive takes into account international standards for combating money laundering and financing terrorist activities and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction of a Special Financial Action Group as of February 2012. In view of the requirements of Directive 2015/849, a number of measures have been proposed to prevent the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering, which, under the Bill, include complex customer checks, risks and information about financial transactions. All requirements for carrying out complex customer checks follow both the provisions of the Directive and international standards. The circle of persons who fall within the definition of a prominent political personality is also extended and measures for an extended complex examination are mandatory. This is necessary in order to align the definition with the requirements of the Directive. An obligation is introduced to establish the source of wealth of these persons in order to transpose the provision of art. 20 of the Directive and the requirements of international standards..................................................................................................................... Also, an explicit definition of a phantom bank is introduced corresponding fully to the one in art. 3, p. 17 of the Directive in order to cover financial institutions or institutions carrying out activities equivalent to those carried out by credit institutions and financial institutions. A detailed definition of the concept of actual owner is laid down in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill, which fully corresponds to the definition in art. 3, p. 6 of the directive. The possibility to request suspension of a transaction or operation to be carried out outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is explicitly introduced, as well as the possibility to stop such a transaction or operation on the territory of the country at the request of a foreign financial intelligence unit, which is required due to the requirements of the Directive. 32 (7) and the Council of Europe Convention on money laundering, search, seizure and confiscation of the proceeds of crime and terrorist financing. Chapter 7 of the Bill includes provisions governing the assessment of the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing aimed at transposing art. Article 7 8 of the Directive and compliance with Recommendation 1. The Law also provides for the powers of the control bodies of the State Agency for National Security in carrying out the checks, as well as the obligations to assist the control authorities by the persons and public authorities obliged under the Law, to comply with the requirements of the Directive, the FATF Recommendations and the Council of Europe Convention on Money Laundering. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Mr. Ivan Ivanov noted that the bill contains a number of weaknesses, some of which are also noted by NGOs that submitted opinions on it. Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Security Agency, informed the members of the Commission that it was decided to form a working group to examine the draft carefully and to submit the necessary changes between first and second readings. In conclusion, the President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds stressed the importance of this Law and called for support, but with the condition that the working group should take account of the opinions presented and improve the texts before its final adoption by the National Assembly. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 4 votes for the Council of Ministers and 3 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a bill on measures against money laundering, No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Would anyone like to take the floor from the importers? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor of speech, please. Dear colleagues, I am pleased to inform you that our guests are young people from the town of Samokov, at the invitation of the National Representative Valentin Milushev. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u18	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today we are being proposed to discuss a bill on measures against money laundering. Undoubtedly, such a Law is needed by society, given the depraved practices that have been established, but I would still like to tell you that we from the BSP for Bulgaria and we have serious comments. The law will support, but we reserve the right to demand the imposition of changes and the dropping of certain norms proposed in these texts so that we can support it at second reading. What do I mean? In the territory of the European Union, non-life insurance is excluded from the scope of this Act in force. Total insurance is low risk, short-term and cash does not have an investment effect. Nowhere has the financing of terrorism or money laundering proved to be through non-life insurance. I believe that the position of insurers in Bulgaria to this Law is correct and they rightly insist on making such changes. Another change that we also insist on is with regard to e-money publishers, as they will be placed at a disadvantage to the rest of those who act in the territory of the European Union. They will be charged with an administrative burden, namely the complex inspection, which they cannot carry out because they do not have the necessary capacity. Apart from that, we are also offered legal norms that will not produce absolutely any legal effect. In the Commission, we discussed it with the President of the SANS, and I quote: "It is the actual obligation of these persons and legal entities to provide information on the actual owners in carrying out checks. It is also envisaged that upon request of such information it should be provided to the Directorate of Finance Intelligence at the National Security Agency. This, the same person who was planted, with one declaration or in any other way to declare or show who the real owner is?! That's not very serious, my colleagues. After all, why would a company be made and registered through a planter when it will reveal who the actual owner is? It must be revised here and presented in such a form that the norm produces legal action and not be purely formal and declarative. I would like to draw attention to one more thing. The project introduces a ban on opening or maintaining anonymous accounts or an account under a fictitious name, as well as the opening and maintenance of anonymous deposit certificates or deposit certificates under a fictitious name. And so far, in the current legal framework, an anonymous account is not allowed, so let's face it, there is nothing to beat around the bush. It's a purely formal requirement. Another question is that an account can be opened through an untrue identity document or one that proves who you are, but the employees who work in the relevant bank do not have access to the Ministry of Interior database to verify whether this is the actual person who is presenting himself and wants to disclose the account. The circle of persons falling within the definition of prominent political personality is extended to whom measures for extended complex verification are mandatory. This is necessary in order to achieve compliance with the definition of a prominent political personality. This is where we return to the debates that have been going since the beginning of the week - who is the cousin, who is the best man, who is the world and so on. I think it also needs to be refined to what extent of matchmaking the person can be checked, whether this applies only to appointments or money laundering. Another thing I would also like to highlight. It is purely formal that the document provides for a complex verification of any revealing account or random operation for more than 15 thousand. EUR, or their equivalent in Bulgarian levs and carries out cash transactions for more than 5 thousand. lv. And at present, there is a provision in force which obliges each person to fill out a declaration of origin of the money. I don't know if anyone checks these declarations, does they bother to check them or not, but such legislation is in place at this time and it is working?! It is also interesting that all these data where will be collected and who will process them?! Wouldn't it be difficult for the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the DANS to carry out their direct obligations to protect the property and rights of citizens and their privacy and to go into a clean paperwork by examining documents that they have entered into certain transactions?! I would like to tell you that this Bill also provides for an unnecessary administrative burden in relation to non-profit legal entities. In my vast part, not to say 99%, these are legal entities, mostly retired clubs, sports clubs, community councils, church boards. There is no way for them to be charged with checking the donations, the cash flows of the donors, who is the donor and so on, as they do not have the necessary administrative and professional capacity. As a result of everything listed so far, I return to our original thesis that we will support the Law at first reading, but we will insist that certain provisions be dropped, as well as the revision of certain regulations that have been proposed at present. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Do you have any lines, colleagues? Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thus, the submitted bill creates conditions for us to look for answers to several questions. Firstly, how effective is the work of the institutions to date, of the relevant units with the powers they had under the regulations to date? What is the report on the work of the Department of Finance Intelligence at the State Agency of National Security? We do not know exactly what is needed on the basis of this report and the analysis that is provided to us to do in order for the work to be more effective. Otherwise, it sounds loud: A bill on anti-money laundering measures. It also seems that on the basis of a directive, we are adopting a law. However, my fellow Members, the European Union directive is not, first of all, imperative, not mandatory for the member states. And, secondly, with such proposals, the Bill is expanding the scope. And immediately the next question: is the state able to comply with the provisions of the proposed Bill? Is there expert capacity, personnel or these expanded powers, the great scope will enable the state, understand the management of GERB, to use a target for certain individuals? I argue that there is no capacity either in the State Agency "National Security" or in the other units to apply the proposed texts in the Law for all persons. Since we will frighten the people that it is very important to adopt this Law because it is related to the changed security environment, to funding hardly terrorism and we must cross it, let us be frank, because in the texts of the Law, and also in the motives it is intended to investigate individuals who are engaged in political activity, their relatives. Whether this is not the next body to be incorporated by law opportunities to be the fist of the state, fist of Boyko Borisov, or because it is accepted in the Law of the Fist of Tsvetan Tsvetanov. In the last few days, we ask ourselves: who will actually have the opportunity to use the power of the party and the state? [[(Comments from GERB: Who? Who?]] The powers of these units, which will apply the Law, will they be used as a target, or will they be worked in the way that it is properly presented to us? Is there a feeling of security in Bulgaria? Is there a feeling that the state governed by GERB will implement the laws as we expect as in a democratic society? A management poverty, a lack of legislation, by the way and about this Act in the Internal Commission, the chairman of the parliamentary group, which also reconciles the Presidency of the Internal Commission, announced that, in relation to the arguments that were put forward by the opposition, there will again be a working group. So, the government, the executive, are bringing in a bill that will once again have to look for changes in the texts so proposed in order to have consensus. The parliamentary group of the ruling majority, the executive, obviously in the legislation, has a gap or are trying to imply that dialogue can be found. You submit a Bill with specific texts, you have the majority of it clearly that after one year, starting to apply it, people will feel the effect on their heads, on their backs from the repression you predict. You compensate for this management poverty and weakness with opportunities for fear, because what is offered with the specific texts is exactly an experience tomorrow the state, using the opportunities of us lawmakers, with the voting of bills, to instill fear. With fear you will not rule for long, ladies and gentlemen of GERB! By putting the people against the wall, expect him to react! He'll respond adequately to the pressure you're exerting. Come to your senses and work for your people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the people representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do not think it is bad when working groups are created, because Parliament has a leading role in the final adoption of every single bill. The executive power is in the opportunity to initiate legislative change, as well as the MPs do it between first and second readings. The power of true parliamentaryism is when we actually strengthen the role of Parliament and the relevant committees, which have a direct bearing on sectoral policies. As far as what has been vetted by BSP colleagues is concerned, I would like to propose to them that you actively participate in the working group, because the working group is not only for the MPs from the different parliamentary groups. The idea of the working group is to invite representatives from all non-governmental organizations, who at present in the dialogue which is built between the Internal Commission and the non-governmental sector, we always hear the different opinion. And that's why we're doing this task force. And that is why, once, if it is adopted, of course, the Bill, we will propose that there be an extended period between first and second reading, so that we can really refine the legislation that has been tabled by the executive and be able to adopt sustainable legislation that gives a full guarantee that institutions are not used for political repression or what you are currently trying to instill in this House. I guarantee you that we have never, for any reason, shown this in the Private Security Act, there were different opinions between the associations themselves and representatives of private security because we do not want them to oppose it, so we have made a working group, it is already working. All those who want to participate actively by the Internal Commission are invited. You know that for every initiative we make, we always invite all the representatives of all the parliamentary groups, because we believe that this is the power of diversity that there is in Parliament and in all the parliaments that have so far. Colleagues, I think it is better and let us look positively and encourage the creation of such working groups, which can actually refine and create sustainable legislation and, with contradictions, I think it is the easiest to provoke it and this can be done, but I do not think it is the most useful for parliamentary and parliament in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Line, Mr. Iankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you said you could be a guarantor not to use the authorities for political repression. You can't be the guarantor!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u25	Not me! Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u26	You can't practically be a guarantor!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u27	Parliament! Parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u28	You stand up and speak on whose behalf on behalf of the parliamentary group? Speaking on behalf of Parliament?! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, obviously we will have to remember what happened in Bulgaria for the last ten years, since it was established and worked with Bulgarian citizens Political Party GERB. And I warn you that with these texts so proposed, you will again use the state to repress our fellow citizens. I do not worry in personal quality or some of my colleagues, but what you are giving the opportunity by adopting such laws, you will use tomorrow. And I warn you that this will certainly result in people's reaction. And you're telling me that you can work with a task force. You are proposing legislation, you have a majority and you will vote on it because you have not heard any of our arguments on all the bills you have proposed, albeit little, proposed in this Parliament, and now you are explaining what? That the task force solves all matters. That's ridiculous!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yankov, I believe that examples of your really skillful use of the political repression institutes can be given, and I can remind you of these periods in 2013, those MPs who were here and this formed majority that you implemented in your management mandate. And I can give you myself, as an example that you can always bear in mind, because, tell me, was it normal for the chairman of a parliamentary group who participated in an election period to submit an anonymous signal? Was that not the involvement of the Bulgarian institutions for political repression? We want to make a guarantee in the Bulgarian Parliament that this is not allowed. And that is what we propose, because you know that both under the Private Security Activity Act and about this Law, the proposals we made in the discussions are to clear the possibility of implementing power through regulations to supplement law. And this is the power of these working groups, in which we are participating together with the non-governmental sector, and they adopted this approach because you know that when I expressed a similar opinion in the Internal Commission, both representatives of private security activities and representatives of non-governmental organisations adopted this approach because, indeed, when we adopt a law here, this is the guarantee. And we will not allow regulatory regulations to supplement the law by which such sensations can actually be created. [[Noise and lines.]] Well, how can there not be? Because this bill also has a similar approach, and we say that this will be changed. And we will do this together if you decide to participate, but we will participate together with the non-governmental sector, because we know that they are part of the Bulgarian society, and we must give the full guarantee with one transparency in the adoption of the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches? Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u32	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of Parliament, the majority of the arguments have already been presented, but still, as far as a bill which takes into account essential European legislation, I would like to say the following. This bill incorporates specifically and correctly a large part of the European regulations. That is, from this point of view, we would not have had problems with the correct implementation of legislation, which is an important element of our legislative activity. At the same time, however, this Bill goes far beyond the scope of the directives needed to be introduced. From this point of view, we can say, for example, that the scope of persons subject to the checks is being extended, and on two lines it is because they are listed in the Law and the other is that the thresholds have been significantly reduced in each of the areas subject to verification compared to those laid down in the Directive. Not that it's incorrect. This is theoretically possible from the point of view of European legislation, but here the question arises: firstly, is it possible for the relevant institutions responsible under the Law to deal with the huge scope of activity that will be applied to them by means of this Law if it is adopted in this form? Secondly, it will make the economic and financial operators very difficult to operate. And speaking of a working group, I wonder how this Law has been drawn up, since it is logical that such sensitive legislation at such a preliminary stage should take into account the views of the relevant organisations and institutions that are relevant to it. I was really impressed by the number of organizations that subsequently sent their opinions, which means that at a preliminary stage or their opinion was not respected or simply not requested. It's about a series of organizations. I would like to read them because we still have to take account of their commitment, and this only shows the importance of this Law and how much scope of economic and financial activities it affects. The Bulgarian Association for Consumer Credit, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Confederation of Employers and Industrialists in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Association of Companies for Extra Pension Insurance, the Association of Bulgarian Insurance, the Bulgarian Association of Insurance Brokers, the Association of Insurance Brokers in Bulgaria, the Association of Insurance Brokers in Bulgaria, the Association of United Insurance Brokers and the opinion of a group of non-governmental organizations, as their activity is within the scope of this Law, the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators, the Bulgarian Association for Leasing and the Electronic Money Company. I explicitly stress this because I would like these very specific proposals made by non-governmental organisations to be taken seriously into account in the work of the working group, which, as we understand, has a commitment not only on the part of the SANS, but also on the part of the parliamentary group of GERB and the Internal Commission to be established because it is in the interest of everyone. I would propose that a principle approach be nevertheless adjusted to the thresholds and scope of checks in question, and if we see that the institutions and operators, respectively, have the possibility to actually apply this Law, then, at one subsequent stage, to move on to further lowering those thresholds if it is considered possible and necessary. Of course, our doubts remain regarding the possibility that this Law, if adopted in this form, will be used not only for political but economic repression. So here it really is an issue that we ourselves will monitor very closely, and, of course, with the help of our European partners, we will make sure that this is not allowed. On our part today, we are giving a political signal because there cannot be an effective fight against corruption if there is no effective fight against money laundering. We will support the Bill, but, of course, we will actively participate in the work of the working group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the people representative Valeri Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u34	Excuse me, could you extend the group's time, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u35	Extend it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u36	Honourable Members of the Parliament, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We seem to, by momentum, without thinking about it, to adopt a legislation whose spirit and letter are increasingly drifting away from the fundamental principles of modern free and democratic society, from the constitutional rights of citizens who are written in our Constitution. More and more legal documents and acts created outside the Bulgarian Parliament are beginning to be adopted uncritically in the form of laws by our National Assembly. It seems to me that we must be extremely careful when, in the form of a law against money laundering, there are essentially different techniques for limiting civil rights and freedoms. This Law contains two main elements. The first is: any possible means by which state and non-state institutions falling within the list of so-called debtors, collect information, verify information and create informational arrays in cooperation with law enforcement and law enforcement bodies for the economic activity of citizens. I would like to remind both the initiators of the Bill and the honourable members of the so-called 'European directives' that, with these directives, they are increasingly violating the fundamental principles of the functioning of the European Union. What does it mean to put the bank under the control of the so-called relations of business? Or not just the bank. Open up to see what, with an excuse for the expression, illogical wordings exist within these texts. Who will check business relations and what will check business relations? Anyone should know that there is a bank secret, a secret of correspondence of the personal and the official that art. 34 of our Constitution, honourable Members, establishes a secret of personal correspondence? The listed debtors shall be assigned to verify the identification of the customers of the institution concerned. How are you gonna check my I.D.? My I.D. can be checked by the state authorities. It doesn't say inside how to check this identification. In one of the dots, not to quote it right now so I don't waste time, it says that other means can also verify the identification. But here in the fundamental rights of citizens it is written that no one can be monitored, filmed, checked his correspondence. This Law, as proposed at the moment, is on the verge of violating the Constitution and the fundamental rights of citizens, and in this case it does not matter whether it is a European directive, the European Parliament or any other extrasterior authority. The rights of Bulgarian citizens are our obligation, honourable Members of the National Assembly, and when we adopt such texts, we must be fully aware of the consequences of them. A few questions about the scope of the Law. He's ridiculous. Take a look at the list of debtors who have to deal with these checks. It does not have an institution to import two or three leva from the citizens and which is not listed on this list. Take a look at the levels for which gathering information on business relations is required. I strongly object to gathering information about the business relations of citizens. How will information about business relations be collected? More murder for the private initiative I regret that the Socialist Party should hold such lectures for a bigger murder for the private initiative than I can see. One of the principles of free competition in the market involves that I have the right, or that any citizen has the right to secrecy in this regard. What does it mean for the bank to gather information about my business relations? Where is this information going? Is he going to my competitors? Does the Bank appear to be a competitor to me because it is very clear that through related companies a huge part of the financial enterprises in Bulgaria control a bunch of other sectors that are outside the financial sector. What are we giving them, excuse me? I'm not talking about the repressive authorities of the state. Is there little monopoly at the time of the banks and the financial institutions that we provide them with this data, customer information, individuals, business relations, the right to control correspondence? Where's the Constitution going? At the movies, with an apology for the slang. very please, before further consideration of this Law is made here, I would like to clarify that I will expressly vote against. This is an absurd bill, anti-constitutional. I would also like to draw attention to the name of the Law in the end. Dear colleagues, there cannot be a Law with a name and a title in which there is slang. What does money laundering mean?! But, please, I'm asking for money, a law against money laundering! If those who write the directives are not particularly literate, the Bulgarian people have created alphabet and writing with several other peoples. I can offer you several versions of the draft title. It could be about measures against legalisation of illegal income, or something like that. I suppose there's a Legal Directorate here in the National Assembly, they'll give us options. That's bullshit: money laundering. Sorry, let's vote on this thing! So how do we vote it?! What does it mean to launder money?! Please, it's a legislative body! What does it mean to include in the Law the concept of the prominent political personalities? Are we going to vote on this idiocy too?! Who are prominent, what does that mean? [[Noise, lines and excitement by BSP for Bulgaria.]] The list listed the members of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian National Bank. First of all, they are not political personalities, what are they looking for in this Law? On top of that, they also recorded members, heads and deputy heads of international organisations. They fall under another jurisdiction, how will this Law apply to them?! Excuse me, this is an extremely weak piece. [[Laughter and excitement from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , exclusively from the title to the last letter! I don't see how a man can even hold back on this bill? He just has to compromise with his conscience, with the Constitution, and with everything he can to support this elementary, contentless composition of some eurocinovism, which has indeed taken us from the periphery for some to whom they can push any texts. I call for reason and to reject the Bill. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u37	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u38	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I understand your emotions. I myself was emotional, speaking on the proposed bill. But it occurred to me that you think there are unthinkable texts. Do you think the importers are gullible, Mr. Zablyanov? Do you think this is an accident? That's my specific line to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u39	Any other lines? Would you like to take advantage of your right to dodge? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Yankov, I cannot distinguish between the two motives when these texts are written. Often, human foolishness borders on malice. Usually malicious people, when preparing some texts, they are also stupid. [[Laughter and excitement from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So I can't say what's the lead in drawing up these texts, or the ordinary incompetence of the officials in the institutions that sell them to us. [[Heckling]] It has nothing to do with terrorism. Well, nothing to do with it, just so we're clear on that. It's a political nonsense. This is an attempt to impose control on the initiative, on the freedoms of Bulgarian citizens, on the freedom of thought of the Bulgarian political activists and institutions, on the parties in Bulgaria and on all our public and political life in the form of this. I want to tell you that Decree 56 has given more freedom for a business initiative than what we are currently doing. Have either of you read this decree? Open it up and see what they're giving people. They gave people the right to drive a cab without having a cab in there, and they thought a mile away. Do you remember? Do you remember?! This was then given by the Central Committee of the Bulgarian Communist Party that anti-market party gave people the right to calculate the kilometers in the mileage taxi and collect the amount without giving you a note. That was socialism. In the big market here, which marries and triumphs, you cannot spend 3 BGN without reporting to the European Commission. What kind of private initiative is this, fellow Members? What kind of private initiative?! She's devastated. The private initiative is crushed in the name of trans-state, transnational and supranational financial and other bodies and institutions that are sniffing people like us and draining their last dimes into their pockets. The last of the pennies! [[GERB lines.]] I'm talking about the Bulgarian citizens, I don't mean you specifically. Unfortunately, this is the kind of economic order we create. This is not a security law. This law relates to the economic activity of the state, to economic policy, to financial policy, and I do not see why it should be the Internal Security Commission, order and so on. These authorities already have too much power. We're constantly dealing with their wiretap systems here every two or three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u41	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u42	Thank you so much for reminding me, Mrs. Dukova. To you, the warmest feelings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u43	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. To speak, the people representative Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! However, for clarity, the bill introduces euro-directives that are mandatory. If the previous one, the previous ones want Bulgaria to leave the European Union, there are legal ways. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria, lines.]] Invoking a referendum there is already an example in the UK to pronounce the Bulgarian citizens to leave the European Union. This is what I learned from the statement.You see, this Law was introduced by some officials, Bulgarian officials, mentioned the European officials, about the European Parliament. Eurodirections are being introduced, honourable Members! Challenge... Yesterday, too, there was an issue. Invoke a referendum. Collect signatures Bulgaria to leave the European Parliament. If you're going to do it, you can do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u45	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let's be serious. Let's not do another show. Because you're talking about what our country does, how we obey the European Union, how we obey all international treaties...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u47	To Mr. Lazarov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u48	...there is, Mr. Lazarov, money laundering as a crime against the financial system. There is a legal framework and a definition of money laundering and it dates back historically from 1962, even 1612 in England. The other one, there's an international legal framework. The issue of measures against money laundering is regulated in several international legal acts to which Bulgaria is a country. I can tell you, the 1961 Single Convention on Narcotic Drugs. In force in the Republic of Bulgaria since 1968; Convention on Psychotropic Substances of 1971. In force in the Republic of Bulgaria since 1976; UN Convention on the Fight against Trafficking in Drugs and Psychotropic Substances, adopted in Vienna in 1988. In force in Bulgaria since 1992 Please be serious! I know how important it is to make a populist statement. Let's be responsible and based on facts, on definitions. Mr. Lazarov, please don't go into the tone of those who provoke us to have a meaningless debate because our country needs this legislation. All those who have accepted it in historical terms see, we are talking about 1968, 1978, 1998, 1992. Of course, there are many more, if you want, I will take you specifically to you, Mr. Zablyanov, because you have treated the Bulgarian MPs disrespectfully, to the Bulgarian institutions and you have separated yourself from the European institutions. [[Replys and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We've been watching this since yesterday, when we had the debate, in everything we discussed here. [[Private applause from GERB.]] If BSP really takes this direction, just say: Bulgaria should be oriented east. But we will not support and the Bulgarian citizens will not support you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u49	Second line, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u50	Mr. Lazarov, I have a question for you. You are right that there should be a referendum because when Bulgaria entered NATO and the European Union, there was no referendum. No one asked the Bulgarian people whether they agreed to enter NATO and the European Union. Perhaps you are right that it is a little late, but there should be such a referendum and the sovereign of the Bulgarian people should decide on this important issue, because we will really know where Bulgaria is then. Thank you. [[Replications, noise, voices in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Is there a third line? Mr. Lazarov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman! With regard to the NATO entry referendum, yes, this is a form that could then be applied. I suggest to my colleague that he sit in the group of Ataka-kun because it was their idea. I understand that you are developing the Ataka's thesis. It's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u53	I voted against it when there was no attack.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u54	May I continue, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u55	Please, Mr. Pawnov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u56	With regard to referendums, yes, it is indeed a form. For example, in Switzerland, it was a referendum on whether to buy the plane "Gripen" or not. It was rejected. So there was a referendum on Belene, but... Locking up, honourable Members, we really need to take this seriously. Referendum....... challenge it, Bulgaria to leave the European Union. I suppose you'll be bringing your political dividends from all this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u57	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Personal explanation please, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Tsvetanov! Being a people of extremes is known, isn't it? I won't have to argue it from the stands. I do not see why, based on the discussion of a bill, you draw general conclusions about the civilisational choice of countries, nations and societies?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u59	That's what the coworker said.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u60	The line is not a line, it's a personal explanation from me to you. And the colleague, if you want to talk to him, you have options. I do not see the grounds when discussing a bill in a clear violation and limiting the constitutional and civil liberties of the Bulgarian citizens, you have to come up with arguments that are from the time of the third international. I don't even want to comment on that. In my speech, I referred to the texts in the proposed Bill and nothing more. As for the notion of money laundering, the fact that it is written and recorded in some international acts, including the United Nations, does not mean that it is not slang. I think you can ask any specialist in Bulgarian language and literature to tell you what this is, any specialist who deals with civil and any other right.... what does it mean for money? Don't be fooled by the society outside of Bulgaria... [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Please ask Mr. Ivanov to restrain himself.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u62	So by generalizing the civilization choice of the state, do not pass laws that are anticonstitutional.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. If you'd like to make a statement, please, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u64	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will accept Mr. Tsvetanov's invitation to stick to the facts, and they are the following when it comes to what is called the slang of money laundering. Dear colleagues, according to official information from Eurostat and the US National Statistical Agency for the last year, hidden money in offshore areas of the European Union is a trillion euros. In the U.S. there are one trillion and nine hundred million U.S. dollars around two trillions. At the same time, illegally, of course, the hidden taxes within the European Union are around EUR 160 billion, according to Eurostat data, while legal loopholes have been found, gaps in tax legislation to hide more than EUR 50 to 70 billion. By collecting these numbers.. what lies inside the European Union, colleagues, the number 260 billion euros is obtained according to official information about the European Union, and in offshore zones a trillion euros. That is, the difference, honourable Members, is EUR 740 billion in favour of offshore areas. The question arises: how long will some representatives of the European Commission keep us busy with small-time and chasing crumbs? In the European Parliament with European Commission ministers, I had the honour and pleasure of commenting on economic policy. I proposed to my colleagues, I also made a presentation of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development that the resolution of so-called money laundering should start not with the retail and Directive No 17, but with the closure of offshore areas. Who created the offshore areas? The world's political and financial elite. Why would they steal and hide their money? While small and medium-sized companies in Bulgaria, in France, in Finland, in Romania fill the budget of the state, the large financial sharks that have purchased much of the political elite of the United States and Europe are dealing with what? It's a small-time thing! Why didn't the Bulgarian Parliament come up with a proposal? Why should we deal with Ivan Ivanov's five levs and not deal with the three trillion euros hiding in offshore areas? Where is the money stolen from Bulgaria, which went out into offshore areas for years returning to Bulgaria, buying assets to which our children and grandchildren should slave? What do you mean?! And here we will discuss the notion of money laundering. Dear colleagues, the European Commission is not doing its job and is pushing directives through which to deal with small-time. In conclusion, I believe that the main direction of combating so-called money laundering and tax evasion is to close the tax haven of offshore areas, a paradise for financial and political sharks and an insult to the European Union's ordinary citizens who pay taxes. Thank you. [[Applause in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u65	Thank you, dear Professor. Gechev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! At today's meeting, the masks fell. We have seen a parliamentary group that has systematically, but has already become more formal today than the European Union has begun to give a edifying tone to the European institutions and to the Member States in the European Union. But no one talks about the past, because I remember when we were sitting on our tails. Our country was not in the European Union then, nor was it in NATO. I remember when my big daughter was born 1995, we were on water mode, we were on electricity mode, and I couldn't buy diapers because they were just missing from the windows in the shops. Do you remember what happened, Mr. Gechev, with the bankruptcy of the banking system 1995-1996? Unfortunately, the lack of political will did not result in retribution and the Bulgarian voters knowing who was responsible for the collapse of their savings, because all these elderly people who today do not receive decent pensions are thanks to everything we experienced at the beginning of democracy. And then we were neither in NATO nor were we in the European Union, and a dollar was 3,000 leva. Just to tell you that today, two BGN is equal to one euro. Today I can tell you that our country has an economic growth and for the first time in 10 years, which I said yesterday, we are today an economically prosperous country and this is thanks to the efforts of Bulgaria as a member of the European Union. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let me just get you back to historical. The credit to enter the European Union 2007 is the then parliamentary majority that was formed and the efforts of all institutions, of all governments. You ruled 2007 and then you were proud that we entered the European Union, and today you say that we should not have entered the European Union. So you have not been sincere to the Bulgarian citizens and in all these years, when you name things, you name them in a way that suits you. Tell me, Mr. Gechev, as a line I am sending you: what happened to the money of Bulgarian taxpayers and Bulgarian citizens? Their savings are just gone. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Tell me who was guilty and what was the fault that our country was not in the European Union? Because if it were in the European Union, this would not have been allowed. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u67	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Professor. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I could not understand because there was nothing in your line about offshore areas and hiding trillions, and you are returning to other historical times which I have already explained to you once. You, Mr. Tsvetanov, and your group, have acknowledged the professionalism of the Minister of Finance of the Government Videnov, who is currently the deputy governor of BNB. You have travelled around the world, Mr. Tsvetanov, and you voted as Deputy Minister of Finance of Videnov Mr. Dimitar Radev, highly qualified, who is the head of BNB. You voted as Minister of Finance and Deputy Minister of Finance, who is part of the Finance Ministry's team. [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] So you recognize this high professionalism. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The bank robbery has nothing to do with the government, none of them, as the Constitution has led the banks by another institution. But since you're asking questions about where the money went, the money went to some amazing, unheard, good mom and dad-in-laws who buy six good boys' apartments. Thank you. [[(Wurthy applause from BSP for Bulgaria) (Bravo!) Bravo! Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u69	Well, Mr. Gechev! Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u70	They don't have time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u71	They have one minute. [[Noise and lines.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u72	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, we will not allow you for the second time to impress the Bulgarian society that BSP is an anti-European party. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] You did it during the election campaign like this... [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] ... when, in the election campaign, I was saying, 'We will not allow ourselves to be second-hand in the European Union,' you said, 'These will pull us out of the European Union. Today, the same sentence is pronounced by Mr Juncker and says: "We will not allow Bulgaria to be at second speed in Europe. When we said, "We don't want to eat second-grade food," you said: "Here are the anti-Europeans." Today, who is fighting the second-quality food battle for Eastern Europe against Western Europe? Mr Juncker. That is, your claims from the election campaign: "They will pull out Europe" today as policies are being implemented by the right. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Have you heard any of us say that we are not going to vote on this law because we want to take Europe out? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u73	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u74	Don't manipulate people!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u75	Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u76	Our thesis is that behind the European directive we support, you insert texts that are unconstitutional for Bulgaria. We will not allow you to destroy the Bulgarian state structure by hiding behind a European directive. We have made this law very clear to you at first reading we will support it because of European rules, but at second reading we will reject the texts with which...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u77	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u78	... by violating the Bulgarian Constitution, you deprive Bulgarian citizens of their legal rights.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u79	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u80	What's more clear than telling you? And stop manipulating this anti-European theme because I don't have time, but many examples I can give which is the anti-European party. I'll take... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u81	Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u82	Mr. Chairman, you broke the rules because that wasn't on the subject. The other thing that is, you have asked this tone to come out at the possible time for the debate on legislation and the accusation you have made to the European institutions that we are strictly following their instructions. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] I'm doing a procedure, I'm not talking to you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u83	Please don't call!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u84	Mr. Chairman, please! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u85	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u86	Just so you know, you have declared today that your entry into the European Union was not fair. That's what Mr. Pawnov said. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] He said there should have been a referendum. He said it. He is a representative of your parliamentary group. [[Applause from GERB. Members of the DPS shall enter the Chamber.]] From this point of view, of course we have to name him. And here it turns out that the biggest Euro-Atlantic parties, these are everyone else except you. Why, then, Mrs. Ninova, when you speak of all these sins, do you not support the majority system? [[Applause from GERB.]] Why didn't you support him? Why did you not support a referendum that the Bulgarian citizens gave and they were over 2.5 million? From this point of view, let us be honest. You have not complied with the referendum, but are constantly talking about a referendum. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u87	Thank you. To speak, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would nevertheless suggest that we return to the Bill, if you don't mind, because the last half hour is being talked about anything but the Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u89	More than that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u90	I wanted it to be softer. Dear colleagues, why this debate, why is the debate distorted over a bill that is harmonious? That's the first question we need to ask ourselves. The reason is a very lasting trend recently when we harmonise directives, such as this Bill on measures against money laundering, which must harmonise the requirements of Directive 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015, and suddenly the House is raging as a hive and we come to our membership in the European Union. The reason is a single trend that has been noticed in legislation lately, for directives not to be harmonised in the way they are given, but to go far beyond them. What is this, a stretch, self-destruction, what exactly does this approach mean in legislation? It's not just this case. We are about to see the amendments to the Social Security Code. There you will see the perversions of the directives, of the regulations, of all European legislation. I took note of the committee when there was blitz control of the Minister of Finance. On the occasion of this bill, I also tell you this: the harmonisation of this directive also goes far beyond the directive itself. Why, I ask? To come from the Council of Ministers, those who represent the bill, those who have done it, and explain why. Is there anything more we need than other European countries, or do we have some secrets here to think about using the European directives to push our cop tricks? [[Applause from DPS.]] Or should we use the directives in the legislation to hit certain sectors of the business or certain people in the business? The DPS Parliamentary Group will be uncompromising from now on on. We read the directive and read the difference. And whoever made it will come here to explain to the people's representation, to the National Assembly and to the Chamber why he brought us into this match. And you, as a ruling party in this coalition, are bound to follow this process. Because at the end of the day, we're not going to turn into a fair and a circus because of the intentions of a clerk or a ministry or anyone else. Harmonisation of legislation will be as the directive is! Or, if there are changes, they should be a detailed explanation with motives. We of the DPS will support the Bill with this condition. Anything that is not in the directive will not be supported at second reading. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u91	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u92	Thank you. Dear Mr. President, I ask you not to allow this House to create conditions for manipulating parliamentary and public opinion. Bless Mr. Tsvetanov's daughter! The years he said he didn't have money for diapers, he was working in one of the directions of the Cadres at Jorro Yanakiev and he was getting an officer's salary. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u93	He said he didn't have diapers, not that he didn't have money for diapers. Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill on anti-money laundering measures with an inch. No 702-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. Vote 175 MPs: 166 against 1, abstention 8. The bill was passed in the first vote. We are done with the legislative work. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u94	Mr President, honourable Members, in relation to this serious debate which took place in plenary, I propose that the time limit for proposals between first and second readings on the bill be with the maximum period of three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u95	You said it in your statement. Please vote. Vote 161 MPs: for 159, against none, abstention 2. The proposal for a maximum period of three weeks for proposals between the first and second reading of the Bill has been adopted. We continue at 11:00 with parliamentary control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u96	Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 29 September 2017 to 5 October 2017 from: - People's representative Nona Yotova to Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture, about the funds coming into the National Fund of Culture. In accordance with art. 31, para. 1 of the Law on the Protection and Development of Culture should be answered in plenary on 13 October 2017. Written answers for service by: - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev and Yavor Bojankov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; Another answer to a question by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. Again answer to a question by MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski from Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov. Written response from: - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski. Again the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski respond to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. Again, the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev is responsible for the same MPs. Written response from: - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Desislava Kostadinova-Guseva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Ahmed Ahmed Ahmedov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Hasan Ademov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov on a question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Polina Tsankova-Hristova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. We begin by asking the National Representative Ivelina Vassileva and the National Representative Dimitar Boychev about compliance with the provisions relating to fishing capacity and fishing opportunities and correct implementation of the procedures by the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. The question is to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Vassileva, to develop the question. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, our inquiry concerns the maintenance of the Register of Fishing Ships and the correct application of the procedures by the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency. The hypothesis I want to develop before you is this. A fisherman has a boat a four-foot boat, and wishes to fish in a business way. Under the provisions of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, commercial fishing in the waters of the Black Sea and the Danube is carried out by legal persons and sole traders after issuing a permit for business fishing and acquiring the right to absorb resources from fish and other aquatic organisms. There are clear procedures in the Law for the necessary set of documents to be submitted, together with the application submitted by applicants for commercial fishing authorisations. Under the Law, the permit shall be issued within 14 days and, in the event of refusal, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture or an official authorised by him must issue a reasoned order subject to appeal. At the same time, the balance between fishing capacity and fishing opportunities must be ensured. For this, new permits are granted only in the case of spare capacity. In accordance with art. 18a of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, the possibility of terminating the permit to carry out commercial fishing and the certificates issued on the basis of it for the right to carry out commercial fishing are only available if the vessel has not been fishing for two years in a row. The vessels with suspended permits on this basis shall be written off by their own motion from the Register of Fishing vessels and the exempted capacity shall remain in favour of the State and shall be subsequently allocated to fishing vessels wishing to be registered in the Register of the fishing fleet and to acquire the right to fish. In meetings with voters from the Burgas Election Region, we were repeatedly warned that no applications were accepted by the administration of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture on the grounds that no procedure was announced but, at the same time, despite the availability of spare capacity, no procedure was initiated for the redistribution of free capacity. Such a procedure has not been launched for a long time, and according to the regulations it is necessary to start it. To this end, it is necessary to have clarity and who are willing to participate in the procedure. In this regard, our question to you is: what is the reason why the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency is refusing to accept administrative applications, and what will you take to ensure that you ensure the fair redistribution of free capacity by ensuring publicity and transparency of the procedure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u98	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. I give the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests the floor to answer the question within five minutes. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u99	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, dear Mrs. Vasileva, dear Mr. Boychev! Under the Internal Rules for the Organization of Business and Documentmaking in the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency, all input documents shall be registered in the Agency's legal system. With regard to the claim of refusal to accept applications for commercial fishing, I would like to inform you that internal verification of the Agency's documentation has been carried out and no refusal of admission of applications has been found. I'm gonna check it again, because you're saying that they refused to accept at the Office. Moreover, since the beginning of this year, the IRA has issued 129 fixed-term permits for commercial fishing. With regard to the management of the fishing fleet, all Member States of the European Union, including Bulgaria, are obliged to provide the European Commission with annual reports on the balance between the fishing capacity of their fleet and fishing opportunities. In the 2015 and 2016 reports, along with the analysis of the economic, technical and biological indicators of the fishing fleet, the Agency has also provided for measures to adapt the fleet segments for which a structural surplus of capacity is established. The same are included in the Action Plan with regard to unbalanced fleet segments. According to these measures, it is envisaged that in 2017 those vessels which did not fish in 2014 and 2015. The procedure for the write-off of those fishing vessels is ongoing and the exempted capacity will be allocated in accordance with national law. According to the provisions of national law, this is Decree No 54/2006. All vessels used to carry out commercial fishing in Black Sea waters or transport of fishery products must be registered in the Register of fishing vessels. The entry shall be made after the provision of spare capacity, which is the obligation of the owner of the fishing vessel, and after entry into the Register of Ships led by the Executive Directorate of the Sea Administration. In this sense, the entry of fishing vessels by providing spare capacity is a permanent process which does not necessarily require a procedure for the allocation of spare capacity. Until now, free capacity allocation procedures have been conducted when there has been sufficient spare capacity. What I mean is that the free gross tonnage expressed in gross tonnes should be sufficient to provide the corresponding power expressed in kilowatts and vice versa. On the other hand, the capacity allocation procedure currently taking place in 2016 is under judicial review. In the event that the court revokes the Order for the allocation of spare capacity from 2016, it is necessary that the Agency has one available to be granted to the applicants without prejudice to the rights of persons who have received capacity under the procedure. We are talking about 2016. It should be borne in mind that under European legislation for Bulgaria there is a certain level of fishing capacity that cannot be exceeded. In order to ensure transparency and publicity in the allocation of fishing capacity, on 21 September 2017 proceedings for the issue of a common administrative act for the allocation of fishing capacity were initiated. Notifications and draft order of the Executive Director for the allocation of fishing capacity are published on the IRA website. Interested parties shall thus be given the opportunity to participate in the proceedings by means of written proposals and objections. The Agency shall undertake to ensure the necessary publicity and transparency of the procedure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Two supplementary questions follow within two minutes. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u101	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Obviously it makes sense to ask questions because I see that there is already a procedure in the IRA for greater transparency of capacity redistribution. Unfortunately, Mr. Secretary, I don't know who let you down. Indeed, there are such cases of non-acceptance of documents and of returned people. We can give you the coordinates of these people because they were on our reception days. From there we have their coordinates and we know what the situation is. Unfortunately, there is opaqueness, and our question is precisely in this regard. Can't a waiting register be made with accepted documents and free capacity respectively to avoid this subjective factor? People come back with a presumption that they will almost go and find free capacity from others who have been in this Register, who have given up to benefit from any advantage. And really handling this information through the IRA is going in an absolutely opaque way. Our question is precisely this: to make two registers with spare capacity, respectively, with those who want to register such vessels for commercial fishing, and to know each other. Even if there are rules, if there is to be first in time, first in law, but this is a clear procedure, because we see that at this point there is no such procedure. I say again, this question may have caused the fact that there is movement in this direction, but there is really much more to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u102	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister Porozhanov, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u103	Thanks again. Certainly makes sense of every question asked in the Parliamentary Hall. Confirmation of this is also the previous question from a month ago about fishing logbooks. The methodology to be related to the whole process of dropping the entry, fishing logbooks, sampling methodology and so on is currently under way and is being finalised, which is related to the whole process of dropping the entry, the fishing logbooks, the sampling methodology and so on, for which I thank you. I make a commitment to have a clear explanatory campaign to be made by both the Ministry and the Agency in terms of free capacity, the allocation of free capacity, so that it is clear to absolutely all interested and so that there is no element of speculation with information. With regard to the waiting register, let me take a look, as the Regulation settles these issues, whether such a thing is envisaged and whether such a thing is necessary, provided that the rules should be clear and there must be an explanatory campaign. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u104	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Dear colleagues, who asked questions, have the opportunity to express an attitude. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Porozhanov, I thank you for the personal commitment you have made: to check the way procedures are conducted and to ensure the principles of transparency, equal access and equality of all candidates who are willing to participate in the procedure. Perhaps the other subject that you have addressed in relation to the fishing logbooks gives rise to a really more detailed review of the legislation, because I am not convinced that this requirement of the European directive may have been some kind of omission in the development of the law. It turns out that all fishermen who have boats up to 10 meters are proud captains of fishing vessels. All boats up to 10 meters are fishing vessels and are part of the Bulgarian fishing fleet. These masters of fishing vessels have to fill out fishing logbooks. They are quite bulky indeed as documentation, and there they must record data not only on catches made but also on time, on sea currents, the coordinates of the regions where they fish. These are requirements that certainly do not stem from European legislation. In this sense, I am counting on the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests with the competent directorate, respectively the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, to really come up with well thought-out proposals for improving legislation and clearly regulating small-scale business fisheries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u106	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. We come to a question from the National Representative Veska Marinova Nencheva on the conservation of the pine forest over the town of Karlovo. Here you are, Ms. Nencheva, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u107	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister, colleagues! Today few know what the Balkan is above Karlovo on both sides of the river. I will use quotes from the book of one of the mayors of the town of Karlovo, Vasil Alexandrov, who says: "Until 1911 this is a steep, naked and crumbly squid, on which the goats climb to make it even more revealing and to make it even more crumbly. Today this sipei does not exist because it is covered with densely wooded pines and acacias of an area of 1805 decares. In 1910 he was struck by unhappiness: a flood of rain was pouring down, falling down and clogging the river, abundant and lush water, which came out of her bed and dragged many houses, endangering the dry factory of Evlogi Georgiev. To prevent this disaster in 1910 a second section of forestry was created in the city and the first was in Kazanlak. Notice, the National Assembly grants a budget of 20 thousand. lv. The afforestation became particularly difficult... had to be on the hands and with animals to climb soil, the workers tied themselves to keep from falling off the rocks. Unfortunately, in recent years, much of the pines have become sick and progressive wither. From what do you say? At the same time, the Ministry does not take any effective measures to save the pine forest over Karlovo. My question is: what urgent measures will the Ministry in charge of saving and healing the pine forest over the city of Karlovo take?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u108	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Dear Minister Porozhanov, you have the floor for a response within three minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Nencheva! Undoubtedly, the issue of forest diseases may be the third or fourth time we debate it in plenary, we will debate it many more times. I would like, first of all, to say a few words about what is happening in general, of course, then I will answer specifically for the area above Karlovo. The poor health condition of coniferous forests in the last two or three years is an intensive process and a problem that is observed throughout the country. Given the importance of the problem of my inauguration as a minister, a meeting was held with scientists from the forest college, representatives of enterprises, municipalities, all interested parties to seek immediate solutions. As early as early as June, we introduced weekly monitoring of inventory failures and the implementation of wood absorption activities. Nevertheless, on 1 September 2017, I created a Crisis Headquarters involving both forestry and state-owned enterprises, regional governors. We invite the scientific community, I have the pleasure to invite MPs, including last time there are and attended here: Mr. Gechev, Mr. Apostolov, I also invited Mrs. Dora Yankova, who I very much respect, we have debated the topic because of the Smolyan region, I hope the next meetings will be able to attend. Of course, everyone would be welcome to know on the spot exactly what measures are envisaged and how is the movement as a whole of all the problematic, diseased forest volume of territory. As a result of the mobilized efforts, amendments were made within a short period of time to the current legal framework to facilitate the administrative process in the conduct of sanitary and forced logging. Precautions have been created through economic incentives to attract additional resources from labour and equipment, which will accelerate the rate of absorption of damaged wood. From the beginning of the year until the end of September, nearly 1 million were obtained. Three hundred thousand. cubic meters of damaged coniferous wood, which represents 37% of the quantity of wood affected. In the state forests 40% of the total dry 2 million has been absorbed. 900,000. cubic meters of wood. Particularly for the area above the town of Karlovo are affected egoistic cultures of black pine, created by afforestation from the beginning to the middle of the last century, currently the same are between 50 and 100 years old. The purpose of these forests was anti-erosion, to strengthen the steep and rocky southern slopes of the Balkan Mountains, when at the beginning of the 20th century they were almost completely deforested and with enhanced erosion processes, as you mentioned. In 2016 there were signals of damage from the Coroyads on an area of 6 decares in the area of the created Apostolic Forest, located next to the town of Karlovo. Observations have been made by specialists of the Lesatre Station, the city of Plovdiv, the Regional Forest Directorate of Plovdiv, including the Forest Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. On the part of the state-owned agricultural holding, the actions necessary for carrying out the activities planned under the forestry plan and approved plan-extractions for sightseeing and sanitary logging throughout the region were undertaken. At the beginning of 2017 all damaged wood was absorbed, in the amount of 69 cubic meters. In the present year 2017 inventory of mushroom disease damage, outside the corrode, on a total area of 654 decares, the wood concerned is less than 5% of the total stock of the plantations, which is within the natural wasteland of the forest. Practice shows that under favorable weather conditions, temperatures and precipitation, mushroom-infected pine forests overcome stress and recover. If drying continues, i.e. climate conditions are not favourable, action will be taken to absorb damaged wood in order to prevent it being wasted. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Ms. Nencheva, you have the opportunity to reply within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u111	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I am listening to this statistic and the chronology of what you have said as actions, listen to carlovers, and I am sure that this helplessness, which sounds from your words, is hurting them with anger. Because despite the measures you say are taken, the forest over Karlovo, and I am sure that in many other cities it goes, dies without being able to implement specific measures to save it. If we're going to rely on the forest's ability to overcome these fungal diseases on its own, what is our particular power for people to be satisfied with concrete actions of the Ministry? I would say that I very much hope that the central government will not remain indifferent to the destruction of the pine forest over Karlovo, and I do not believe you to allow after a century of afforestation by people all of this to go as a great loss, because in a significant one for Karlovians and for Bulgaria the 180 years since the birth of Levski have poured millions of money into the city for activities that were, of course, of great importance, but to destroy the forest that is important for the climate, for the soil, for the life of Karlovtsi, is a great responsibility that the Ministry must bear in its actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u112	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u113	Thank you. I certainly think you've brought in a little more emotion to be heard by Karlovians, but there's nothing wrong with that. I invite you, Ms. Nencheva, to the next meeting I will personally invite you to attend, where, including the entire team, which I just mentioned, we will discuss the case of Karlovo in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u114	Thank you for the presence in today's parliamentary control of Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. We continue with answers to questions and questions to Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. He will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev Petrov and Diana Dimova Savateva about the security of the Bulgarian border. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u115	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The security of the Bulgarian border was one of the most controversial issues during the first parliamentary session. The topic is directly related to the construction of the fence facility, to the accompanying infrastructure and to the integrated surveillance system, which for me is a complete project to perform 100% of its function this fence facility. During the construction period, the hot issues were related to the necessity of the facility, its quality and the deadlines for construction. The one hundred and twenty-seven kilometers of partition facility provided for the Burgas region was fully completed in June. Me and my colleagues were on the spot. We met the entire facility because we went through the entire facility, the constructed adjacent infrastructure. I can assure you that we do have a wonderful facility. Nature, however, does not stand still. Meanwhile, grasses and shrubs have grown on both sides of the fence, and some of the built shafts and drainage facilities are clogged by deposits, after the summer floods, road infrastructure is affected. My question to you, Minister, is: how does the existing partition facility affect the migratory flow? Is there any traffic diversion data based on this built facility? What is the vision of the Ministry of Interior for maintaining the facility, how should it continue to be operated from the point of view of the institution responsible for the subsequent maintenance of this facility? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u116	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u117	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mrs. Savateva, Mr. Boychev! The construction of the Engineering Obstruction Facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border has been initiated as an additional measure to control the crisis situation resulting from the increased migratory pressure on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria since 2013. The same has not only a deterrent effect in terms of attempts to illegally enter the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, but has led to a significant reduction in the security costs of the state border by reducing the number of seconded forces and the means necessary for this. For the territory of Burgas District, there are 126 km, I round about 66 km, along the land border and 59 km along the river border with the Republic of Turkey. The building has a strong deterrent effect from the beginning of the year to the present, according to our information. Turkish border authorities have detained 381 persons for 2017, trying to illegally cross the state border. For comparison, 2016 2 194, nearly five times less already. In the border area, 410 persons were detained in 2017, seven times less than those for 2016. "3 049." You see what a big difference and what great efficiency the facility has, at least by this indicator. With regard to the thus outlined situational picture, the migration pressure continues to be the largest at the Bulgarian Turkish border in the areas of responsibility of the Border Police Department (Bi-Svilengrad) and the Border Police Department (Milko Tarnovo). There are also isolated cases and attempts to move vessels with migrants from Turkey across the Black Sea. The ultimate goal, of course, is not Bulgaria, we have reacted there. As a result of the completion of the construction of the engineering obstruction facility along the entire Bulgarian-Turkish border, including in river sections in 2017, there was a shift of the main migration flow by sea from the Republic of Turkey to the Greek islands in the Aegean Sea, despite the presence of NATO ships there had an operation. The engineering impeding facility along the Bulgarian Turkish border is built so that in most part it falls within the scope of the system which you referred to as an integrated surveillance system through which additional control is carried out, apart from the broadcasts or placed border-police units at its distance. As regards the quality of the engineering obstruction facility, it should be noted that it corresponds to the pre-designed tasks of the Directorate-General for Border Police and to the requirements of the projects developed by the respective district governments. According to Decree No 55 of March 2015 of the Council of Ministers, the regional governments have the commitment to a 5-year guarantee or guarantee maintenance of this facility. However, this support will end with this, does not concern damage caused by attempts to pass it, or otherwise violate the integrity of this engineering obstruction facility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva, to ask up to two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u119	Madam President, Mr Minister, thank you for your input. Particularly impresses the highly reduced flow of illegal refugees who managed to enter the country in 2017 compared to 2016, but I will comment on this a little later. It is important for me to clarify something that relates to the so-called obstruction facility. As you yourself said, Mr. Minister, the fence, as we often call it, is not the only facility, it is only an element of the overall system. Therefore, my first supplementary question relates to: what is to be done in the completion of the overall integrated surveillance system? I mean, if you could, of course, tell me which parts of the border are covered with sensor systems and video surveillance systems? Where is this still going to happen? What are the reasons why it didn't happen and is there a delay in public procurement? As far as I'm concerned, there's been such a delay, has this problem been resolved? And the second supplementary question is that Bulgaria is not alone in guarding our border with Turkey. As we all know, I even think today is the day, just a year ago European Border Police opened up as a structure that was present in Bulgaria and on this line throughout the year there were police officers from different European countries. What is the presence of European Border Police, in Bulgaria I mean, and in what way did its footage help guard the border? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Minister Radev, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Sawateva, at the beginning of the answer to your question, I said that this facility is part of what we do along the border. It's the mechanical barrier, so to speak. I told you how helpful it was, and you heard the numbers. What else needs to be done? Of course, there are such public information, two such integrated information systems are built, with which we monitor the border before the facility itself is done. I am establishing, and surely this is a public secret, if we go back in time, that there is no particular synchronization between the construction of the obstruction facility now and then the building facility that started years before that. They're actually two facilities, and I'm going to try to say what can be said in the public domain. One is from Captain Andreevo to Lesovo. Then another information monitoring system was built, which includes the areas from Lesovo to Rezovska river. These systems have been built since 2012 and... I've answered that question, and I remember some of them don't get the support they need after that. There's a facility built, it works in a certain period of time, there's warranty time. These warranty deadlines for the first part of the facility I mentioned have expired. No money has been paid for a number of reasons. Now we resume this with public procurement. For the second part of the part I pointed out, this facility is leaking, I think, even these days, literally this month. And we've got a new public procurement service. That's where we keep it. Where they cover these information systems that help us protect the border, I won't be able to say, but to say this: imagine the entire border from Captain Andreevo to Rezovska river. Where the places were before there was such an engineering facility vulnerable, and there they were, these systems were placed, so generally speaking. Now I'm going to add to what I'm going to finish, so we can get even better control with that 160 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, which gave us and extended the deadline until the end of 2018 to absorb them, will be further upgraded and the places where there is no or where we now find that there is an increased influx or pressure of migrants will be placed additional systems of radar systems, surveillance systems, cameras and so on. That's what I can tell you. Now for Frontex, the answer to your second question. The name of Frontex is the organization. Yes, they help us, the number is, for example, this year, over 1,500 representatives of Frontex, i.e. from other countries participated here. Soon I gave such information about a Dutch MP, a colleague of yours who blamed us for being inhumane at the border and so on, there were remarks and I remember the numbers. There we even said that nearly 30% of these people in one case at the Bulgarian-Turkish border, 10% of those colleagues from other countries are from Dutch. They're from the Netherlands. They're involved, too. The largest group and the biggest help is from Romania, I do not know whether it is understandable or that is normal. There are other countries. I must say that they are very helpful, including with quality, good information, objective information, as they are not among the ranks of our Border Police. And we're very pleased with that. We're glad she was found here. This was a recognition for Bulgaria, Frontex opened its new agency on the new regulations on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Who will express their attitude to the answer? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u123	Madam President! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I would say again that there were some quite interesting numbers in what you said and the specific, which I hope will also be disclosed by the media, because I think it is important that a topic was very popular during the first session of parliament, namely the construction of the partition facility, the interest in it continue, and that it continue in an objective way. Not to mention only the problems that always exist when working, which always exist when a particular activity is carried out, but also to take into account the effect of what has been done. In my opinion, the figures that have been disclosed show that the effect of the partition facility and the accompanying system has and I suppose that periodically such information will be exported, because people need to have information, to be properly informed that it is actually working in this direction for border guards and that indeed, when something was built and it was given solid amounts, it made sense. I will also repeat what my colleague Boychev said that we had the opportunity to go on the ground and see what was built. In the end, my impressions were not only from the fence itself, but mostly from the accompanying infrastructure, because it is a guide road, it is a road that passes along the line of the entire partition facility, as well as, of course, drainage systems that allow the entire system to exist and function normally. And in this plan, I'd like to say something very important. It's a stage in securing border guards. You have to think about what's going to happen from here on out. And just one sentence, I will express my colleague's personal opinion as well, as there is a delay in some of the processes, in some of the orders, we think it is more appropriate to think about easing procedures, as happened with the construction of the border, so that the sensor systems can be built faster and maintenance can happen, because I doubt that the district governments have the capacity to do this themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. We continue with a question from the National Representative Petar Boykov Vitanov concerning checks on the Black Sea resorts and complexes. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! During this summer tourist season, especially in the resorts on our southern Black Sea coast, numerous checks were carried out by the competent state authorities aimed at protecting the rights, interests and lives of the summering Bulgarian and foreign citizens. I, of course, support these checks and hope they increase the quality of the Bulgarian tourist product and the image of our resorts. Some of them also received extensive media coverage, especially those in which your colleagues from the Council of Ministers took part. However, I didn't read, heard or saw any checks under art. 8, para. 3 and 4 of the Child Protection Act for this are there any unaccompanied children between 14 and 18 years of age in public places after 22.00 p.m. According to this Law and Article. 6, you, Minister, are a body of child protection. Therefore, I ask you to answer my question: Have there been checks on the presence of unaccompanied children between 14 and 18 years after 22.00 in public places in the Bulgarian Black Sea resorts during the past resort season? What are the results of these? And if they weren't, why is the Child Protection Act broken? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u126	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Come in for an answer, Minister Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vitanov! Checks have been carried out, of course, we haven't broken the law. The statistics on the checks carried out for unaccompanied minors over 14 years and not over 18 years after 22.00 during the active tourist season in the period from the beginning of May to the end of August of this year on the territory of I have divided them into three, the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Varna, are as follows. Inspections carried out s 77, checked sites s 321, identified unaccompanied minors over 14 years after 22.00 p.m. 31, issued acts establishing an administrative infringement. 31. Similar data for inspections carried out for unaccompanied persons over 14 years of age and not over 18 years after 22.00 hours from the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Burgas during the active tourist season in the period May Similar data from 1 June to 29 September 2017 for four months of this period. The dates for the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior have been changed little............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 45, para. 2 s 4 are 24 pcs; checked drinking facilities from the facilities. s 158. Law violations have not been established in Dobrich. During the summer tourist season of the units of the single establishment such is the terminology, the tasks are reduced daily to carry out such checks in drinking and entertainment facilities for the presence of minors, without chaperoning after 22.00. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u128	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, dear Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u129	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you, Minister, for your reply, although I can honestly tell you that from the statistics you have submitted, it has become clear that only 5 violations have been detected in two areas of Burgas and Dobrich during the entire active season, which seems to me to be some form of formalism in the checks. The control of noise, the weight of portions, tax evasion and others is undoubtedly important, but it seems more important to protect the rights and lives of children, Bulgarian and foreign citizens. By the way, I spent a few days on Sunny Beach this summer, and I have to tell you that there is definitely no climate that spares children. I am puzzled that only five cases of violations have been detected, because there have been hundreds of reports in the European and Russian media about children, alcohol users, tobacco products and even drugs on Bulgarian Black Sea resorts. Moreover, there are several deaths of children only this year. This not only harms the image of our tourism and resorts, but also undermines our country's overall assessment as a member of the European Union. In practice, this is the civilization choice of the interests of the child above all else! As a politician and as concrete actions, I hope this will happen in the Republic of Bulgaria as the winter season is approaching. It's practically your responsibility as well, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. That was your line. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vitanov, thank you for your question and for your attention. These checks are not like those noise checks or others, they are a little more delicate. I will not spread much in the answer for these reasons at least because it is about children. You must understand, if you've been there, it's very difficult, or how to say, even paying attention when we're checking for violation of a number of other citizens' rights, checking who's small, who's exactly with whom. If you look at para. 4, there is written that the child may not be with the parents, may be with an authorized person and this establishment and this interrogation leads to quite unpleasant situations in the establishments, but we still do. In one you are still right, which I saw and I was impressed by the differences in checks and the violations found in the various Directorates. Consider that there I will personally pay attention and analyze why this happened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. He will answer a question from the National Representative Anton Konstantinov Kutev concerning failure to comply with the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.). Here you are, Mr. Kutev, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u133	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I'll start with that, Mr. Minister, for apologizing somewhat for bringing you back to the same subject we've already talked about. But I think that I wouldn't call it a "Nathysk" but an insistence on the topic. "There is no way it will not produce positive results in the future and I hope that this is our common goal. Let's move on to the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities). We know with you that he was accepted a few years ago and generally some things have been done on him, but many of them have not. It's causing a lot of problems. In my opinion, one of the main problems that I am actually raising this conversation for once again is that I do not know enough who the coordinating body is in this plan. I give my account very well that, in fact, on this plan, I can ask parliamentary control of you because you answer purely legally in the structure of the government. At the same time, coordination on the implementation of the Plan is practically none of your business or it is only part of your job, but there is no one else to do it! I mean, I think there's a principle problem with this plan. The plan has been made for the period 2015 - 2020. You and I know very well that there are a lot of things, but the most important thing is a law on social services, which should have been done and adopted in 2016, and now at the end of 2017, you and I are constantly talking about how we are still working on this plan. That means the administrations of ministries, which are before your inauguration, obviously didn't work there. This, of course, is not the only delay in the Plan, but the reason I saw for myself is that there is no coordinating body. Even if a ministry fulfils the commitments under the Plan, and it concerns at least ten different ministries, in practice the body that needs to coordinate this activity, as far as it is the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, however the same cannot and does not have the powers to influence everyone else or can do so, but indirectly. That is what the question is: where are we with the implementation of the Plan, what are the delays, what are the reasons, and what are we going to do about it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u134	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Dear Minister, you have 3 minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, the development of a law on social services, which is part of the Plan for Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, for which you specifically asked the question, is brought up among the priorities of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, as well as of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria. The drafting of this Bill is laid down in the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. I therefore took not only actions to resume the work on this Bill, but also to conduct consultations with stakeholders. Part of these consultations is holding a public discussion on the main areas of future legislative reform. Specifically: on 21 June 2017 on the Public Consultation Portal of the Council of Ministers and on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy a consultation document on the concept of the Social Services Act was published for public consultation. The consultation document was developed on the basis of the concept of the Bill approved in October 2015. A number of comments and suggestions were received during the discussion. Therefore, I also held a special meeting with representatives of non-governmental organizations, social service providers, who were asked to take more time to examine and further develop the concept of the bill and then to proceed to the development of the law itself. You are correct in the fact that this Law, according to the Plan, should have been adopted in 2016, but therefore this has not been implemented. The reasons are different. The Ministry has carried out preparatory work on this Bill, but with the resignation of the government in autumn 2016 the work has practically stopped. So my first task was to resume the actions of this Bill, first by discussing the Concept. It turns out that in these two years, since the Concept was developed, some changes have occurred accordingly. The social service providers raised the question of not being in such a hurry, carefully discussing things and by my order of September 2017 the work of the Working Group for the Development of the Social Services Bill has been resumed. The deadline within which the bill should be ready is 15 October 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u137	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! I think there is a mistake in the administration that has prepared the answer for you, by the way, because you are answering a question that I have asked, but which is not part of today's agenda. It's about the Social Services Act. Either way, you answered him and I will download this question.. He should come out of some of the following controls. I'll draw that question so it doesn't come out, because you answered it. Today's issue, which comes up, is asked earlier and specifically concerns the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the implementation of the Convention. I guess people just made a mistake and gave you an answer to the next question. Never mind, the answer was useful and meaningful. I hope you will speed up work on the Social Services Act, which is very important in this case. I'm returning you to the Action Plan for the disabled. In my opinion, there is a major problem which is why I asked this question. And I'm telling you again, it's the coordinating body. The action plan actually concerns, as I said, ten ministries, and as far as you are a coordinating body, I think this is kind of a problem. The Agency for Disabled Persons can even less be such a coordinating body because it is subject to the Ministry and it has even less powers to unite efforts and there is no larger body that can do so. So here, I think we have a structural problem with the Plan, and that's why it's not being implemented. You know my efforts in the last few months to force both the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and the other ministries to report how far they have come in the design of the Plan precisely because there is no one in the state at the moment. This is the structural problem.. there is no one to coordinate other ministries besides you and I realize that this is a difficulty. That is, my request in this case is to pay particular attention to the opportunities with which the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy can control the implementation of the Plan. Because in practice you know, there are commitments of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, there are commitments of the Ministry of Defense and so on to not list them all. They're not pretty much run by you. Some, however, must force them to fulfill commitments that most of them do not know they have. The plan is signed, from then on this Plan has it somewhere, but for the ministers this is the last hole of the cavalier. Because what does the Secretary of Defense care about some plan to develop people with disabilities!? That's not a subject for him! Someone has to poke him all the time and force him to carry out the plan. Unfortunately, it is you, with the clear awareness that your powers are also limited. My request is to pay attention and do what is necessary to enable this Plan to come into effect and catch up with the deadlines missed not only in relation to the social services law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u138	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u139	There's also a deputy prime minister, Valeri Simeonov, he's the guy...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u140	After all, social services are part of a similar plan.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, I'm sorry if there's been a mistake with the question. The question I answered is actually part of the Action Plan implementing the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. You received at the beginning of September, if I am not mistaken, a detailed report on the implementation of the actions under the Plan. This report was actually collected from the accounts of the institutions responsible for implementing the measures of this Plan. What I can say specifically to your question is that, in fact, by the end of October, there will be a corresponding coordinating body monitoring authority with regard to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The working groups have already completed their work, have proposed and in fact the ministry's commitment is to coordinate more actively the actions to implement this plan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u142	Thank you, Minister Petkov. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Yanchev Gokov concerning abuse of the benefits paid by the National Insurance Institute for temporary disability. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u143	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Minister, in Bulgaria there seems to be many issues of social policy to be solved, but the medical expertise of workability is undoubtedly one of the essential issues to be solved. The subject is important and raises a number of questions, and not only in the current context of the assessment of the right to disability pension, I am referring to permanent disability. In fact, most of the questions have been in the context for a long time and concern the benefits paid by the National Insurance Institute for temporary incapacity. At present, the public is loudly informed about the working groups created and the preparation of changes in terms of the assessment of the right to an invalidity pension. The public is waiting that you, as Minister of Labour and Social Policy, will present your concept in the near future. Therefore, I draw my attention to the payment of temporary incapacity benefits, because from the reporting data of the National Insurance Institute for 2017, if I compare them to 2016, it is clear that the benefits paid for temporary incapacity are increased and this is constantly happening over the years. This can only mean two things: it can either worsen the health status of the Bulgarian or there can be abuse of the hospital. As far as there is no evidence of the first one, there is a high probability of abuse. There have been dozens of cases in the media for arrests who use fake hospitals to alleviate the situation they are in. If these hospital paper scams are isolated cases, let's skip them, but they seem to be a mass phenomenon. This also shows the data of the National Insurance Institute, and the NSI must pay these benefits and all this against the backdrop of the NSI deficit. Mr. Minister, my question to you is an analysis of NSI reporting data for 2017 and an answer to what is your vision, what are the mechanisms you would use, and how will you strengthen control to prevent and prevent irregular payments from NSIs in temporary incapacity benefits? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u144	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, as of 1 January 2015, the data from the hospital sheets issued shall be submitted electronically at the National Insurance Institute, which shall establish and maintain the electronic register of these documents and the decisions on their appeal. In order to be able to issue hospital sheets, the National Insurance Institute provides doctors and hospitals with unique numbers. They shall only be issued to doctors and medical institutions which are registered in the respective NSI territorial unit. When accepting the particulars of the hospital sheets issued, checks shall be made as to whether the entered unique number corresponds to the given number to the doctor or medical establishment that issued it. In carrying out the obligations relating to the exercise of control over the implementation of the Ordinance on the procedure for submission at the National Insurance Institute of the data of the hospital sheets issued and the decisions on their appeal, the NSI manager has established functional requirements, structure and format of the data maintained by the programme products for entry, control, storage, printing, presentation, respectively cancellation of the data, drawing up a reference for issued, respectively cancelled hospital sheets and decisions on their appeal. The aim is not to allow the issue of temporary incapacity hospital sheets which do not comply with the provisions of the Regulation on medical expertise, the Rules on the device and the organisation of work of the medical experts' bodies and the regional files of medical expertise. The acceptance of the data from the hospital sheets issued is also linked to the carrying out of checks relating to pre-defined hospitals for which a significant number of such sheets have been established. The duration of temporary disability is also controlled the period for which hospital sheets are issued in certain diseases. Following these checks and in any case of issued in breach of the provisions of the Ordinance on Medical Expertise Hospital Lists, an appeal shall be made under the order of the Health Act. It should be borne in mind that all hospital records.. the data on which they enter the electronic register of hospital lists and decisions on their appeals are issued by competent authorities of medical expertise, these are doctors and medical advisory committees, in accordance with the regulations in force, and that data cannot be assessed as to whether there is a disease requiring the issue of the hospital list, as well as the time for which they were issued................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Indeed, the number of hospital sheets in recent years has been high and increasing. For 2016 it is 3 million. Ninety-six thousand. 272 pieces. For the period 1 January to 30 September 2017, it is 2 million. 332 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing 278 thousand. 046 pieces, so there's an increase of about 2.33 percent. It should be noted that there is also a positive increase in the number of persons insured for general illness and maternity by about two percent in those years, which explains to some extent the increase in the number of hospital sheets. In view of the number and the means to be paid as monetary benefits for temporary incapacity by the DEA, analyses relating to employers shall be carried out, which shall establish a significant number of workers and employees for whom such documents are presented, with the doctors and medical institutions that issued them. Analysis will also be done on the length of hospital sheets for specific diseases. In order to prepare it, joint action will also be proposed with the Ministry of Health, through its structures, regional and health inspections, as well as with the National Health Insurance Fund in order to strengthen the control of temporary disability benefits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u146	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Gokov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u147	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Dear Minister of Health, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. You seem to have put more emphasis on the analysis of this. I am aware that within three minutes there is no way you can answer such an extensive question that, unfortunately, always exists, but in the years of transition, there is a very serious need for the issue of fake hospital and fake diseases at all. I've been thinking a lot about which to question to you or to the Minister of Health, but I'm glad he's here to know that this problem is there. I asked it to you because the NSI still pays the benefits for temporary disability, and the Fund is in deficit, like all other funds of state social security, but the general opinion of the people is that the state fails to deal with the mass cases of fraud when issuing and paying hospital bills. Not that I want to tell you, but maybe business should get involved in this fight against hospital lists, and not with restrictions, but with incentives, for example, with bonuses to people who don't use hospital sheets. The subject is very delicate because, if restrictions are taken in this direction, they should in no case be such as to affect the insurance rights of insured persons, because the persons pay insurance and when the insurance event really occurs, they should be able to receive adequate compensation to meet this insurance event. It's a very delicate matter. I hope that measures will be taken not to allow the increase in hospital sheets, because it cannot be due to anything other than fake hospital sheets. Thus, let the business go wrong, it will seek its interests, but other insured persons are also being harmed who expect adequate benefits for their insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u148	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Would you like a douche? You don't want to. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. We continue with questions and questions to Nikolai Petrov, Minister of Health. The first question is asked by the National Representative Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova on providing access to outpatient medical care to persons who do not have income and/or personal property to provide them with personal participation in the health insurance process. Here you go, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! As a result of the neoliberal model of the management of our health system, around 4,000 unemployed health-insured Bulgarian citizens remained overboard. By Decree of the Council of Ministers No 17 of 2007, the state took care of the cases when they needed treatment in hospital, but before entering the hospital, they passed as patients of emergency care. There's one niche left. What happens to these people when they are not for admission to the station but need medical services in a hospital aid? Therefore, my first question to you is: will you take action to extend access to the outpatient medical care of these individuals, thus facilitating our emergency assistance? Secondly, it is a very long chain of payments to hospitals to treat such patients. More than that. The person who pays, and now this is the Social Assistance Agency, must control the performance of the service. Therefore, I think that the money for these people should be increased by about two million and five hundred "they are for 2017, and for providing medical services in hospital care. This financial resource should be in the Ministry of Health, respectively the National Health Insurance Fund, and not in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, something we can change in Budget 2018. This is my second question to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u150	According to the Rules of Procedure, the question must be one, clearly and precisely formulated, after which to ask supplementary questions, nevertheless it was put by the stands of the National Assembly. Come in for an answer, Professor. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Dr. Naydenova, you are putting an extremely up-to-date and difficult question to solve. Indeed, if we formulate what every patient would need, he needs medical care, he needs emergency care, he needs hospital care, and why not talk about long-term treatment, about rehabilitation. This category of Bulgarian citizens who have very little property status and fail to pay their health insurance are in fact guaranteed with regard to emergency aid, which is 24 hours, unconditional and regardless of gender, age, religion, property status. It provides assistance to all Bulgarian citizens. With regard to hospital care. You very correctly said that there is a 2007 Ordinance which, unfortunately, is difficult to work because of delays, but I have done my work, I have read it very carefully and I find that there is a clearly written approach and clearly scheduled deadlines for paying for the treatment of this category of patients. Without knowing about the upcoming question from you, I have had several conversations with the social minister and today after parliamentary control we have a meeting with him to comment on the work of this Ordinance, to comment on whether these 5 million are sufficient. lv. Again, they concern hospital care for this category of patients. Your question, however, is focused on outpatient care. These are visits to a doctor, visits to a specialist who is not regulated in the Ordinance and who are about to be decided. They can be resolved either on the way of this Ordinance, by extending it, or by developing an additional new one, but in both cases it will be about allocating funds and forming a fund for it. Here, however, there is an extremely logical and delicate question. Regardless of which party and which government has ruled Bulgaria during the different periods, all of them together and have always struggled to expand and be the maximum adequate coverage of those who pay their health insurance contributions. Whether this will be a good model, a signal to all who have the opportunity and for one reason or another do not do it is something that should undergo serious discussion. And what concerns the size of this fund, I demand its increase and, in this regard, this afternoon, we will have an operational meeting with the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u152	Thank you, Professor. Petrov. Here you go, Dr. Naydenova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u153	Dear Minister, I therefore asked this important question in my opinion, because if you compare the cases for 2015 compared to 2016 of those who have been in hospital, they have decreased by 300, but at the same time the amounts paid to the medical institutions have increased, and many times. So these patients most likely came in severe condition to pay higher amounts in such cases. The reason for the question is that some of the activities of the station to transfer them to hospital care, to extend hospital care, will lead to some prevention and preventive measures, first of all, to the health of this vulnerable contingent, on the other hand, we will reduce them not to go into such a difficult situation and complicate not only the emergency aid to which nothing is paid for, but also the stationary. Finally, I am glad that if not more and more, then at least let us begin to observe very carefully the process of synchronization of the legal basis between the different ministries. As you see here many times, the Minister of Social Policy and you are so close, but when we extend outpatient assistance, synchronization with a view to giving the maximum good and quality health care, we will have to. So I'm glad you're going to make such a meeting, it's very good and maybe it's a start. At least I've never heard that before. I believe this is the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u154	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u155	Dear Dr. Naydenova, what you are talking about, focusing and expanding the scope of extra-hospital medical care, is a strategic goal that we have set for ourselves, and it does not concern only this category of poor and unhappy people. Thank you for this supplementary question, so that I may have the opportunity to say that we are currently working with national consultants, with the chairmen of associations of companies and specialties, to see what is effective and not a book can be removed within the maximum period of time within the hospital aid and thus to unload the medical institutions. This was done as an experience by a previous team. It didn't work out in our opinion because of poorly made estimates, because you can't on a path that is paid by the Cashier, say 600 BGN, in the outpatient care to take it out for 20 BGN. In other words, we need to find the section, the motivation of the hospital specialists to do so and the effect that will unload both the hospitals and the financial NHIF. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. Next, a question from the National Representative Kristina Maximova Sidorova regarding the restriction of the use of bongs by minors. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u157	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Bulgarian young people find themselves completely unprotected by the dangers of the modern world, starting with the dangerous games on the Internet, passing through the sale of spirit drinks close to and directly to the fences of schools and reaching the safe entry of children into the hookup bars. In recent months, the fashion of the bong has increased greatly among young people. On social networks you can see pictures of 12-13-year-olds taking pictures of themselves smoking. On the Internet are shared videos with parents who pass a hooker even to young children, as well as photos from coupons of teenagers with heavy amounts of white smoke. ShiSha bars offer promotional conditions for organizing children's birthdays and the price as a rule includes the use of a bong as a main attraction. Unfortunately, however, no bong bar will bring your child back because it is underage. No hooker bar will enter the health inspection inspector because there is no ban, and there is no order for the crossing regime there. The facts are quite disturbing. According to the World Health Organization, the bong is by no means an alternative to cigarettes. Its smoke by nicotine content, carcinogenic, carbon monoxide exceeds much more cigarette smoke, and one use of a bong daily equals 100 smoked cigarettes. In the case of regular use of a bong, the risk to smokers is much greater than regular smoking of cigarettes. Smoking a bong can lead to addiction and is harmful to health, although many people do not realize this danger. I know that today the Ministry of Finance is planning to introduce excise duties for all the hot tubs, but this is just one step towards solving the problem. In this regard, I ask you: Dear Minister, what measures will be taken to limit smoking of a bong? Is it also envisaged when the introduction of age restrictions or a direct ban on smoking a bong from minors?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u158	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Come in for an answer, Professor. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, in relation to the question you are putting, which has been going on in society very quickly and sharply lately, the Ministry of Health has reacted very adequately and very quickly. In evidence of this, I will mention several dates. On August 30th, a working group was initiated at the Ministry of Health, attended by representatives of the ministries of the economy, of the interior, of agriculture and food, of education, as well as medical specialists and representatives of the local authorities. He started expert work on urgent legislative changes in several laws. I say again on August 30th. On 1 September, one day later, by my order, an interdepartmental working group was formed, which was tasked with developing and proposing changes in the regulations concerning the regulation of the use by minors of plant mixtures for smoking with a bong and their distribution. Upon completion of the work of the working group, a rapid legislative initiative is followed and it is in relation to several laws. Proposals for a change to the Health Act, which will address an extension of the ban on smoking in closed public places and in some open public places, regulating the ban on smoking tobacco and related products. Thus, the smoking ban will also cover the so-called water pipe. We also propose signing of an administrative penal staff so that the manager of an object that has allowed smoking can be sanctioned for not creating the necessary conditions and thus breaking the introduced ban. It is also envisaged to introduce a forced administrative measure to suspend the operation of an establishment for a specified period, such as a strict penalty for systematic violation of the prohibition. We believe that this will have the necessary deterrent and raising effect. We also propose to extend the circle of control bodies to something very important to identify violations of the ban and not to be just bodies of the Ministry of Health. With regard to the Tobacco Act, proposals are made for changes to the definition of the items related to the tobacco products, so that they are included in this concept and articles for water pipe not containing tobacco. Also defined is the concept of a water pipe article, which does not contain a tobacco product, etc. There are proposals for a change in the Child Protection Act, which concern the introduction of a ban on the supply and sale of tobacco products to children, along with the ban on the marketing and sale of tobacco products. The amendments to the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses are linked to an extension of the definition of tobacco products by clarifying that smoking mixes with a bong also fall within the scope of taxation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And I return again: August 30, 1st of September, and we go on September 5th, when we started with my letter to the Minister of Education an information campaign that is already under way among the parents, among the children, so that on the first day of school, if somewhere are delayed and shortly afterwards, there are videos, there is a lectureal material from which to convince people that this is not harmless. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u160	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u161	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I just want to make one point: my question is introduced on September 1st at 12:00 am. Thank you for the actions that followed then, for everything you have taken to solve this really sick and serious problem among the Bulgarian youth. A recommendation I hope that once legislative changes are adopted, they will be respected and will not happen what is observed with smoking in indoors, because although there is a law that prohibits, we are all witnesses that in many places in the country indoors, bars, restaurants are smoking. I hope that all that you have drawn up and taken as measures will have real and effective action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u162	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? You don't want to. We come to the next question, which is asked by the National Representative Elena Nikolova Yoncheva, about the existence of a conflict of interest in the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Haskovo, contrary to the law. Here you go, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u163	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Petrov, according to information in the public space and not only in the public, the Executive Director and member of the Board of Directors of the Haskovo, d. Georgi Gelov is also a partner in the private hospital "Hygiya" Ltd. My question to you is: what measures will you take with regard to this conflict of interest contrary to the law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u164	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. Come in for an answer, Professor. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u165	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, in response to your question, we have done the necessary actions and I could present to you the following. Dr. Gelov has taken the necessary actions and has sold his company shares in the Hospital "Higia" Ltd. worth 100 BGN. As early as September 15, 2015, which is evident from the notary certification of the Contract for the purchase and sale of company shares. The contract is also prominent in the Trade Register. It is also evident from the Commercial Register that the next day " 16 September 2015" Gelov has applied to the hospital manager "Hygia" which informs him of the sale and asks that the necessary action be taken to register this change in the Commercial Register. However, it is the company's competence to take the necessary action. In this sense, I note that the bonding attitude occurs from the moment the contract is signed in the office of the notary and not from the time of the entry. There is a duty to carry out the entry of the representative company "Hygiya" - which Dr. Gelov is not. In this order of thought he has presented all the declarations necessary for his determination and appointment as a member of the Board of Hospital in Haskovo. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u166	Thank you, dear Minister. You don't have any lines, Mrs. Yoncheva. A hole, Mr. Secretary? There's no line, do you still want to take the time for more comment? Please specify something you missed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u167	I missed what the lawyers gave me. In accordance with art. 23, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 24, para. 1 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest, the establishment of a conflict of interest shall be carried out on an alert submitted to the Commission for the prevention and establishment of a conflict of interest. Anyone who has evidence that the person holding a public office has infringed the provisions of this Law may submit an alert to the Commission. In this sense, if the Commission is referred to and it decides by a decision which establishes a conflict of interest by Dr. Gelov, the Ministry of Health will immediately take action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u168	Thank you, Professor. Petrov. The next question is from the MPs Kolyo Yordanov Milev and Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov about the specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases, terminated by liquidation. You're welcome to develop the question, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u169	Thank you. Dear President, honourable Members, Dear Minister Petrov! The former tuberculosis hospital in the town of Sliven was converted by order of the Minister of Health in a single commercial company. The same starts work and works until 2004 when due to poor conditions of work is closed by HEI. Since a suitable building fund could not be found for a number of years, in 2010 the activities were transferred to implementation of the Hospital Dr. Ivan Seliminsky. The city of Sliven and the sole commercial company was in the process of liquidation. Unfortunately, the liquidation period expired in 2012 and until now no measures have been taken to close its liquidation. The building fund itself is crumbling. The main building, built in 1898, is a monument of culture. Our question to you, Mr Minister, as there is a great public interest in preserving this building as a monument of culture and its rapid recovery: what measures will you take to quickly pass the eradication procedure, which is your responsibility as the principal of the Ministry, and to resolve the future of the building fund that is provided to you for management, as things are currently not very good? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u170	Thank you, General. Milev. Here you are, dear Minister. You have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u171	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Milev, Dear Mr. Ermenkov! As I was going down to the stands, I thought it would be nice from now on, when ministers are appointed, to be two. One to put out such fires was not Lovech, Vratsa, it was not the Project Emergency Assistance. I'm going to report another fire. I don't have time to look ahead, but you're asking me about politics. And the second minister to make policies in the future. There's got to be one who can shovel and sweep. The case, I'm making an analogy, that's exactly what it is. A little chronology. By decision of the sole owner of the Minister, from 2010 the company is terminated by liquidation and three liquidators are appointed................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 55 of the Law on Medical Institutions. By the winding-up deadline of 2012 no activities have been implemented by the liquidators, as a result of which an extension of the liquidation period is requested, however, the provision does not allow this thing. Therefore, with the annulment of the provision in 2015, the abovementioned persons were exempted and a new liquidator was appointed and the duration of the extension. What does the current liquidator say in his letter to us? The entire accounting and other documentation left on the territory of the hospital complex was looted. The lack of documentation makes it impossible to switch the proceedings to an assessment of the company's assets with a view to cashing it. The few stored movable items that could be used were subject to public sale by private court contractors. The company does not have any money. It has obligations of BGN 400,000.! Finally, the liquidator itself did not receive any remuneration. In this order of thinking this is another case that the Ministry of Health must urgently undertake, find funds to cover the obligations, complete this procedure and from then on to think about what will happen to the building property. The roads are several "You know whether to declare yourself public, whether to transfer to the municipality through the Agency, or to the Privatization Agency. First of all, we need to cover our obligations, see where we are, finish things procedurally and solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u172	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Ermenkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u173	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I'm going to start with your banter for the two ministers and say that in the end, when you took over this post, you should have known it wasn't something that was wonderful, wonderful for work. There is such a French saying (the proverb in French) So I hope that you will be truly at the height of the situation for which you have been elected Minister of Health. As for the particular case, I would like to tell you that as early as 2015, also as a MP from Sliven, I visited Dr. Moskov, who was your predecessor, then I introduced him to this case and showed him some terrible pictures. It's really horrible if you go and see, there's residue of drugs on the floor, of syringes, some leftover X-rays. By the way, there is also a lot of documentation that is in the section of personal data. I asked him to take the necessary measures more quickly, as a result of which he traditionally said to me: "Yes, well, we will make a commission. The results of this committee, I don't even know if it was created, you see what they are right now. I hope, under the question of liquidation of this hospital, we will not get to liquidation of the building fund, because it is really crumbling and there is little more left to be liquidated, there will be nothing left to liquidate, except the word "hospital." I very much hope that this problem, which is an ulcer in the center of Sliven, in a park that can be expanded and that these buildings will be used as cultural entertainment centres or for something else, will benefit the public of Sliven, not be very much a question. I know it's £400,000. debt is not small in the common pit of poverty in healthcare at the moment, but let us note that Sliven's citizens deserve to have a good living environment and without the risks of a building that, apart from being a monument of culture and must be kept, still poses a risk to people if, God forbid, someone goes inside and the ceiling falls on it. There are cases like this. Once again, I urge you very quickly, knowing that you do not have a second minister to deal with such work, to entrust one of your deputy ministers with this matter to be resolved. We'll follow and we won't leave you alone, I promise you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u174	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We move on to the next issue, which is from the National Representative Georgiev Mihailov, concerning the priority of the Ministry of Health for introducing a model for the payment of health work. Here you are, Mr. Mikhailov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Professor. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen! In August, the priorities of the Ministry of Health for the actions of the Ministry in the field of health for 2017 and a subsequent period were presented, among which was affected an extremely painful topic for the decent pay of the work of medical specialists, doctors, healthcare professionals and other specialists in the country who work in the field of health care. I would like to know from you: what are your specific views and have specific valuation measures been taken, in any way configured in the financing of hospitals of this work? An injustice of the latter, I can say quite calmly as a doctor of practice, for two decades pursued and created one of the main problems for leaving both the country and the public hospitals of specialists who are valued by all of us and represent national capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u176	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u177	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mikhailov! With regard to labour pay, I find two subquests, namely the cost of labor, in the first place, and the development of a model for its implementation. With regard to the cost of work, you know that this is a topic on which you do not work and are quite running away. Since the model of clinical pathways has been working, there is not enough clarity on how the salaries of medical professionals are formed. It is no coincidence that yesterday and in the Committee on Health, I stressed that this is an extremely slow and growing problem. He expects his decision because since 2006 the value of clinical pathways has not been changed. It's been more than 10 years, there's an appreciation of life, there's inflation, it's rising repeatedly, God willing to be, the minimum wage, the average salary, but as a percentage of the value of the clinical path, it's getting bigger and depleting. This is one of the reasons why hospitals start to accumulate debts, because if from 100% clinical path salaries have formed 40.. 50, now this percentage is chasing much higher values. I think the time has come to make an update on this. Regarding the calculation of the qualification work itself, as well as the quality of the work, there is such a working group that works together with the Medical Union, representatives of university hospitals, representatives of district and municipal hospitals. She is tasked with the medical work of doctors and nurses. With regard to the present moment, however, when work on the first topic, the determination of the labour price, will lead to a change most likely to the whole model, because in this case it should be drawn as a figure what the pay of this work is, what mechanism will be provided for, who will be responsible for it and whether it will be removed from the value of the clinical path, or not, this discussion will continue, Professor. Mikhailov. And with regard to the current situation, you know, you have mentioned it to me, the MPs, and the so-called strategy for managing hospital services is currently underway, where one of the things that will be proposed in this Strategy will also be the way to form the current salary of doctors and nurses under the current model. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u178	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you go for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Professor. Petrov. The question that you have addressed in your reply indeed has several sides. But these countries cannot now, as well as theoretically examine them, respond to the current needs of the professional community from at least a temporary solution to the issues of fair pay for this work. I absolutely agree with you, with what you told the Commission yesterday that since 2006, the prices of clinical pathways have not been changed, but I would add: and not only that. Some of the prices of the clinical pathways, you, as a high-class professional, know that they are too over-funded. Some of the clinical pathways include, incorporate diseases in themselves, I regret that I use professional technology, but in your presence I consider this to be absolutely possible, absolutely different in its biological aggression, in their financierness respectively, and in general, so that I do not be very verbal about the whole structure of paying healthcare through clinical pathways is facing collapse, and unfortunately, in your high professional presence. You very accurately said, answering my colleague just now that you actually walk from fire to fire. With all their responsibility and with all their desire of a doctor, of a person, of a Bulgarian citizen to help, but with this model of payment things will not be resolved in any way. This question you are putting is undoubtedly clear that if such calculations are made here I allow myself to open a small clamp to you and say that in April the Medical Union presented a model for payment. Whether he is quite perfect or not, but he is borrowed from France and the Federal Republic of Germany. It should be known, however, that models of countries with gross domestic product 4 - 5 times higher than Bulgarian - cannot be easily rebalanced in our Bulgarian professional conditions, so such a model is available. But this model, if implanted automatically, mechanically in the price of clinical pathways, it will immediately raise the entire cost of financing health care, and by a small amount. Therefore, our proposal as a parliamentary group was, in the early days of governance and the formation of the current parliament, to consider, and not theoretically, the model of financing health care. In this sense, I took the liberty of asking you this question. You have said that such discussions are taking place. I'm not known for such discussions, frankly, as a parliamentarians, and as a doctor...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u180	The weather, Mr. Mikhailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u181	...but it would be really interesting if this happened in a close-up. Otherwise we can exchange views on this issue, but Bulgarian doctors and nurses will remain with the same payment in the coming months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u182	Thank you. You have the opportunity for a doppelganger, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u183	Honourable Professor. Mikhailov! I thank you for this question and, if we go back to another parliamentary control, we discussed this topic. We are facing a watershed where we have to decide, that is, you, the MPs, to decide whether this will be the model. Because we face many contradictions on a daily basis. This is one part of the problem: the cost of workers in health care. The other part of the problem is what concerns you said it actually, do the clinical pathways cover everything? The resources of the different patients are very different. Very different! In this order of thought is done and the so-called "choice" is done and the different medical institutions prefer to work with some patients, others who are not allowed to accept everything, work with all patients and hence the result we see every day. I mean, on the one hand, we have a complex, purely market model. This market model leads to other bad situations, as colleagues from Vratsa rightly protest because they have worked and want to get their salaries. But they don't seem to know that the Ministry of Health doesn't pay the salaries. They're commercial companies. And we're back to square one: is this supposed to be the model? But this is a much more serious case of solving whether we will work in the market and at the same time act like hypocrites, and talk about humanity, about the Hippocratic oath? Yesterday, I read a complaint about a woman who was refused to have her child examined. Well, it's the same way to complain that they closed your shop in front of your nose because it's out of work hours. But they're working under this Law, unfortunately! It's not human, it shouldn't happen, but the notions of morality, humanity, responsibility and trade begin to fight. So thank you for lifting the ball. I am ready to discuss it, but this will be a tough decision, it must be a decision of parliament, and it is not imposed by a party, but a unanimous decision. In fact, the model is not perfect.. Will we find a better one, what it will cost us, how will we explain it to people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is another question for you again by Mr. Georgi Mihailov, who is about the proposal of the Ministry of Health for the creation of the Fund for Rare Diseases. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Professor. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen! Also in the priorities of the Ministry of Health was raised as an opportunity to create a Fund for the Treatment of Rare Diseases. This question is extremely painful for a small but very vulnerable part of the Bulgarian population. This issue was treated in the Lisbon Treaty, which was signed by all the countries of the European Union and for the honour of Bulgaria, it was one of the first countries to comply and set up a Commission at the Ministry of Health on Rare Diseases. My question to you is to hear your vision, because the creation of a fund implies many opportunities, and to discuss with you within these few minutes what is the possibility to improve the treatment of these very injured by nature, but also with great opportunities for treatment already Bulgarian patients and Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u186	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u187	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mikhailov! Yeah, that's right. In Target 120: A balanced policy is envisaged to finance the treatment of rare diseases by creating an independent fund. The idea is subject to quite a serious discussion, and in a way to engage not only political organizations, financial organizations, patient organisations. Answers must be found to many questions: first, organizing and forming; second, where to be; third, what to organize, order of work and funding. As the first two most important questions, I would point to the following two questions: are strategically important for the Fund itself: whether this should be a special fund to support the so-called "compassionate support" for units of patients with ultra rare diseases in which extremely expensive therapies are shown, or whether it should cover all rare diseases found in the country, according to the common definition of the European Union. This is what we are about to do, we are yet to discuss and we are yet to fight for it. I guess you're right, too. To date, their treatment should be funded through the Commission, in which the list is endorsed by the Minister and financed by the National Health Insurance Fund. This is coming as with Dr. Naydenova, there will also be a most likely necessary fund for outpatient care for the poor people. Thank you. PRESENT VALERI JABLYANOV: You have the floor for a reply, Mr. Mihailov. Two minutes, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For many years, I have been a member of the Committee on Rare Diseases, as a hematologist, and an oncohematologist, our diseases for most of their nature are defined as rare. I was very interested in the problems of rare diseases. I would like to share with you, within this opportunity to express my opinion after your response, my vision as a doctor and as a people's representative, and as a Bulgarian citizen, that the creation of a fund in this way, in which it was realized as the notorious already known Fund for the treatment of children abroad, in which directors change as a football match, or rather in a hockey game, because in the football match the shifts are rarely going, for one reason or another, will be extremely problematic for any management of the Ministry, whether it is a person like you who is a proven professional, or an administrator who is away from medicine. My personal view of such diseases is not to go into detail, as there are many colleagues in this Chamber who are not inside this very serious professional topic, should be subject to conducting by the Ministry of Health. It must take on its harsh role, such as three thousand diseases. You are absolutely right that if we open the entire palette of rare diseases, even if we have the gross domestic product of Denmark, Switzerland or Singapore, we will not be able to handle this issue. Moreover, I will give you one example: applications have been made to the Committee on Rare Diseases for Cancer. If all cancers that are rare get them on this list, things will get catastrophic. At the first stage, I think that the Ministry of Health should make its claims, take over the treatment of AIDS patients, as it takes over the treatment of tuberculosis patients, as it does the treatment of patients with mental illness, to take control of this high responsible group of patients, and now, with one state-level thinking, the relevant experts, of course, to see what can be done for the most significant cohorts of those patients who are rare, and of course, and for the patients that you mentioned, with ultrared diseases, whose treatment requires more money. But this must be taken over by the Ministry of Health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u189	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary. You won't be using it. Okay. That's the end of the question for you. We are moving on to the questions that have been addressed to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. The first question to the Minister is from the National Representative Nikolay Asenov Tishev concerning findings of thermal insulation materials, which do not comply with a requirement under Law, when renovation of a block under the Energy Efficiency Programme. Here you are, Mr. Tishev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u190	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! In your interview at the beginning of August to BTV TV you confirm a sanitized block under the Energy Efficiency Program on the territory of Burgas with materials that do not comply with the fire standards. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following questions: are any sanctions imposed on the contractor company, and if so, what; is the replacement of the input materials requested; is an additional plaster required to ensure the safety of residents in the bloc? Second question: what measures have been taken by the control bodies in relation to the supplied thermal insulation materials which do not comply with the requirements of Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u191	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, according to the Ordinance on Construction and Technical Rules and Standards for Fire Safety when putting into a construction, thermal insulation products should be accompanied by a declaration of performance indicating the fire response class. The manufacturer of the product that places it on the market is responsible for the authenticity of the declared and not for the contractor of the construction works, which is why she cannot be subject to sanctions and penalties. I repeat, the responsibility in this case is the company that manufactures the relevant insulation material. In relation to signals received by the Bulgarian Association for Insulation in Construction, the heat insulation product of expanded polystyrene produced by producers is likely to be produced by two Romanian producers, I will quote them: "S." C. ADELPLAST S. A.s., Romania and S. C. EPS THEMOPOR S. R. The State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision carried out tests in a notified laboratory in Italy and at the Testing and European Certification Centre in the city of Stara Zagora. The results of the Testing and European Certification Center Ltd., Stara Zagora, show that the samples from the thermal insulation products produced by one of the two Romanian producers. C. ADELPLAST S. A. "In Romania, they do not meet a class of reaction to fire C, but are class C. In relation to the finding of non-compliance of the fire response indicators with the declared by the manufacturer, I stress again, the Directorate-General for Market Surveillance (CSD) as required by art. 56 of EU Regulation No 305/2011 has notified the notifying authority and market surveillance in Romania and the European Commission of products which do not comply with their declared characteristics. Manufacturers have taken corrective action, new assessments and tests have been taken for the products and new declarations of their performance by reaction to fire have been provided. The following measures were taken after a meeting with the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection: First measure to require declarations of thermal insulation products, an investment of each of the sites over 28 m financed under the Programme. Secondly, the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection (CEO) to discuss and propose a mechanism for each of the buildings filled with these products to be investigated and to prescribe additional measures to ensure the safety of residents. The measures will be indicated for the execution of the builders where the building is not accepted and the municipalities, in case the contract for construction and construction works is completed and the building is put into operation. The measures must be implemented under existing contracts or by means of municipal funds. Thirdly, to refer to the prosecution for the placing on the market of a product, accompanied by a false declaration, what I said at the outset, that the responsibility belongs to the producer himself. In criminal proceedings, municipalities and contractors may join with civil claims for material damage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u193	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Tishev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u194	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, your answer was really comprehensive on my second question: what measures have you taken to refer to the control authorities? However, my main question in the question was specifically about the 17 block of the complex "Slaveykov" in Burgas: will this thermal insulation be replaced, the materials that have been used, and it has been proven after the inspection in Italy that they are poor, i.e. they do not meet the standard for fire safety. I'll make you an analogy. You know, if foods are found in a retail chain that do not meet the Bulgarian state standard or their expiration date has expired, although the label says otherwise, they are withdrawn. In this case, I have not heard: will such measures be taken to ensure the safety of the people who live in this block in Burgas? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u195	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tishev, somewhere in the second minute and 35 seconds, I answered this particular question. [[laughs]] since I mentioned that at the moment this is the second measure that we have taken together with the competent authorities. The General Directorate for Fire Safety and Protection of the Population is committed to discuss and propose a mechanism by which each of the buildings filled with these products, including the building you said in Burgas, should be investigated and additional measures to ensure the safety of the residents are prescribed. In this case we are talking about implemented activities, not those under realization, so the funds that will be necessary for the additional measures guaranteeing the safety of residents in the building will remain at the expense of the municipality. Indeed, within a few weeks we expect the mechanism that will be approved by us as a methodically responsible institution for implementing and implementing the Energy Efficiency Programme, so that really not only for the specific building, but for all the others the necessary measures have been taken. In this case, I will conclude that we are really talking about not qualifying whether it is a commercial fraud, as there are competent authorities, but for falsely declared characteristics by the manufacturer. Let the Romanian side deal with it. By the way, the European Commission, not that I acquitted municipal administrations, in this case municipal administration Burgas, there are several cases in Bulgaria, you know. Two weeks ago, I was answering a similar question in your colleague's plenary room. I do not condone the builders performers of these activities, but we do have declared qualities, declared characteristics of material and I would like to thank the Association for isolation, which in this case we are alerted to this vicious practice that there are false data and characteristics declared. Neither the municipal administration, mayors, technical supervision on the ground can identify the characteristics of the particular material, nor even the owner of the apartment, who decided by his own means to sanitize himself, to isolate his building with thermal insulation material. In this case, we are really talking about a bad conscience, not qualifying it as a trade fraud, a practice which, in my opinion, should be notified to the competent authorities, including the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u197	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next issue, which is from the National Representative Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev regarding the state of road II-58 Asenovgrad Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u198	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in my request I have clearly outlined the section from the road from Asenovgrad to the village of Novakovo on the threshold, at the end of Plovdiv region, is in a very miserable state. Do you expect this road to be repaired because from Plovdiv to Kardzhali this is the most direct route, and it has formed also as an international road due to traffic through Greece via Makaza? What is provided for by you and will we expect the road to be repaired soon, to be brought into normal condition? The area is quite populated, alive, the road is daily busy and we hope that you will comply with the citizens' request. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u199	Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u200	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, given the importance of the Republican Road II-58 Asenovgrad, for carrying out normal communication for the residents of the municipalities of Plovdiv and Kardzhali, of the whole South and Southeastern Bulgaria, you are right, by the way, this is one of the busiest second-class roads in the country, and taking into account the very poor condition of the section from Asenovgrad to the village of Novakovo, the specific part for which you are asking your question, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning a major repair of the second-class road II-58 Kardzhali "Asenovgrad" in the section of the district of Plovdiv with a total length of 32 km 834 m, and the designated section falls within the scope of the planned repair. There's a technical project ready for the precinct. The site is included in the program "Basic repair" of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" for 2017. The indicative value of the construction works is 23 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. without VAT for the entire section, the construction supervision nearly 500 thousand. lv. .. 470 thousand. lv. without VAT. The funds are provided by the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. Procedures are currently in place for the selection of contractor of construction works and construction supervision. The tender procedures are underway. On 29 September 2017, offers for the selection of contractor of construction works were opened, and on 6 October, today, what a coincidence they will be, and may already be open tenders for contractor of construction supervision. After the completion of the work of the auction committees and, hopefully, there will be no appeals to the decisions on the choice of contractor, we expect the repair activities of the site to start as early as 2018 and there will be appeals, during the winter season we will finish the tender procedures so that within the new construction season in 2018 we can start the real activities. I mentioned the budget is secure, which is the most important thing. We'll finish up and finalize the tender procedures. The deadline for completion of the repair is 24 months. There is an opportunity to optimize it. Let us see, however, what time has the participant given to win the contract. I guess it'll be lower because 24 months is the maximum term, and it can be optimized. Naturally, until the implementation of this project, the Agency will continue to take care to ensure safe driving conditions, according to the available financial resources allocated to the maintenance of Republican roads in Plovdiv. From the beginning of 2017 until now activities have been carried out in the area of Plovdiv region and they are worth just over 50 thousand. lv. These include mending compromised areas on the pavement, cleaning trenches, aligning banquets, mowing lawns, cutting shrubs and restoring horizontal marking, palliative actions on current repair and maintenance. The overall solution will be the implementation of the project that I mentioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u201	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have an opportunity for a douche bag, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u202	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for your information. We weren't informed that she started a procedure. My question's about a month old. Let us hope that you will be in control to perform quality and in time the repair of this busy road. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u203	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Would you like to use a hole, Mr. Secretary? No, okay. We move on to the next issue, which is also the last issue for today's parliamentary control, from the National Representative Georgi Georgiev Stoilov on the management of the Association of Water and Water. Here you are, Mr. Stoilov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u204	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The question I am going to ask concerns not only the Association of Water and Water, but certainly all such established associations. The interest of the citizens in Ruse district is increasing over the state of This interest is caused by concern and insufficient information about the company's activities. Ruse is a counterparty under a contract for the management, maintenance and operation of the water supply and sewerage systems and facilities and the provision of water supply and sewerage services concluded with the Association of Water and Water. The contract between the Association and the Water Operator settles the relationship related to the distribution of ownership of the assets. It also lays down quality indicators for the services provided and their achievement. Some of them are: loss of water, financial efficiency, quality of drinking water, management plan, operation and maintenance of assets, human resources management plan, investment programme and others. They're all distributed by years. They are also defined as short-term and long-term. Dear Minister, my question is: are the clauses in the contract between the Association for Water and the operator? Are the quality indicators and the investment programme laid down in this contract implemented? Are there violations in the work and activities of the Association on Water and Water in relation to the Water Act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u205	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u206	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, contract for the management, maintenance and operation of the water systems and facilities and the provision of water supply and sewerage services between the Water Supply and Sewerage Association of the separate territory served by the Water and Canal Ltd. - Ruse, and the operator of the water supply and sewerage, has entered into force since 1 January 2016. In accordance with art. 9, para. 1 of the Water Supply and Sewerage Services Regulation Act, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission measures and evaluates the quality of the services provided through the quality indicators included in the contract, which build on the requirements of the Law and set specific levels to be achieved in specific target years, which you also quoted in your question. According to the operator's report to the Association for Water and Water, the performance of quality indicators is currently the following. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the amount of aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union must be limited to the amount of aid referred to in Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the amount of aid to be recovered from the beneficiary in accordance with Article The level achieved by 31 December 2016 is 41,67%, i.e. we already see that we have, within this calendar year, a decrease of almost 0,5%, in the correct direction of performance of this indicator, according to the contract. The water supply measurement at the level of the water source, the 100% level of demand must be achieved by the end of 2018, with this level achieved by the end of 2016, i.e. 31 December 2016. We have 100% performance of the indicator. The value of the measurement service includes three elements, namely: building plumbing deviations to be included in a register. Target level 100% must be achieved over a period of two years, these 100% have been achieved over a period of one year, within 2016. Building plumbing deviations shall be equipped with water meters within a metrology shelf life. The target level of 80% must be achieved over a period of five years achieved by 31 December 2016. It's almost 3%, 83,27%. We've got an overplay on the indicator. Building plumbing deviations with measured consumption above 100 cubic metres. m. per month shall be equipped with water meters within the period of metrology fitness. The 95% target level must be achieved over a period of three years from the entry into force of the contract. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Once again, we have an over-execution of the indicator. As regards the implementation of the investment programme of the operator in the water systems and facilities, it should be borne in mind that the commitment for the 15-year contract period amounts to a total of almost 40 million. lv. excluding VAT, the amount of EUR 38 million (excluding VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, VAT, 432,000. lv. This is the mandatory level of investment in the infrastructure of the water serviced by Ruse, territory. I'm running out of time, I'm ending up with two sentences. The planned investments by year are forecast. For example, the forecast for 2016 was 1 million. $110,000. BGN and the operator has made investments of almost 3 million. Five hundred thousand. BGN, i.e. there are three times overrun of its investment program. Currently, the Ministry has no evidence of violations of the work and activities of the Association of Water and Water. If information is available on non-compliance of the terms of the contract between the Association and the Water Operator, or non-compliance with the provisions of the Water Act in the work and activities of the Association of Waters Ruse, please provide it in the Ministry to carry out an inspection and take appropriate action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-06.u207	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There's nothing wrong with delaying time as long as the answer is meaningful. Thank you. Mr. Stoilov, do you want a line? You won't use it. With this issue, we have concluded today's parliamentary control, and with this, the agenda for this week. The next National Assembly meeting is on Wednesday, next week, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
