ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We continue with point five of our programme provided for point one for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE DANISH-EXISTING PROCEEDING CODEX. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. The President of the Commission will present him to you the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please allow Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Ivan Antonov, Chief Legal Consult at the Central Management of the NRA, Mr. Rosen Ivanov, Director at the Directorate of the NRA and Ms. Tanya Drenska.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u3	Please vote on admission of the persons mentioned by Mrs. Stoyanova in the Chamber. Vote 187 MPs: 186 against 1, no abstentions. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u4	♪ I can't believe Subject: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. At a meeting held on 15 June 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. The bill was presented by Mr. Boyko Atanasov. Minister of Finance. The Law introduces the rules of Council Directive (EU) 2015/2376 of 8 December 2015. amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and those of Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. The rules introduced by Directive (EU) 2016/881, on the one hand, are essential for Bulgaria in order to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning more effectively. On the other hand, the mandatory exchange of information between countries in which multinational groups of undertakings operate through their constituent enterprises will stimulate those undertakings to give up certain aggressive tax planning practices by contributing a fair share of profits to the country where profits are realised. The increased transparency with regard to multinational groups of enterprises is an essential part of the global efforts to prevent the contraction of the tax base and the transfer of profits. The provisions implementing the above Directives also take into account the rules developed by the OECD on the exchange of information on preliminary cross-border tax rulings prior pricing agreements and reports by countries that Bulgaria should introduce in its legislation. The project also provides for significant property penalties in the event of non-compliance with the reporting obligations by country and notification provided for in the Law. This is conditional, on the one hand, on the need for strict compliance with obligations, given the global efforts to achieve greater transparency with regard to multinational groups of undertakings. On the other hand, in order to encourage the implementation of the Law and to achieve the objectives of administrative criminal liability, the amount of sanctions is consistent with the fact that the debtors are multinational groups of undertakings with significant revenue on a consolidated basis. The provisions by which Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments is introduced in Bulgarian legislation are repealed due to its repeal with the new directive. In view of the effective implementation of the commitments undertaken by the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of taxes under international agreements entered into force with the Project, provisions are set out in Chapter Twenty-September "b', binding on them the rules for the implementation of mutual assistance in the recovery of public claims under concluded international contracts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party. At present, such provisions exist in the DCC with regard to the exchange of information carried out under international contracts. The creation of new rules is linked to increasing international cooperation in the field of taxes in recent years, the aim of which is better action and interaction of national tax laws and, at the same time, respect for the fundamental rights of debtors. In relation to the exchange of information with other countries, it is proposed to clarify provisions on the scope of tax insurance information and the grounds for its disclosure. It is explicitly regulated that the data received under the terms of mutual assistance and administrative cooperation, including the exchange of information with other countries under the conditions of Chapter 16th, Sections IIIa, IV, V, VI, Chapter 20, and Chapter twenty-spoken "b" of the DCC, constitute tax and forever information and can be disclosed only under the terms and conditions laid down in an international contract or in the relevant chapters of the DCC. In relation to the latest recommendations, the project is proposed to complement and refine the provision of art. 150 of the Insurance Code with respect to competent authorities that may request disclosure of insurance secrecy when information is exchanged with other countries, such information is required. In view of the need to improve and complement the existing arrangements in DPCC with the project, amendments to art. 19 on the liability of third parties. The main objective of the proposal for the change is to improve the effectiveness of the implementation of the institute relating to the commitment of third parties to outstanding obligations on taxes and social security contributions of legal persons. The project also provides for fiscal control over the movement of goods with high fiscal risk to be carried out in respect of excise goods. Amendments and additions to the Law on limitation of payments in cash are envisaged. The possibility of payment is introduced through a virtual terminal device POS of administered by the National Revenue Agency taxes and insurance contributions, and the funds come directly to the account of the NRA in the Bulgarian National Bank. It is also proposed that the regulatory threshold for limiting cash payments in the country should be reduced by BGN 10 000. 1,000 leva. for a period of two years as a measure limiting the grey economy. In a discussion of the Bill took the floor and expressed constructive opinions MPs, representatives of CRIB, IEDS, Ministry of Finance and NRA, who generally supported the spirit and philosophy of the Law. Most of the participants in the discussion expressed doubts, however, about the happiness of the proposed changes concerning the amendment of art. 19, the special rules for automatic exchange of reports by country on the reporting of multinational groups of enterprises for Bulgaria and on the regulated payment method on the territory of the country. In order to overcome ambiguities and possible contradictions in law enforcement, the Budget and Finance Committee has united around the idea between the first and second reading of the bill, to form a working group of a wide range of stakeholders and experts to give a convincing answer to the issues discussed. In conclusion, the members of the Budget and Finance Committee expressed their principled support for such a proposed bill by concluding its discussion with the following results: With 14 votes in favour, 7 votes in favour, without abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Draft for amendment and supplement of the Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mr. Vigenin, for the report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 14 June 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code submitted by the Council of Ministers. On behalf of the importers in the meeting took part the following representatives of the Ministry of Finance: Mr. Boyko Atanasov Deputy Minister, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Mrs. Irena Hristova Head of Department in the same Directorate. Mr. Rosen Ivanov attended by the NRA Central Management Director of the Directorate of the............................................................. and Mrs. Tanya Atanasova-Drenska................................................................................................................................................................................. The following discussion with questions and opinions included the MPs Kristian Vigenin, Ivelina Vasileva, Petar Petrov, Ivan Ivanov, Imren Mehmedova, Albena Naydenova and Polina Tsankova-Hristova. I. The proposed draft law aims to introduce a number of changes to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (APC) aimed at synchronising and supplementing Bulgarian legislation with the existing European norms. First, the rules of Council Directive (EU) 2015/2376 of 8 December 2015 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, the provisions of which should have been introduced into national law by 31 December 2016 shall be transposed. The mandatory automatic exchange of information between Member States is expected to lead to greater transparency in the issue of tax rulings and to stimulate fair competition in the field of taxation while increasing the effectiveness of administrative cooperation between tax administrations. Codes are also laid down under which, in the order of automatic exchange, the Executive Director of the National Revenue Agency should exchange with the competent authorities of the Member States of the European Union and with the European Commission information on preliminary cross-border tax advice and advance pricing arrangements. II. The second group of changes aims to introduce the provisions of Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation, the transposition period of which is until 4 June 2017. In accordance with the requirements of the Directive, rules must be established for the automatic exchange of reports by country containing information on the distribution of income, profits, assets and taxes of undertakings which are part of a multinational group of undertakings. III. The third group of amendments affect the provisions of Chapter 16th, Section V of the DPC. With regard to an inquiry EU pilot No 8223/16/TAXU of the services of the European Commission relating to the introduction of Council Directive 2011/16/EU of 15 February 2011 on administrative cooperation in the field of taxation and repealing Directive 77/799/EEC and as a result of the procedure for non-compliance with Bulgarian legislation and European law, the text of art. 143a of the DODEC should be clarified in accordance with the Directive. IV. It is also intended to update certain provisions of the DPC, due to the entry into force of Council Directive (EU) 2015/2060 of 10 November 2015 repealing Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments, certain obsolete rules transposing Directive 2003/48/EC should be repealed. In addition, changes introducing and clarifying the provisions of Council Directive 2010/24/EU of 16 March 2010 on mutual assistance in the recovery of claims relating to taxes, fees and other measures are proposed. V. The proposed bill aims to reflect the notes and recommendations received in the framework of the preliminary review of the Bulgarian legislation implementing the General Standard for the provision of information carried out by the Global Forum for Transparency and Exchange of Information for Tax Purposes at the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 6 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes abstentions of the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. The third report is from the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies, Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u8	Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention, I present: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. At its meeting on 15 June 2017, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Combating of the Grey Economy and Smuggling discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy, Mrs. Irena Hristova, Head of the Department of Tax Policy Directorate, Mrs. Anna Bachvarova, Senior Expert in the Directorate of Tax Policy. The draft was presented by Mr. Boyko Atanasov, who stressed the need to introduce Council Directive (EU) 2015/2376 of 8 December 2015 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation and Council Directive (EU) 2016/881 of 25 May 2016 concerning the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation. The rules introduced by Directive (EU) 2016/881, on the one hand, are essential for Bulgaria in order to combat tax evasion and aggressive tax planning more effectively. On the other hand, the mandatory automatic exchange of information between the countries in which multinational groups of undertakings operate through their constituent enterprises will stimulate those undertakings to give up certain aggressive tax planning practices by paying a fair share of taxes in the country where profits are realised. The draft law also provides for significant property penalties in the event of non-compliance with the reporting obligations by country and notification provided for in the law. In order to promote the implementation of the Law and to achieve the objectives of administrative criminal liability, the amount of sanctions is consistent with the fact that the debtors are multinational groups of undertakings with significant revenue on a consolidated basis. The provisions implementing the above Directives take into account the rules developed by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development on the exchange of information on preliminary cross-border tax advice, preliminary pricing arrangements and country reports that Bulgaria should introduce in its legislation as part of the package of measures of the General Framework of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. The provisions by which Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments is introduced in Bulgarian legislation are repealed due to its replacement by Council Directive (EU) 2015/2060 of 10 November 2015. In view of the effective implementation of commitments by the Republic of Bulgaria in the field of taxes, new provisions are introduced in Chapter twenty-seven. In relation to the exchange of information with other countries, it is proposed to clarify provisions on the scope of tax insurance information and the grounds for its disclosure. It is explicitly regulated that the data received under the terms of mutual assistance and administrative cooperation, including the exchange of information with other countries, are tax and security information and can be disclosed only under the conditions and under the terms laid down in an international contract or in the relevant chapters of the DCC. The draft law proposes supplementing and clarifying the provision of art. 150 of the Insurance Code with respect to competent authorities that may request disclosure of insurance secrecy when information is exchanged with other countries, such information is required. In view of the need to improve and complement the existing arrangements in the DPAC, amendments to art. 19 on the liability of third parties. The project also provides for fiscal control over the movement of goods with high fiscal risk to be carried out in respect of excise goods. Amendments and additions to the Law on limitation of payments in cash are envisaged. The possibility of payment is introduced through a virtual terminal device POS of administered by the National Revenue Agency taxes and insurance contributions, and the funds come directly to the account of the NRA in the Bulgarian National Bank. It is also proposed that the regulatory threshold for limiting cash payments in the country should be reduced by BGN 10 000. up to 1000 leva. for a period of two years as a measure limiting the grey economy. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Christian Mitev, Valentin Nikolov, Adlen Shevked, Vladislav Nikolov, Dragomir Stoinev and Dora Hristova. Following the discussion, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling: by 11 votes.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u9	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Can we hear an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! The bill we are looking at today is prepared to harmonise the requirements of two directives relating to the exchange of information between revenue administrations. Those changes to the provisions of the DCC are subject to public consultation. For them we have a preliminary impact assessment, as required by the law. At a later stage, however, in a repetition of old and poor practice, which this majority and the previous parliaments had, new provisions were introduced, new amendments that are significant in their nature and depend not only on business but also on almost all citizens of the country. This is a bad way of making legislation, behind the backs of stakeholders, individuals and citizens. This is a rude violation of the Law on Legislative Acts and for this reason, and this is the first reason why we will not support the proposed changes to the DODK. Thus, the proposed changes are an attempt to solve significant problems, the severe problems that there are, but in the way it is done, this is put at risk the effectiveness of the solution, which today we will try to take and the problems that we are debating. The changes aimed at improving and supplementing the existing arrangements on the liability of third parties for taxes and insurance contributions, we support the efforts made by importers to improve the implementation of the institute of art. 19, to overcome the vice of selling debt companies to underprivileged and unemployed persons. However, tabled quickly and contrary to the requirements of the law, we take the risk of adopting changes that will not solve such a significant problem, and an important one, of course, which for years finds no effective solution. This problem is debatable. This article of the PDK has been changed in 2015, and not only do we not have a preliminary assessment on it now, but we do not have an ex post assessment as required by the Law on Legislative Acts. Indeed, most of the participants in the Committee on Budget and Finance expressed doubts as to the relevance of the proposed changes. Despite the fact that the transposition of the European directives is important and there are deadlines, these texts, which are significant, concern important problems and concern the activities of many companies and citizens, but proposed quickly and without debate. I cannot agree with the report that, in order to overcome ambiguities and possible contradictions in law enforcement, the Committee on Budget and Finance, with a working group with a wide range of experts and stakeholders, will give a convincing answer to the issues discussed. Honourable Members, this is not the way and order to overcome vices, nor is it the way to answer questions and ambiguities that arise, and even less so is the way and the way to make legislation. The problems that have been debated and put in the proposed texts are too much and very important. The proposed changes to art. 19 are in Coliseum with the Penal Code and in direct conflict with the imperative provisions of the Commercial Law. The circle of persons responsible with persons with notarized powers to manage the overall activity is extended. I would like to point out that there is a risk of being used in the opposite direction. This is about the fact that the owners who sell their companies to underprivileged and unemployed Bulgarian citizens continue to manage through these powers. But if we accept this text, it means that tomorrow these same unscrupulous citizens and companies will begin to appoint commissioners to manage their companies and then they will bear that responsibility under art. 19. Understandable and necessary is the pursuit of change in the light of the caselaw, which repeatedly stresses that the Institute of Art. 19 of the DPC is not a means of overcoming the inaction of the public debt collection administration. But with the proposed changes, problems are not solved. On the contrary, an attempt is made to transfer responsibility elsewhere, which deepens the problem and enables administrative pressure and arbitrariness. The proposed changes lack legal definitions of hidden complicity, management of overall activity, indecency, majority and minority owner of capital. This Bill introduces the possibility of fiscal control over the movement of goods with high fiscal risk and with regard to excise goods. There is nothing wrong with that when the administration is on the field and makes checks to control the movement of excise goods. However, together with the extension of fiscal control and excise goods, it was appropriate to refine and improve the current regulation, which creates serious prerequisites for unjustified and unlawful administrative interference in the legal sphere of taxpayers. Unfortunately, there are serious doubts and concerns that such interference is being used and in the future can be used against correct taxpayers, who can literally be thrown out of the market by their political or economic undesirables and competitors. At present, there have been a serious number of judicial orders of administrative courts throughout the country which categorically reject as unlawful and, in many cases, as minor actions by revenue authorities in the application of preliminary safeguard measures in fiscal control. At least I couldn't find at least one court order to confirm the actions of the revenue bodies as legal. On the contrary, we can rightly argue that, at present, there are more than 100 definitions of administrative courts which reject the actions of revenue authorities as unlawful. Instead of proposing changes in this direction today, we are expanding the scope of the problems! With regard to the changes in the Law on the relief of payments in cash, once again we are doing and we are having a debate on reducing the amount to which these payments can be made, here again without a prior impact assessment. I would like to stress that we should not only have a preliminary impact assessment, but also a follow-up impact assessment, because just one year ago we were changing the bill and we need to know what the results of these changes are. Otherwise, we work in a piece and we become, as we say many times, that the National Assembly is becoming a rubber seal which only legitimizes the proposals submitted by the Council of Ministers. Restribution is offered where cash payments are limited for 2 years to 1000 BGN. There is no such practice in Europe! This will not help the process and limit the grey economy and we all know it well. Our assessment of this proposal is that it is a text lobbying in the interest of commercial banks, because in recent years they are mainly profiting from fees and fees for opening and servicing bank accounts, fees for maintaining and closing the bank account. Now there will also be charges for POS terminals and smaller stores if we allow this to happen. On the other hand, the introduction of this resuscitation will lead to new, not small and unnecessary costs for small and medium-sized businesses, and for all citizens, of course. These requirements are not justified. Once again, we appreciate them as lobbyists. Despite support for some texts and support for efforts to solve serious problems, there is no way we can support this bill on the previously stated reasons. We will make our proposals between the two readings and we trust that proposals for amendments to other laws, such as the Commercial Law and the Penal Code, relating to the so-made proposals in art. 19 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. Thank you. [[Applause for BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u11	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. - What's the line? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u12	Mr. Turnovallisky, I understand that you have the task of trying to justify the negative vote that your parliamentary group will make on the DOD. I listened carefully to your speech and understood from him the following. The main part of the DODC is about transposition of a European directive related to the requirements of the OECD (the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) to improve the interaction between the countries in order to avoid taxation; international norms, international arrangements that will in any event also help reduce the grey economy in Bulgaria, but you are against it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u13	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u14	Well, now we'll see how you vote. You are opposed to additional texts to limit the ability of majority capital owners to transfer to unemployed and socially weak citizens their indebted companies. You are opposed to seeking the opportunity for these people to respond jointly to these obligations with their own property. You are also opposed to the expansion of fiscal control, and as I later found out, you are opposed at all to fiscal control, whose measures brought about last year and this year continue to lead to additional tax revenues mainly from value added tax. As it expands on excise goods, I believe this will be transferred to excise revenue. You are also opposed to limiting cash payments, which is one of the options for generating a gray economy. You know that very well because you were a tax officer, Deputy Minister of Finance. I'm sorry because I'm sure you don't feel that way about these matters, but you are forced in front of this room to seek justification for your negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? I can't see! Mr. Turnovalyski, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u16	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, my task is to protect the interests of Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian business. When making these remarks, you should often remember what you swore in this room. You have understood from me what is being introduced with this Bill, but clearly you have not understood or it is more convenient for you that it has been tabled in violation of the provisions of the Law on Legislative Acts. You yourself have stated it in this House at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Finance and you know that this is the case. We support this, I said in my speech, changes in relation to the requirements of the two directives. We also support efforts to deal with the wicked practice of selling companies. This, however, is not the order and way to make legislation behind the back of all interested parties. We are not against fiscal control and I stated it, but here I have spoken and presented facts about the opinion and position of the Bulgarian court in relation to the cases in law. I was talking about the need for legislation to be changed in such a way that the administration is not put in a position to lose its share of bad and bad legislation. Mrs. Stoyanova, you understand better than I do how important these texts are. You understand much better than I do that they're against the law. We, the National Assembly, should not allow a violation of a law if we expect from the administration, from the Council of Ministers, from the Bulgarian citizens to comply with the laws that we create. You said it yourself in the room. You don't have the honor of doing lines in this direction. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Statements? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't understand the motives of colleagues on the left. The same were in the Budget Committee.. they are both for that the change in DPC is necessary in connection with the introduction of two directives; one is for the mandatory automatic exchange of information in the field of taxation; the other is also related to the automatic exchange of information for which directives we tolerate and will tolerate sanctions. This really is our main motive for making changes to DODK. On the one hand, colleagues agree with this thing, and on the other hand, they say that we are trying to pass other opinions along these directives. I ask my colleagues do not agree that in this way we make changes in art. 19 of the DPC, related to the sale of the enterprise, and by complicating the way in which the sale can be carried out, we complicate and expand the circle of individuals with the introduction of the sales commissioners, by trying to reduce and complicate the number of enterprises that carry large gaps in the budget, because we all know why people sell businesses and to whom people are sold, thus trying to protect a fisca. The BSP colleagues don't find that appropriate. I think that by going along this line to complicate the way of transfer, to bring in the hypothesis of hidden complicity, to bring in the notion of prejudice, we will reduce the way and the possibilities of transferring these enterprises. It is therefore necessary, in my opinion, to adopt the Law at first reading and if the people of BSP have any suggestions regarding, in particular, art. 19 of the PDK, because this is the big and serious debate that can be held on this article and is important for the fissure to do it. Otherwise, for everything else, I must understand that they do not want us to introduce a complication in the transfer of businesses and to remain in the same way as those who have obligations to transfer their companies with ease. In my opinion, what is done in DODK is necessary and we will vote and support it. I think that in the Budget Committee in the working groups colleagues, if they have constructive proposals, we will accept them and discuss them so that we can clear this text as well as possible so that it is good for the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. For lines? Here you are, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u20	Mr. Nikolov, you have made a mistake with this statement, with these calls to the left side of the House that you expect from them constructiveism and texts between first and second readings. You won't get any, Mr. Colleague. You will not receive because they do not have the capacity for such texts. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria", applause by GERB.]] And that's why they don't want us to accept it at first reading today. Because if they had the capacity, they'd be in it by now. We will see them between first and second readings how they support these texts in principle and how they will offer us to perfect them so that they become working and really the administration can work effectively and reduce the grey economy. You're mistaken, I think. Nice call you made, but I think it was in vain.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u21	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u22	Madam President, colleagues! Mr. Nikolov, you're really very confused, you're very confused. Obviously you are not very aware and are trying to confuse both the hall and the Bulgarian citizens. Well, it's not gonna work! We have clearly and categorically stated what we support, what we do not support, and why we do not support it. Irregular actions cannot be supported. No matter how interesting Mrs. Stoyanova is to be made, this is the truth. The Law does not meet the requirements of the Law on Legislative Acts. That's it, your proposals are on this level. With regard to changes in art. 19, for which you are here pleading to be accepted, we are "for" but to adopt working texts, effective texts. Can you answer me by changing art. A.D.K.A. 19, what's the effect of that? You don't want to follow the law and give an ex-post assessment. Okay, then tell me what the effect of the changes is. You suggested them, we voted them in this room again quickly, again thoughtlessly. What's the effect? How many cases have been lost by the NRA, how many cases have been won?! I want to tell you that if you see the statistics, you will be deeply disappointed. Do not try to insinuate things that we have not stated and a position that we have not stated. We are dealing with this vice, but not in the way that you offer it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Third line? Mr. Nikolov, come on in. VALENTIN NIKOLOV (GERB): I am interested, colleague, you are for, and you are voting against. That's what you're for and you're voting against, you're voting against, and you're voting against. So you're usually for when you go on the stand, but otherwise you always vote against each other. That's what I understand. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So you're against having additional fiscal control for goods that have an increased risk, that is, some excise or measure. You're in favour, but you're against it because you're voting against the whole philosophy of the Bill. I understand that if at second reading you are voting against a member, or there is a debate on it and you have abstained, but you are currently voting against the whole philosophy of this bill, that is, let us let these people continue. Yes, there may be problems in art. 19, but that's why we're trying to fix it, isn't it? That's why we offer it at first reading. And you, as such good experts, because you also have good experts in this left-wing party, you were also Deputy Minister of Finance, offer a proposal so that the acts of the NRA do not fall into court. Isn't that what we all want in this fisk? You are also in favour of, but you are voting against, to bring in POS terminals so that people can pay taxes and insurance without fees. Otherwise, you're in. You are also in favour of and are voting against to introduce these two directives. I can't understand your whole behavior. I don't mean to offend you, I won't say the word, but somehow schizophrenicly you're both in favour, and you're voting against everything that's important to the budget, because maybe you want us not to carry out the budget, not to have our country's good revenue, and to be able to in this way fail the government, but the results are that. We are struggling with the grey economy, and that is why we are making these changes. These changes, I suppose, will produce results as well as other changes that have been made before, because this happens every year, i.e. there are more revenues in the country. And I hope, I don't know if it will ever happen to you to manage, but you will also struggle to have more revenue in the budget so that you can implement your policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. For speech, Mrs. Christova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u25	Madam President, honourable Members! Today, once again, we will consider a bill that introduces changes in which we are not very sure that they will work effectively. Changes that have not gone under the order of public consultation without prior and subsequent impact assessment, or may prove premature and rather than ease the work of businesses and citizens, will squeeze an additional administrative burden between them. Discussions are almost all the amendments to the DOPC, which we will consider today. However, I will focus on some of the changes with which we from the Political Party are not in agreement. For example, § 1 of the Bill proposes changes which extend the circle of persons, the solidarity responsibility of which can be committed in accordance with art. 19 of the DCC for tax and insurance liabilities of legal entities. According to the new texts, one of the persons is those persons who, under a notarized power of attorney by the manager of the legal person, manage its overall activity and they will be responsible. Here, in our opinion, there are possible problems in the interpretation of the content of the demand itself when it is for managing the overall activity of the enterprise and when it is not. I am not sure that the importers have looked at all the hypotheses in this direction, because in a certain interpretation under the strokes of the law, accountants and lawyers of the companies may also come across. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 127a, para. 3 Another change came in, which may not be noticed at first glance. It provides for an extension of the scope of goods subject to fiscal control. Until now, it has not applied to goods under customs procedure. This means that, already for the movement of excise goods under customs procedure, the fiscal control authorities will be able to exercise in full the powers conferred on them, including.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Today, when considering the Bill, as Mr. Nikolov said just now, we do not know which excise goods will be included under customs procedure and will be subject to this fiscal control, as we know that they are determined by order of the Minister of Finance and this order is not yet a fact. We therefore vote more unaccounted for power of the Minister. I'm setting an example. You say all the goods. However, if liquid fuels are included in the scope of fiscal control, it may be that the State will twice receive collateral of a total amount of 50% of the value, 20% being on the supply value and 30% on the market value for the same commodity, as according to the provision of art. 176c. of the VAT Act "Provisions in money, in government securities or in unconditional and irrevocable bank guarantee is obliged to make any taxable person in connection with the supply of liquid fuels " the assumptions of art. 176c, para. 1 points 1 to 3 of the VAT Act. This and other similar cases will mostly reflect on small and medium-sized businesses, as they will have to freeze working funds in the form of collateral that is paid in advance. You know, if traders can't pay that collateral, the goods are confiscated by the state. And as Mr. Turnovallisky said, I agree with him, this could be used as a way to shift some companies from the market. In addition, the Bill does not set out the mechanism for the recovery of these collaterals in money and the release of bank guarantees. Thus, in practice, business is again trapped by the administration once again. Mr. Turnovallisky mentioned that there were many cases filed in this direction. § 60 of the Bill also provides for amendments to the Law on the limitation of payments in cash, proposing gradually within two years the eligible cash payments to be reduced to 1000 BGN. As we have already said, the requirements of the Law on Legislative Documents have not been complied with, not submitted for public consultation, without a prior and public impact assessment. This measure will also have the opposite effect. It will not contribute to a sharp contraction in the grey economy, but will reflect on ordinary people, on small and medium-sized businesses. They will be charged with additional bank costs. I draw attention to you, perhaps many of you do not know the fact that when paying with a bank card in a store or when paying services there is a commission that benefits the banks, and it is paid by the trader, ranging from 0,5% to 2,5% of the value of the goods sold, that is, the profit of the traders will be further reduced by these rates. In reality, this change and the increase in fees will be the most favoured representatives of the banking cartel. Colleagues, when will we work for the citizens of Bulgaria and stop defending corporate interests? If we are talking professionally in order for this change to be effective, first, the legislation which regulates the limits of cash payments must be changed. In the 2011 law in force on the limitation of payments in cash, which you know, since perhaps a large part of you have accepted it, is of 2 pages, general cash payments are given. In practice there are still many hypotheses as part of them are considered in the Ministry of Finance's indication of the same year, which came out two months after the Law, and it is 3 4 times longer than the Law. In this indication there are many controversial moments. One of them is that at this point it is not clear whether the penalty is due only by the payer of the income or by the recipient. That's what's causing big problems for the business and shoving it into another administrative maze. Another fact is that ordinary people do not know in detail the legislation to limit payments in cash. I'll give you an example. If a natural person has a contract for rent with another natural person and his rent is BGN 400. per month, he is not aware that the indication is written that when such a contract is concluded, I note that in the indication it says that the contract can be written or interpreting and he knows that he pays 400 BGN per month. and he says: Okay, I pay in cash these 400 BGN, but if he is not aware, after his contract has been concluded for a year, the total payment under this contract is BGN 4800. and the penalty of this person will be 25% of the payment made, i.e. BGN 1200. in the event of a first infringement, and in the case of a second infringement becomes BGN 2400. You must realize that the sanctions under this Law are very high. For natural persons in the first offence is 25%, for legal persons. 50%, for the second infringement... for natural persons 50%, for legal 100%. In addition, the lack of sufficient banking branches in small settlements, the time that will take money from one bank to another, the need for additional time and staff to service transfers, these are all factors that will slow down, and will not increase the speed of business development, respectively the economy. We at Voljja do not agree with the proposed changes, because we believe that after their introduction there will remain quite open loopholes, which, instead of supporting citizens and businesses, will burden them with even more administrative burdens. Fellow importers, it is good to think not only about the purely technical adoption of the laws, but about the effect they will have on business and the economy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from the Political Party.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u26	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Nikolov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u27	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I believe that this is a timely Law, this is, so to speak, a timely solution, a proposal from the administration for accumulated problems. In addition to the transposition of the European Directive, this relates to the transfer of indebted legal persons to under-letters and under-privileged persons. But I rather wanted to refer to § 60 because, I believe, it is not quite well placed. Why? In fact, imprisonment is proposed for the purpose of entering public goods, that is, the freedom to choose whether to pay by credit card or bank transfer, the freedom to have or not to have an account in a bank, the freedom to pay the fees of banks and so on, in order to deal with the gray economy and proceeds from direct and indirect taxes in the treasury, which will accordingly give goods to society. Will this effect, however, be achieved? I don't think so! First of all, because the current threshold of 10,000. lv. Putting 80% of the people in front of the society didn't have that kind of savings of 10,000. BGN, in order to be limited by this measure, but when you lower the threshold more and more and reach 1000 BGN, this inevitably covers almost all faces because a modern TV, a modern furniture exceeds those 1000 BGN. Will the imposition of this measure on individuals lead to this effect, provided that the administration has enough tools to fight the grey economy? Of course, with a little more effort. This is the fight against money laundering, the fight against the illegally acquired property and so on and so forth. This will in any case not allow to limit the large companies that abuse. For this reason, I also asked the administration, respectively, whether they have proposed a series of measures to limit the penalties for individuals and the limitation of that freedom, i.e. the fees from banks, the fees from the servicing of accounts and so on and so forth? They told me, well, no, they're commercial banks after all. But wait! What kind of individuals are they? We restrict individuals. Every single person in this country we restrict and deprive him of some of the freedom to choose so that he can help the state collect from the grey economy what it needs, indeed, properly owed taxes. Then why don't we limit the commercial banks? Why not limit legal entities and financial institutions that will benefit from this measure? Therefore, I believe that such a measure should be proposed in a complex of measures. Why do we not oblige legal entities to transfer wages solely and solely to an account but merely restrict individuals? A foreigner who will come to Bulgaria and has no faith in our banking system that we did not put skiming devices in the POS terminal, and will come with 10,000. EUR, as authorised in the country under Customs law, should he open an account here if he does not carry his credit cards? What if he's from a country where they keep their cash? So there has to be a series of measures. We cannot, with just one administrative measure and limiting individual freedom, decide on the lack of dealing with a particular task. I believe that this should be developed separately with a series of measures. I don't mind reducing the threshold, but this should be complex and not be an individual measure. That's why I think we should think about it. Otherwise, the bill is very good and I think it should be supported by all the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. For lines? I can't see. Mr. Dimitrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u29	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow Members, many positive and very negative things could be said on the proposed bill. I have suggestions, too. I believe that between the two readings then each one could also do, to protect, to convince his colleagues of their usefulness. In general, I can say that the very idea of the importers of the Bill to combat the grey sector with regard to the transport and distribution of such goods is good, but it is not clear to the end. Mostly vehicles above three tons are included, and those below three tonnes are of minor importance to you, are they undersized? Three tonnes of excise goods are a serious amount, a serious risk to the budget. And in the current text of art. 127a does not prevent excise goods from being included in this Order of the Minister of Finance for the monitoring of goods with high fiscal risk, but, as you can see, there are problems. It is good to clean, to be also in DODK, so that it is clear that all excise goods with high fiscal risk can be monitored, checked and therefore the state does not lose. The comparison is easy: for peppers and tomatoes can not, for cigarettes, alcohol and fuels can not. The fuel's kind of covered. An addition to art. 127a, para. 3 of the DPC fiscal control over the movement of goods at fiscal risk to be carried out also in respect of excise goods. In this regard, perhaps we should clear only al. 3 of art. 127, which shall be with the following text: does not apply to goods under a customs procedure, European legislation and practice shall be taken into account, with the exception of excise goods. That is, clearly and without appeal to be clear that for all excise goods there will be control by the National Revenue Agency. We have had this debate another time, whether only one institution, or if two are monitoring a high risk sector, whether this will not be better for the budget. I'm sure it'll be better! And at the moment, the NRA is doing extremely well with their obligations and the scope they have brings revenue. Let us extend this scope also with regard to all excise goods, to make sure that the revenue in the budget will be good. In this regard, proposals can be made between the two readings, but any attempts to adopt a law that does not actually contribute to the control of excise and risky goods is unacceptable. Fuel, alcohol and cigarettes have revenue in the budget with the highest proportion. We can't afford to go around them again. We'll make an offer between the two readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Alexandrov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, at first reading, as we all know of the old MPs that a law is being debated and voted precisely on his principles, on what is advocated in him and what he confesses, the philosophy of a bill is being voted on. The philosophy of this Bill is very simple, namely the fight against unclean practices that exist in our daily lives and most of all practices that are detrimental to the public interest, such practices that the National Revenue Agency and the Customs Agency must end. The provisions in art. 19 some say are not the best, but they can be refined between first and second reading very clearly, to become even better when absolutely all who are affected by the subject matter and are inside the subject matter are involved, much easier to become acceptable these provisions. Article 19 introduces solidarity responsibility for a certain circle of persons, extends the circle of persons, it is very clearly written: for those to whom a notary certified power of attorney has been issued to manage the company in full. That is to say, the opportunity to open a company of a no-interesting Bulgarian citizen to whom we have given 200 sq 300 BGN to give our personal document and then to manage and finally generate one harm to the treasury does not exist. Some will say: what would be the impact assessment? I will turn the question around and ask you: who can tell how many such cases are within a calendar year? Can anyone tell if they're constants or variables? How can you give an impact assessment of something that is to some extent variable and you will have to evaluate how it could occur in the future and how will the provisions that you propose affect? Yes, I agree with one thing that perhaps the text that was adopted in 2015 must be under ex post control, there must be some analysis to be provided to us, an analysis from which we can output as a basis on which we can step and say: these provisions have done work, they have not done work, they must be refined, they must be strengthened, where, how, why. The other thing on which it is based is the regulatory base of two Eurodirectives, and it is very clear to all of us that we are members of the Committee on Budget and Finance that we cannot fail to accept, as we are also able to tolerate sanctions from this. Yes, there is a text in one provision that has been commented on by the Commission, namely the possibility for local individuals to collect information when they have turnover of more than 100 million. BGN, within a calendar year and it was also said that between first and second reading will be refined. I switch to perhaps one problem text and this is the text in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law, where it is written that in the Cash Payments Act, payments in cash will somehow sharply decrease to the parameters of 1000 BGN. since 1 January 2019. This is a text that we cannot support. Between first and second reading, although supporting the philosophy of the Bill, as given to us at the moment, we will make a suggestion that this text will be dropped and the current norm, which is 10,000. lv. Only a year ago, the norm was 15,000. lv. It's 10,000 now. lv. and we do not know what the effect of it is, because there can really be given a far more accurate analysis than the provisions in art. 19. The other is that we need to analyse all European legislation: where are there such provisions, why have they arisen, what exactly should they arrange? Otherwise, the way in which the provision is currently recorded raises a suspicion that this is being done in order for commercial banks to generate revenue from transaction fees to the detriment of society. We cannot allow it without a precise and clear criterion how possible harm will contribute to reducing the unclean practices that would prevail, that is, the termination of unclean practices that arise, can be of greater benefit to the budget than are the fees to be generated. From here I make the following agreement: when some colleagues come out to speak about these texts, it will be nice to say the whole truth, too, because when we talk about POS terminals and payments at POS terminals that make the so-called lights, that is, we can very easily check or the tax administration to verify them, we have to make the agreement that not all commercial establishments comply with this rule, but even at the moment they make a roundabout by putting the so-called ATMs on their commercial sites and then the given citizen who wants to pay the given commercial site is obliged to pay the higher fee, drawing cash through ATM, passing by to pay the cash register. This is also part of these provisions, part of our disagreement to support them, because this also further generates higher revenues for commercial banks and is contrary to our understanding of the protection of society's interest. I will also call on my fellow Members, I know that perhaps all parliamentary groups will have mostly proposals in "Transitional and final provisions" on these provisions concerning cash payments. I think there is a solution for this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u32	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u33	Madam President, honourable Members! Regarding Mr. Alexandrov's speech, I would like to ask: what imposed for Bulgaria the threshold on a basis on which multinational groups of enterprises, when the mother is a taxable person for Bulgaria, should be for Bulgaria 100 million. BGN, provided that in the European directive which we introduce is 750 million. Euros? In the Commission, which I participate in to monitor revenue agencies...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u34	Mrs. Christova, would you like to extend the time of the group?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u35	How long do I have? Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u36	Extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u37	I asked this question to representatives of the National Revenue Agency and the Ministry of Finance: why in Bulgaria this threshold is very low, for us this threshold is very low 100 million. BGN, provided that in the Directive it is 750 million. Euros? The answer was that there are almost no such enterprises in Bulgaria to meet these criteria. You understand that this is an additional job, firstly, for those enterprises that have to draw up these consolidated accounts by country and, secondly, that this is an additional job again for the tax administration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. Any other lines? Mr. Alexandrov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u39	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague, the reason is this: the first is in the Eurodirection, as far as I am aware, this amount of 750 million. Euros are recommended. The second, yes, indeed in the Bulgarian reality, if we record 750 million. EUR for locals falls, I think only one company. The other, with a view to generating additional costs, when we have transparency and when the whole of Europe, the whole world, following the 2007 crisis, is going in the direction of brightening the turnover of tax agencies' incomes, and therefore we have no way of calling these costs that they, you see, are seriously detrimental. On the contrary, when a person operating on the territory of the country should operate with good faith. As a conscientious trader, he must maintain and provide in good faith the information requested by the control authorities. To a certain extent, I support that threshold being recorded within 100 million. BGN, as the scope of the companies that will fall under it is significantly greater than the requirements of the Directive. The other, which is, very often these directives are made for the whole European Union, not only in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code No 702-01-1, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. Vote 185 MPs: 102, against 80, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to next item on the agenda. THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTERATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING CODEX. Importers are Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u41	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. At its meeting on 7 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u42	Honourable Members, I request silence in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u43	The meeting was attended by: Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev, Supreme Administrative Court, Vice-President and Head of the Second College; Bulgarian Industrial Association: Mrs. Natalia Sabeva, Senior Legal Consult, Prof. Dr. Ivan Todorov is an expert in administrative law; and Mrs. Maya Manolova is the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that it was developed by a working group in the Supreme Administrative Court with the participation of representatives of the administrative doctrine. It aims to introduce measures for more efficient, fast and modern administrative justice. The legal provisions under which there is conflicting practice shall be revised and the electronic call and the institute of silent consent shall be introduced. The draft law proposes that appeals to a cassation court be dealt with in closed session, reducing the cases in which the Supreme Administrative Court is competent as the first instance. A major change in the code is the detailed arrangements of the Institute of Silence. The proposed amendment creates a prerequisite for a gradual transition from the presumption of silent refusal to silent consent, with the aim of reducing the administrative burden. The proposals for amendment and supplement of the Code create a legal opportunity for the exchange of certificates and documents in the administration to take place entirely by official means. The draft legislation introduces e-Justice measures in line with the priorities set in the Strategy for the Implementation of Electronic Governance and Electronic Justice in the Sector "Justice." The presentation of the bill was attended by Judge Magdalenchev and Prof. Dr. Todorov. Mr. Magdalinchev emphasized that it introduces the electronic call, establishing the presumption of silent consent and clarifying the provisions of the administrative contract and the agreement. He added that the proposed provisions propose that the cassation proceedings take place in closed session and include changes on the grounds of cassation and provide for the requirement in the cassation proceedings that the evidence be submitted with the cassation complaint itself, as well as the obligation for the cassation appeal and the cancellation requests to be rewritten by a lawyer or a legal lawyer. The transitional and final provisions propose amendments to a number of special laws aimed at ensuring that the Supreme Administrative Court is able to direct its activities into interpretation and uniformity of the caselaw. Mr. Todorov noted that the bill aims to reduce the administrative burden. With the envisaged amendments to art. 42 The documents necessary in administrative proceedings shall be made available to be exchanged through an electronic system for the exchange of documents and evidence located in state, judicial or municipal authorities, notaries, court contractors and other bodies or organisations authorised by law. The Bill also proposes an increase in state fees in justified and in line with the country's economic conditions, which does not prevent access to administrative justice. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Daniel Kirilov, Christian Mitev and Yavor Bojankov. Mrs. Manolova expressed her support for the Bill, noting that raising fees in cassation administrative proceedings will limit citizens' rights to justice. Mr. Popov pointed out that he would not support the Bill by congratulating the importers for the electronization, but between first and second reading, the texts should be refined. He pointed out that with the introduction of the silent consent more problems have been created in practice and that is why other mechanisms should be sought to stimulate the administration to do its job. Mr. Mitev expressed his support for the Bill, but stressed that there is concern about the state fees. He pointed out that they needed to be increased, but the size must be consistent with the property and incomes of the persons and to preserve the possibility of the citizens for cassation by not being charged too high fees. After the discussion the Committee on Legal Affairs held with 14 votes in favour, 3 votes in opposition and 3 votes in abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u44	Thank you, Mrs. Ivanova. Following the opinion of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u45	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. At a meeting held on 15 June 2017, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. The bill was presented by the MP Ms. Anna Alexandrova. According to importers, the amendment and the supplement of the law is necessary in order to adequately reflect the changes occurring in the nearly ten-year operation of the code. The change initiative is provoked by clearly identified problems, namely lack of measures to introduce e-Justice, lack of optimal distribution of cases between administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court, optimally effective administrative justice, inadequate amount of state fees in administrative justice. In the case of preserved philosophy and basic principles of the AKK, the proposed changes are numerous and important. Among them are: the introduction of e-Justice measures as a means of effective and rapid administrative process and administration of justice, and its introduction in accordance with the Sectoral Strategy for the Introduction of Electronic Governance and Electronic Justice 2014 The bill also provides for amendments to other laws concerning new legislative proposals. The change in DODK is essential and the current change in the conviction in dealing with and resolving disputes over judicial appeals against audit acts, as well as in the part about state fees and costs. Participants in the discussion expressed their principled support for the Bill, except for the proposed changes to the DPC. The latter found that it was not clear what was the impact assessment for interested parties and what would be the financial result calculated as a benefit and loss for citizens, organizations, administration, courts and municipalities. The representatives of the NRA defended the position that the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, of the nationally represented municipalities in Bulgaria, as well as of ministries and departments with decentralised structure should be required in order not to underestimate the financial and methodological consequences of such a change in criminality. According to their case law in tax matters, the change in their local jurisdiction will in no case lead to greater speed in solving them, nor to procedural economy and/or accessibility to administrative justice as expected. Rather, there would be complications in the administrative relationships and inefficiency of the procedure for both the affected persons and the administration and the fissure. In view of the data available to them, they conclude that the tax cases are not a factor that would significantly affect the workload of the administrative court concerned. In the discussion that followed, there was an opinion that between first and second reading proposals would be tabled, correcting the proposed change in the part of the DODK. After a discussion of the draft was held a vote which ended with the following results: 15 votes for the draft, 6 votes against the draft, without abstention, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft for amendment and supplement of the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u46	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear colleagues, guests of the National Assembly today are young people from Stara Zagora district. Please welcome them. [[Applause the MPs welcome the guests on the balcony.]] Following is the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u47	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 21 June 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Economy: Irena Nikolova, Head of the Department of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, Directorate of Economic Policies for Promotion and Katerina Nenova. The bill was presented by the MP Anna Alexandrova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to make changes arising from the ten-year implementation of the Code without changing the philosophy and basic principles of the current Administrative Procedure Code (APC). The Law introduces e-Justice, providing for the notification in a firm manner, combined with the service of the relevant documents and acts to the court by electronic means. The Code introduces effective and easily realistic notification and where electronic notification is not possible. Procedures are proposed to distinguish administrative contracts from the Institute of the Agreement and to remove the complexity of the matter which requires the implementation of most of the proceedings in order to issue individual administrative acts and appeal to administrative contracts. A legal definition of the Institute of the Agreement and an addition to the grounds for invalidity of the Agreement is proposed. An important change in the APC is the detailed settlement of the institute of silent consent. It is envisaged that, if it is governed by specific laws, non-exportation should be considered as silent consent to issue an act with the content requested by the applicant. It is considered that silent consent is an instrument that ignores the inaction of the administration. The possibility to appeal against the silent consent of the authority which issued the act under the conditions of tacit consent shall be dismissed. The case law of the Supreme Court on the application of the provision for the declaration of nullity of decisions given by the administrative courts is therefore contradictory, which is why the newly established art. 128a expressly settles the conviction of these claims. Importers shall propose justified fees for a cassation appeal, including at a maximum threshold for determining a proportional fee for the material interest of the case, in order to balance the principle of access to justice and the recognised need to introduce non-symbolical judicial charges. Fees in the first instance proceedings are maintained in the current low size, which is a guarantee of access to the court as protection against the administration. Whether in the case there is a determined material interest or not, the fees for the cassation appeal related to pension, social and health insurance are BGN 30. for citizens and 200 leva. for organisations and state bodies, thereby guaranteeing the rights of citizens from vulnerable groups. The possibility of a closed hearing in the cassation appeal shall be regulated. Quick deadlines shall be introduced to postpone and rule on cases. Changes allow for speeding up administrative justice by focusing the process of proving only in the first instance. It is envisaged that certificates and documents are required to be made entirely by official means. Additional guarantees shall be established against the inaction of the administration, providing for administrative courts to monitor silent refusals and to require evidence from the administrative authorities of their decision within the time limit. In view of the main objective of the Bill, it is envisaged that legal proceedings under a number of laws, which concern the verification of the legality of forced administrative measures of relatively low public importance, or which are characterised by a relative lack of legal and factual value and in which there is a relatively stable caselaw, should end at one court, excluding the possibility of a cassation appeal. There are corresponding changes to a number of laws. An Impact Assessment Report is attached to the Bill. The financial justification applied reflects both the necessary budgetary resources to finance the activities by 2020 and the estimated revenue in the judiciary budget from the increased public fees. In its opinion, the Ministry of Economy considers that, given the importance of the proposed legislative changes, they should be subjected to broad public consultation and formulated after an in-depth expert analysis. The MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) expressed considerations regarding the tacit consent and the amount of state fees. It was announced that a maximum deadline for proposals between first and second readings would be required. After the end of the discussion and the vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u48	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Following is the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u49	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. At an extraordinary meeting held on 21 June 2017, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, tabled by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Ms. Dessislava Atanasova. The proposed amendments and additions aim at introducing measures for more efficient, fast and modern administrative justice. The provisions of the administrative contract and the agreement shall be revised and further developed. One of the most significant changes to the Code is the detailed framework proposed by the draft of the Institute of Silence. The proposed amendment creates a prerequisite for a gradual transition from the presumption of silent refusal to silent consent, with the aim of reducing the administrative burden. The bill provides for appeals before a cassation court to be dealt with in closed meetings. A reduction in the cases in which the Supreme Administrative Court is competent as the first instance is envisaged. The bill introduces e-Justice measures in line with the priorities set out in the Strategy for the Implementation of Electronic Governance and Electronic Justice in the Sector of the Justice 2014 - 2020 and introduces the e-call. The proposed amendments and additions to the Code create a legal opportunity for the exchange of certificates and documents in the administration to take place entirely by official means. The documents necessary in administrative proceedings are intended to be exchanged through an electronic system for the exchange of documents and evidence found in state, judicial or municipal authorities, notaries, court contractors and other bodies or organisations authorised by law. The Bill also proposes an increase in state fees to an extent that does not prevent access to administrative justice. Changes have also been proposed to clarify some of the legal provisions on which there is conflicting practice. The Commission has provided opinions to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the Bulgarian Industrial Association, expressing the principle of support to the Bill, while making specific remarks and proposals for changes to individual provisions. The Bulgarian Industrial Association disagrees with the increase of the fees for cassation appeal. In the course of the discussion, the MPs who spoke supported the Law in principle, while paying attention to the need to refine individual provisions in accordance with the opinions of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. A disagreement was also expressed with the changes providing for the non-removableness of certain acts, as well as the proposed amendments to the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 12 votes for the Council, without the opposition, and 7 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, proposed to the National Assembly the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, tabled by Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs, to be adopted in the first vote..........................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u50	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Following the opinion of the Defence Committee. Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u51	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present to you: ♪ I can't believe on the discussion of the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16 At a regular meeting held on 15 June 2017, the Defence Committee examined for a first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. There were 18 MPs present. The Chairman of the Defence Committee briefed the members of the committee on the order of the President of the National Assembly on the distribution of the Bill between the Standing Committees. The bill amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code was presented on behalf of the importers by Ms. Anna Alexandrova, Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs. According to the importers, the proposed Bill aims, without changing the philosophy and basic principles of the Administrative Procedure Code, to introduce measures for more efficient and modern administrative justice after the nearly ten years of application of the Code, to specify the legal texts on which there is a conflicting practice, to fill gaps in regulation, to reflect the current stage of electronic communication, to introduce specific deadlines for the increasingly essential application of the electronic identification and communication, to ease the work of the Supreme Administrative Court and as a final result to lead to an effective, transparent and rapid administrative process and administration. The opinion of the Ministry of Defence was presented by Mrs. Clementina Deneva Director of the Legal and Normal Activities Directorate and Colonel Ignat of the Spanish Deputy Director of Human Resources Management. According to the Ministry of Defence, the bill is of particular importance and radically changes the fundamentals of the Administrative Procedure Code. It is therefore necessary and timely. However, the amendments and additions to the Law on Defence and Armed Forces, proposed by § 137 of the Draft Law, according to the Ministry of Defence, are not appropriate: they lead to the abolition of the powers of the Minister of Defence, delegated to him in the management of the chamber policy and in practice do not lead to the unloading of the Supreme Administrative Court, as a minor number of cases during the period 2010 - 2017 were addressed to the Supreme Administrative Court by the Ministry of Defence. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Plamen Manushev, Vladimir Toshev, Boris Vangelov and Milen Mihov. In their speeches, they supported the First Voting Bill, stressing the need to take account of the Ministry of Defence's proposals for amendments to § 137 before considering the Second Voting Bill in plenary. Ms. Anna Alexandrova stated readiness, on the part of the importers, to comply with the opinion of the Ministry of Defence between the first and second votes of the bill. 18 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. By 12 votes for the defence committee, 6 votes against the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for amendment and supplement of the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by the National Representative Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u52	This was the opinion of the Defence Committee. Thank you, General. Popov. Allow me to give the floor for an opinion of the importer. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u53	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honored guests! Indeed, the bill that we have presented to your attention is causing a very serious analysis of one of the main procedural codes in our law. This is a code under which more than 10 years of practice has been established, including a permanent, stable case-law on its implementation. Usually, the 10-year period is a time at which it is appropriate to carry out a thorough analysis with a view to improving the functioning of each regulatory act. This is also the case with the Administrative Procedure Code. I would like to begin with the fact that this Draft Law was developed by a working group of judges in the Supreme Administrative Court under the leadership of the Vice-President of the Supreme Administrative Court Boyan Magdalenchev, together with Judge Anna Nikolova Representatives of the administrative doctrine took part in the working group: Prof. Ivan Todorov, Prof. Dimitar Kostov and Prof. Dimitar Kostov. Doncho Hrusanov. In the final phase in the work of the Commission took also the domain of administrative law science Prof. Lazarov Cinema. This bill was also of our attention at the forty-third National Assembly. It was then imported by Nayden Zelenogorski and a group of MPs. He received an acute reaction both in committees and as opinions of interested organisations. In the version we offer to your attention, much of the negative opinions received in the Forty-third National Assembly are reflected accordingly. Allow me very briefly to present some of the main advantages of this comprehensive, wide-ranging bill. What motivates fellow lawyers from our parliamentary group to support this bill, first of all, is the development in terms of silent consent. The changes proposed by this Bill allow for a smooth transition from the presumption of silent refusal to the silent consent rule. These cases and procedures, where that would be admissible, will be developed in the relevant Law. We believe that this is a serious first step in fulfilling our commitment to reducing the bureaucratic burden on citizens and businesses. Along with the basic introduction of the silent consent are the changes that concern the requirement of certificates, documents and part of the administrative criminal provisions. With regard to the certification documents, the practice of citizens and persons travelling around data administrations and information available to them and able to provide it to each other and to each other shall be terminated. The administrative criminal provisions by imposing penalties for disregarding the effect of silent consent shall ensure its application and its exercise. The sanctions are justified and follow the current administrative penal apparatus of the current Administrative Procedure Code. In this respect, the Bill has yet another serious achievement, which is related to improving justice and the work in the judiciary in terms of electronization in administrative proceedings. A flexible and reasonable means are envisaged with regard to the summoning of persons, an obligation to announce an e-mail address is envisaged even when an application is lodged, the document with which the administrative proceedings are initiated, thus making it essential to alleviate the summoning procedure and save time. The provisions concerning electronic administrative matters shall be improved. Here I want to open a clamp and say that this is also a first step. Yes, we are implementing the E-Justice Strategy, what we have announced as our management programme and principle in terms of justice, but here I will say that after this step there will be a much more serious development than the Council of Ministers, which concerns the electronization of the administration and the provision of electronic administrative services. A serious advantage of the Bill is the fact that we are developing a matter which we have begun to work in the past National Assembly. The matter of the administrative treaty in relation to the newly adopted European Fund Management Act. We believe that the improvements proposed in this Bill cover not only controversial proceedings in relation to national and European funds, but cover all the materials in which we have an administrative agreement. This is also a serious and useful step forward. I will not talk about the other advantages, but I will mention two points that have been highlighted in committee discussions. We have proposed a change in the definition of state fees. This change is not for the first instance, but for the cassation proceedings. The change is 90 BGN for individuals and 450 BGN for legal persons. In cases where there is a determined material interest, a change is also proposed concerning a proportional fee, but with a upper limit, with a ceiling. I will point out that the maximum fee with interest of up to 10 million. lv. is BGN 3400 and in case of interest over 10 million. lv. The maximum fee is 9 thousand. BGN, which is less than one thousand of the interest. We believe that in these cases a adequacy will be created between material interest and cost value in order to administer such a dispute and that there will be a barrier against handling complaints, especially in the industries which have a high interest. I will stop here because my time as an importer is over, but perhaps in my expo I will take an opinion further on the change that concerns the Ministry of Defence, and if there are lines on matters that concern the modification of family jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. This was an opinion on behalf of the importers. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u55	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, the Group of the United patriots will support the proposed Draft in the first vote, mainly due to its main dignity................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I believe that the proposed arrangements put in place a mechanism for the real introduction of the silent consent, which will ease citizens and businesses in their activities and the replacement of the principle that now exists a silent refusal, creating quite and lasting problems for those involved in various administrative proceedings. The right approach is to introduce silent consent when it comes to special production in special laws, and not to apply general arrangements everywhere, as we have specific activities where there is no way that silent consent can be automatically introduced without taking into account the specifics of the relevant administrative act which is to be issued. The bill also has other merits. The introduction of the initial step of electronic production by e-invoicing. By calling by electronic means, it is intended to find solutions that now exist with the service of subpoenas in the administrative process. I believe that the rules protecting citizens and legal entities to a certain extent from possible abuse have been given a operative character by using the means of e-invoicing. Here we can consider amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance in order to have greater efficiency and security in carrying out the call by electronic means. Improving the procedures for actions for declaring nullity of decisions and orders given by the administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court is another achievement of the bill, as well as the introduction of another ground for annulment of a judgment where it is contrary to a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. Good proposals for improving the framework of the administrative contract are good. It was mentioned by the importer that this arrangement was made by the previous Chamber of the National Assembly. Here we see its development. Unfortunately, however, there remains the problem of state fees and the changes that are being introduced there. We increase the fees in times for natural and legal persons. It is true that they are for the Cassation Authority, but the administrative procedure is two-in-one, not one-in-one. I believe that, with these dimensions, we will actually not find it difficult to access, but directly to refuse justice in relation to a large group of citizens and legal entities who are contesting the first instance decisions of administrative courts. In the reasons, the main focus is that the amounts are now low, that they have not been reviewed and that we will have more revenue in the budget. This is not enough for me and not a well-founded request for the introduction of the excessive size of 90 BGN for individuals and 450 BGN for legal entities. The administration of justice must be fair, and it must not give in to other principles which it is trying to introduce to the applicant I am referring to the landing of the Supreme Administrative Court. Unloading can be achieved in another way. Such attempts have been made with regard to the change of family conviction in the cases in the APC Amendment Project. In the same way, the problem of proportional fees stands. I do not think that we should automatically talk about material interest when we are talking about administrative justice and contesting administrative acts where there is reason for the applicant to believe that they are unlawful. The basis of administrative justice is not the achievement of a financial result. We must not mix things with the civil process where we have the material interest of a natural or legal person who claims otherwise. The main focus here is on acts and actions of the administration which the applicant considers illegal. We should not introduce property criteria here and it should be a leader to determine the fees in these cases and these proceedings. In conclusion, I will also say in relation to some changes proposed in the case under the Law on Protection of Competition and the Law on Public Procurement. I think it is not appropriate for us to have a change of conviction there in view of the fact that we currently have a very good specialization of the Supreme Administrative Court in dealing with these cases as a first instance and would rather be an experiment, and it is not good in my opinion to transfer them to the Administrative Court of Sofia-City. The opinion expressed by the Commission for Protection of Competition is similar. With this, I once again express our support in general in philosophy and fundamental principles enshrined in the Bill by declaring that we will make changes between first and second reading especially in the part about state fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u56	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to the statement made? I won't. Any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you are, dear Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u57	Madam President, colleagues. The APC has been applied for almost 11 years and for this period the Code has regulated relations in the administrative process as a common procedural law. This is an area particularly sensitive to citizens and their institutions, as administrative courts are called upon to ensure the lawful application of the Law by the administrative authorities. It is generally known that procedural rules in procedural codes are adopted precisely in order to protect and guarantee the subjective rights of citizens and organisations either in the civil, criminal or administrative process. Colleagues are proposing today a bill that amends and complements the Administrative Procedure Code, many of its institutes, and also proposes introducing new ones. The amendment, as shown by the reasons for it, is also agreed with a part of the professional community. The most important thing is that the legislative technique of the Bill allows us to draw up certain policies and objectives that stand out: speeding up the administrative process while ensuring the rights of the participants in it, reducing the administrative burden and unloading of the Supreme Administrative Court, ensuring a qualitative implementation, namely of its constitutionally appointed function, the Supreme judicial control of the administrative acts. At the same time, however, a positive assessment of the bill cannot be given. Both some institutes and concrete proposals for legal norms, legislative texts can be challenged. I'm gonna take the liberty of taking a step-by-step approach to the proposals. With regard to e-Justice. In view of the principle of e-government entirely in the public administration, in view of the new public relations and the digitalisation of society, it is quite normal for the legislator to look for a way for the judiciary not to remain in the past, but to use modern technologies in a way that will also lead to speed in the process, but while preserving citizens' rights. At the same time, however, although a good idea is in my opinion a notification by e-mail or even by SMS would initially cause a lot of problems, since firstly, the condition of the technical base of the participants in the process is not the same. In addition, such a cardinal change must be accompanied by amendments to the Law on Electronic Governance, which also addresses the opinion on the draft Law of the National Association of Municipalities. The Administrative Contract and Agreement. The desire for regulatory clarity between the two institutions should be shared. As well as the clear definition of the prerequisites for invalidity, as is known to fellow lawyers, one is the invalidity of administrative acts and another of unilateral transactions or bilateral agreements under the DPA, to which the legislator will now refer in connection with the administrative contract. With regard to silent consent. From an exception, it is proposed to become a principle of special law cases. A positive consideration can be given to this intention to take place gradually, but there should also be a concern that, initially, the lack of practice, both in citizens and in their administrations, in their organisations and in the administrative bodies themselves, will lead to serious confusion and problems in my opinion. It was also a coincidence that in the Forty- Third National Assembly, the Draft Law was not only discussed by the Reformers and the Patriotic Front in the Legal Commission, and then some of the importers put forward arguments in this direction................................................................................. The claims to declare nullity of judgments, the determinations of administrative courts and the Supreme Administrative Court should be shared with the proposed change, there is such an institute in the GPC and it is normal to have it in the administrative process by resolving the proposed change in a theoretical legal dispute in a way which I personally share. The main issue of state fees. It is logical for the issue of fees to cause the most serious and broad public debate. For a long time the door of the Administrative Court of Administrative Justice has been much wider open than that of the civil process, including with the minor fees paid to bring an administrative case. Also with the lack of time limits in the administrative process for the introduction and collection of evidence. Now, with several specific texts, changes in the APC, including by providing for higher fees, are aimed at unloading the Supreme Administrative Court. The final goal is a good one again, but I believe that the amount of fees should be better and even properly argued and determined. What do I mean? The arguments pointing out by the importer in the reasoning are arguments regarding the burden of the court, whereas the State Fee Act determines that a state charge must be relevant to the costs incurred to carry out the service for its provision. So an increase in fees may be considered, in my opinion, but it must be justified by the value. Apart from that, the arguments set out in the opinion of the Commission's Law on Protection of Competition are also pointed out that the charges must be set in a tariff and not in a code. And that is understandable to fellow lawyers, because codes and laws are regulations governing long-term public relations, which cannot be said about the amount of fees. The cassation proceedings. The cassation proceedings generally deserve the idea of signing the cassation complaint by a lawyer. It is an institute that exists in cassation production in the civil process and is logically transferred to the administrative process. Indeed, the two supreme courts are the final instance in the judicial disputes of the citizens and their organizations with the administration, and therefore the cassation complaint as an institute must be carefully prepared because it is also the last chance. So signing is a logical institute, which may guarantee the regularity and to some extent the basis of the complaint. On the contrary, however, I do not accept and believe that the possibility of a closed session in cassation should not be introduced. Why? Because, first of all, courts should respect the principle of directness and orality, even the supreme ones. And pleading before the court, even more so when in the administrative process the principle exists for a two-installed judicial review is important in my opinion. You cannot deprive citizens of the right to stand before the Supreme Court and plead. This should be taken into account by the importer. With regard to certificates and documents. The collection of documents entirely by the administration by official means should, in my opinion, be undoubtedly supported. Indeed, this will initially create serious tensions in administrations, because it is a new way of working, but it will benefit citizens, their organisations. This will really help to implement the principle of integrated administrative service introduced in the Administrative Procedure Code in spring 2014. With regard to the administrative criminal provisions offered to us. The revision of the procedure for establishing and sanctioning non-export within the administrative authorities should be shared. However, as the importer does in the reasoning, it cannot be said that there is a silent refusal here, after the changes themselves introduce the institute of silent consent. Changes are also proposed in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code with amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code. They're important, so I'm gonna take a look at them. The proposed change of local defendants to the first instance tax cases. Until now, tax cases as the first instance before a court are seen in administrative courts which are at the headquarters of the territorial directorates of the NRA, which has been established for years of practice, are now being proposed by all administrative courts to deal with such cases. I believe that this is correct in view of the fact that each of the administrative courts, as a set of judges, have met the same requirements as the formations of courts, and they also have the same family competence, it is logical that each of them should be able to look at tax cases. At the same time, it should be borne in mind that the professional community is not united in its support for this proposal and it does not meet support everywhere, because, firstly, in these administrative courts, a certain specialization of the chambers dealing with tax cases was created, which is good for the speed of the process and for the correctness of the judgments. Secondly, this case to be dealt with where the NRA's territorial directorate is, greatly alleviates the parties in the process, because evidence is being submitted quickly and the case is also speeding up as a procedure. With regard to the changes in DPCs, an amendment of the fees is also proposed, which is what I have already said about the total charges in the APCs, that they must be in line with the costs. The family conviction was only marked by a colleague who spoke before me. The changes are aimed at the landing of the Supreme Administrative Court, which, as I said, is good, but the specific decisions in my opinion are not without question. It is also necessary to take into account the Commission's position on competition, which is given in the Draft Law, which states that the proposed amendment takes account only of the decisions of the KPC, while they rule with at least four other types of acts, which are cited in the opinion for which the draft does not refer. Also, it should not be shared that my objection here is quite serious.. the proposed cancellation of the cassation proceedings in some specific procedures, e.g. under the Municipal Property Act, for the conservation of agricultural land and others, and the conversion of administrative judicial control into one-instance. This, in my opinion, would violate the principle of two-in-oneness of judicial control and ultimately restrict the right to protection of citizens and organisations. In view of all this, taking into account the seriousness of the volume of the legislative act that is being proposed to us and of everything that the importer has done, the BSP Parliamentary Group at first reading will refrain from supporting the specific bill, as it, although it contains anticipation and good proposals, provides for restrictive, controversial and needing fixes texts. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines, fellow Members? For the line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u59	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable Member! I listened carefully to your statement. In one part, it's quite reasonable, but I'm particularly concerned with silent consent, as mayor with eight years of experience. Even as mayor of Plovdiv, I turned to the parliament at the time and to all parliamentary groups with the idea of introducing this silent consent. At the time it seems that the moment was not ripe and no parliamentary group took it as an initiative. I am convinced, however, that there are other mayors of major cities in the hall. I see here is the mayor of Smolyan, the former mayor of Asenovgrad is here. I'll just tell you a few things. If today we accept silent consent as a principle in our administration, I think this is one of the best things this Parliament will do. I'm saying it out loud! So far, the principle is exactly the opposite of the principle which introduces the whole of Europe, precisely, which we are currently trying to synchronise with them. Right now, we're on the opposite side of the line a silent refusal. Believe me, at the moment administration creates a huge opportunity and a huge door for corruption. What do citizens and businesses want? They want two things: quick administration, first of all, and, second of all, good attitude and integrity of the institution concerned to them. This will enable silent consent to achieve these two things. We'll just make the administration work faster, first of all, and, second of all, we cut off a huge opportunity for corruption practices. I repeat: we are cutting off a huge opportunity for corruption practices. What's usually going on? I'm just saying it from experience. The citizen or businessman goes to the respective administrator and he says: "Listen to what. If I don't move your papers, you go in silent denial, and as they say, I put the folder on the ulevo and go pity whoever you want to say it in the most bitter and unpleasant way. That is why I am telling you that I am surprised that my colleague has actually made an unserious argument that would create difficulties in implementing it. Of course, it will create difficulties, as for the first time we are changing the administrative system in this direction. Believe me, the change in art. 57 of the Administrative Procedure Code will indeed revolutionize administration and I tell you there will be resistance. A small part of the mayors in the country are currently not going to agree with this principle.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u60	Mr. Atanasov, that's a line. Perhaps you'd like to continue with your speech?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u61	I'm sorry. I'm out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u62	Thank you. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u63	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Member Milkov! The analysis was moderate, balanced, I would say that I share much of the arguments you have put forward. In connection with your presentation, however, I would like to say the following. Yeah, it's about electronic control. In any case, detailed and detailed changes to the relevant law. In terms of state fees. For me, it is important the expression that you used to use the wide-open door. Having taken into account this important circumstance, I think it is possible to balance the amount of fees with moderation, so that they are adequate and corresponding to the actual costs that are being incurred and to refrain from abuse, because I do not think that BGN 450. is a lot to appeal against a tax audit act or another act, or a 10 million-dollar document, and I have indicated to you that for 10 million is also a moderate fee. With regard to the arguments for the KPC, I think that the opinion of the KPC makes a lot of sense and we should consider it. However, these are the Supreme Judges' proposals in terms of conviction, and we should also discuss them in good faith. I would continue to argue and we would continue to argue between first and second readings, and at second reading about the meaning of the closed session. For DODK, I support what you say, in the sense, we should actually do a very precise analysis, such as balancing things so that we do not change the accumulated positive practice so far in tax matters, but also in some way unload to the extent possible and administrative justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u64	Thank you for the second line, Mr. Kirilov. Third line? Is there a third line, colleagues? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u65	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! First of all, regarding Mr. Atanasov's line. I am glad that he has listened to me carefully, however, to repeat: we are for the Institute and we support the Institute. From a student more than 17-18 years ago, studying administrative law, professors, who you mention in the motives, advocated this opinion. After that, as a lawyer, I have repeatedly faced personally the need for silent consent. Here, however, we need to speak not only in a personal capacity but also in consideration of the possible problems and consequences of the actions that we are taking. That is why I have expressed concerns about the introduction of the Institute, but I say again that we are....................................................................................... The Institute in this Draft is proposed to be introduced, phased into the legal system, in separate draft laws, back to what you discussed in the Law Commission on 5 March 2015, when the Patriotic Front proposes a total introduction of the Institute. That's what I said in my speech, and I say again, we're about to. Regarding the lines of colleague Kirilov. We are of an absolutely clear uniform opinion about e-governance when changing the e-governance law, which I also said is necessary, he confirmed it in the case of state fees. I do not agree that it should seem to me whether the fee is high or not or to feel it. I tell you again, and you agreed in your speech that they should be directed and justified according to the value of the service, just so it says in the Law on State Fees. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u66	Madam President, honourable Members! It is undoubtedly the lawmaker's desire to speed up the process and the proposals in this direction are indisputable. The point is not to lose the balance and, in pursuit of this objective, to limit access to justice and the right to a fair trial. It is precisely the controversy about the issue of fees that raises such doubts, and my colleague before me was right that the fees should not be restrictive or encouraging. Fees must rest on common sense and logic to obey the Law, and the Law is very clear: the fees cover actual costs incurred. I'm setting a specific example here, colleagues. In the proposed ID of the APC fees do not comply with the Law, because for example the fee for the state and municipalities is 90 BGN and for organizations 450. So where's the principle of cost-orientedness? How do we really motivate this? Higher costs in the process for organizations and lower costs for the state? This also creates discrimination. But whatever charges we set, however, the citizens so far have, and I, and each and every one of you, had the right to defend our rights and interests before the court. And a lot of taxis fell in court. But, notice, colleagues, pay attention, this is important: we need to consider whether the place of the fees is in the Law. So far, they've been in tariff, under the law. And that gave them the right and easy access to every single one of them to appeal. Now, when we define them in the Law, we will first change them very hard, and secondly, citizens can defend their rights only to the Constitutional Court, and the methods of its referral are extremely limited, the regime is very restrictive. Thus, we take away the right of citizens to defend before the court if they feel that the fees are not justified. So I appreciate the fact that the importers say a wide open door. That's why our opinion evolved against...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u67	The colleague said it, I support the notion of wide...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u68	Don't talk from the ground! Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u69	Our thesis is such a point by.... on the basis of your arguments, which we accept, we will now abstain because these are serious handicaps in the Bill and I hope that if you also hear our proposals, we will ultimately support it and a good bill will come out of this, which will find the balance between rapid production and citizens' interests. Because if you are overwhelmed with cases, this is due to the poor work of the administration. To be honest, the AKK does not provide for either encouragement or punishment of the administration to stimulate it and it to solve the problems in the administrative production phase, but we resort to fees as an instrument to solve a problem. But fees cannot be such an instrument, colleagues. I hope this discussion will continue constructively in this direction. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u70	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u71	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! A very short line because colleague Bojankov also commented on specific sizes. I ask you to imagine, to explain, to say: is the fee of 15 BGN costing. For a complaint? What's he covering? Does it cover lists, toners, consumables, other consumables and postal expenses, not counting people's work in all production? This is a fee of BGN 15 when the applicant is a citizen, or BGN 45 when he is a legal person. Do they cover that 45 leva? sometimes three sittings, sometimes five-members, not to mention three-members, sometimes five-members? I do not think that the work and values in Bulgaria are so low. Yeah, ten years ago, there was some logic to be preferred, and that's exactly those values, so that the door to administrative justice would be wide open, but if we argue by size, we're open to debate. It is important that we define a logic that we follow. It also makes sense in what you say: if we can establish the principle in the Law, it is okay for the size to be in tariffs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there a second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u73	Dear Mr. Kirilov, I agree with you that one fee of 15 leva. does not cover the costs, but this confirms my thesis that the fee should be cost-oriented and a proportional fee of 9000 BGN may also not cover the costs and this is equally unfair. If the regime has not been fair in the past, it does not mean that we need to repeat it now, but in the opposite direction - instead of very low - to make them very high. And logic, I say again, must be subject to the Law, and it is very clear in this regard. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u74	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm calling off the debate. Honourable Members, we are proceeding to a vote. I put to the first vote the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code with importers Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs submitted on 1 June 2017. Please, voting mode. They voted 159 MPs: 118, against 1, abstention 40. The motion is accepted. Then we rest for 30 minutes, then we continue with the next item on the agenda. [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u75	Honourable Members, we are continuing the plenary session. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Otherwise, the way I see it, there will be a name check. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that they be admitted to the Chamber Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs, and Mr. Boyko Ranovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u77	We are voting on this proposal, it was not the committee report, it was only an admission procedure in this House. Please vote, honourable Members. Cease the vote one minute is up. There's no quorum, I'm asking for the roll call list. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Dinev Todorov - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - absent Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - absent Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - absent Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zhivko Ivanov Martinov - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nina Peycheva Mitkova - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - absent Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here In addition are enrolled Atanas Stoyanov, Boris Borisov, Valentin Naydenov, Adlen Shevked, Ahmed Ahmed, Velislava Krasteva, Alexander Sabanov, Dencho Boyadzhiev, Ivaylo Konstantinov, Kiril Kalfin, Vecdi Rashidov, Altimir Adamov, Peter Petrov, Daniela Daritkova. We have a quorum, and we can move on. First, let's vote on the proposal for admission to the Chamber of Deputy Minister Tzipov and Boyko Ranovski's Head of the DMV. They voted 165 MPs: 164 against 1, no abstentions. Please invite them to the gym. We are now proceeding to the Report. The report will be presented to you by the President of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on a Draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act No 754-01-17, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. The second vote is on the draft. Law amending the Road Traffic Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u79	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 165 MPs: for 164, against none, abstention 1. The text of the importer for the name of the Law has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u80	Under Paragraph 1, there is a proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 165, para. 2 t. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. identify by placing road signs, making public in the mass media or on the website of the Ministry of Interior the section of the road on which traffic rules are controlled by mobile automated technical means; The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u81	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 161 MPs: 30, against 77, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 1, supported by the Commission. Vote 158 MPs: 136 against 6, abstention 16. Paragraph 1 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u82	§ 2 has no suggestions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u83	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! The two texts of art. 171, p. 2 (e) and 2 (e) 2a of the Road Traffic Act, previous texts have been in force since 21 January 2017. Since then, five months have passed and four months have passed since the implementation of the Law. I am saying all this because there is a change today, and there is an extremely impractical approach in both texts from the previous vote. They contain significant vices. I'd say it's like the original sin. Today, changes are being proposed entirely, which, rather than sanitizing, strengthen the texts, expand their scope by deepening their vices. What do I mean, talking about all this? The Law on Road Traffic, in the section on Appeals.?....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 189, para. 14, points to the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments, in which art. 13 It is said that the following administrative penalties may be imposed for administrative misconduct: public reprimand, fine and temporary exercise of a profession or activity. In this case, restriction of ownership does not fall within the paragraph of those restrictions. This immediately leads to significant contradictions. Speaking of property in general, these two texts do not take into account the different types of property it has. More precisely, it is very easy when a car is owned by only one person. But problems arise when it is in a marital financial community; when the car is in some ownership acquired by inheritance or otherwise; when the car is owned by a company; when the car is state or municipal; when the car is leased. Life can suggest many other hypotheses. How do you proceed when a driver who drives a car without the knowledge of the owner uses alcohol or commits another administrative violation? This, on the one hand. On the other hand, there is a colosis between the two texts. What do I mean? I'm setting a hypothetical example with myself. If I am the owner of a vehicle that allows my own vehicle to be operated by a third party who has committed the administrative infringement, then the text of this. Article 2 (b) and (c) of the Code 171 provides that the vehicle will be stopped for a period of one month. At the same time, if this person is the co-owner of the car and he used alcohol, then the car itself will be deregistered for a period of six months to one year. There is immediately a contradiction: on the one hand, I carry the administrative punishment for one month, and on the other, because of the wrong behavior of the other co-owner, I am punished with the inability to use the car for another year. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm saying all this because it means that this text is bypassed. And that's how it's gonna be, because I'm a lawyer, I'm talking to you from law practice. The easiest thing is to formally transfer the ownership of the car to a third party and keep the driver driving it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u85	Thank you, Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u86	At the same time...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u87	Time's up, Mr. Stoyanov. I'm sorry, thank you. Hey, guys, any lines? Statements? [[Heckling]] Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Indeed, colleagues, this case is quite specific.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u89	It's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u90	Yes, a statement. I would ask either the colleague, the chair of the Legal Commission Mr. Danail Kirilov, or the colleagues from the Ministry of Interior to explain how it would be handled in such cases as the example of the colleague, two co-owners, one driving with alcohol: is the movement of the car stopped, is registration removed? To make it clear at all, as this is an issue that is interesting for society and the media to reflect the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u91	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines? If there is no statement or personal explanation, Mr. Kirilov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try to legally justify the logic of such a sanction in the following sense. The owner owns, he owns an item. The right to property shall include the right to manage and dispose of this property as owner and the right to use it and dispose of it. When I own a motor vehicle, I decide whether to give it to my colleague Ivan or colleague Peter. I consider whether my colleague Ivan is willing to break traffic rules, or whether it is better to give my own property to another colleague, who I know is stricter in compliance with the Law, as I have the option not to give it at all. It's my thing, and I'm the only one who can use it. To explain co-ownership, I have to explain ownership, because co-ownership is a hypothesis, a complication of ownership. For this reason, I, as the owner, will, yes, bear the consequences of the actions of Ivan or the other colleague when he violated the Law. Yeah, I'm gonna have to put up with the fact that by breaking the law, the penalty, the deregistered or downloading license plates, it's hurt me. But I'm gonna jump to conclusions on how to run my property. When the property is owned [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] It is important which of the co-owners again manages the item, who holds the item, who could provide it for the use of a third party. If Mr. Svilensky and I are co-owners of a car [[laughs]] And I'm the only one who makes the decisions about the car, yes, and I give it to my colleague Hicks, who committed a violation, follows punishment, but then the car is deregistered. Then there's the co-ownership relationship. And then the co-owner, Mr. Svilensky, will say, "Co-owner, Danny, look how badly you run this thing!" [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] So the relationship stays between us as co-owners. If the co-owner is my wife or the wife of someone, she will say: "Well, did you see when you rule like this, now what have you done?............................................... [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] This is the situation, but this is the natural consequence of the right of commitment to exercise the powers, the complex of ownership rights and powers. They're her responsibility, colleagues! Our professor at Sofia University of Property Law used to say: "Colegi, property is not only a right, it is a great responsibility! " - Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Kirilov, I'm making a line for you. Okay, you gave the hypothesis that you and I should be co-owners, only we didn't tell the story when one of the co-owners was drinking, that is, you told if one of them gave another person a third person who was drinking alcohol. I ask: in one family, a man and a woman are equal owners, but one of them drinks more and secretly drinks the car. He's got Mr. Ranowski, and what's going on? A decent man who doesn't drink, doesn't drink alcohol, leaves a year without a car. If you could clarify this case, because it is more common.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u95	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here's a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u96	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Kirilov! I'm from the Third Election Region of Varna. I'd like to introduce you to a case. Currently is the tourist season in Varna. Many companies use rent-a-car to carry out their activities. Once upon a time, I had a rent-a-car company. Customers come in, I give them the car, they take it, they use it for a day or two or three or whatever it is under contract, on one of these days he takes alcohol. As a firm, what's my fault? Why should I bear the consequences of third parties? I believe that penal responsibility must be suffered by the guilty person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Andreev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here's a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We examine the Law and use the word car, but this also concerns bus drivers. The bus driver is obliged before he gets on the bus to go to pre-alcoholic control. He's clean, he's stopped by law enforcement, and he finds out that he's been drinking and we're going into the hypothesis of the Law. In this case, the owner has quite well-intentioned the alcohol control. He dealt with the law. He's not guilty, he's done what the law says to him. We do have a breach. Then should the bus or the van and the owner not be able to carry out their business? I don't think we should. I will therefore vote against.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u99	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable Members replicating! I won't be able to answer the lines by name, so I will answer the first, second and third questions. The first question is relatively simple. Co-owners may be two, but there may be five. The question is who's in charge, who's in charge of using a message. It produces a negative effect for all other co-owners. From its management or non-management of a vehicle, all co-owners suffer harm. That's what I tried to say in my speech. It's a question between co-owners. They have to decide. Therefore, in complex co-ownerships we have a complex holding of the General Assembly. When it comes to motor vehicles, we don't have such complex property. The most complicated thing is usually the marital financial community. That's why I took the liberty of pararoding the case to a certain extent. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u101	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u102	The second issue is of greater legal complexity, as it concerns commercial activity, for a commercial undertaking, the renting of motor vehicles for use by third parties. In this case, if we accept and reaffirm the penalty, the owner, that is, the landlord, will be responsible. He'll have to secure that responsibility. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u103	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u104	He may not be guilty, but he has a right to demand. What could it require? It may require guarantees from the person to whom the car is providing deposits, benefits, that if the car is subject to a penalty under this infringement, it will remain motionless and will not be able to be used. If this is a commonly practiced business, I am sure that this could be an event that is subject to insurance, but it is a matter of other agreements. For public transport, I admit I don't have an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u105	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I wasn't going to take any attitude today, but... [[Strong noise in the hall, MPs from GERB are arguing with each other.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u107	Excuse me, Mr. Atalay, but please order in the court! Mr. Kirilov, Mr. Velchev, Mr. Yordanov, please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u108	The misunderstanding in the laws gives rise to this, Mr. Chairman. Argument at GERB... You guys are finally starting to hear. Each law is written and created to settle public relations. Where the purpose of a law is to impose sanctions by which to collect certain funds, by which 100 thousand. lv. Make ten pedestrian paths, create these misunderstandings. Colleagues, we asked you at first reading... This bill is for road traffic. The Road Traffic Act must regulate how and how the car will move, how and how I, as the owner of this vehicle, will use it and will reach my final goal, notice, unhindered and safe. And you're thinking back, your thinking is how and how to reach into the pocket of everyone who has climbed on a highway, on the road, even when moving on a pedestrian. Colleagues, this misunderstanding that arises in the second paragraph... This bill, proposed by you in this way, is best to withdraw it right now. He's coming back! I didn't take any part in § 1, when I told you that you hid the policemen in the bushes and thus endangered them instead of creating normal working conditions. This Bill with its idea of robbing every driver who for one reason or another has broken the rules is not for this room and should not be discussed. My request is: if you could not provide a precise and clear answer for the buses, if with this bill you cannot provide a precise and clear answer what the two owners will do when Mr. Kirilov's wife does not allow him to drive the car constantly and can always put something in his coffee to come out with alcohol... These are funny things, colleagues you're doing right now. That is why my request is, Mr. President of the Commission and the importers, be so kind, come out and say that you are withdrawing the bill so that it can be subject to a new discussion and to the adoption of such a law, which is necessary for Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u109	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u110	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Kirilov, I'm listening to you, but because I don't know much about right, if I understood, I would have handled it myself, but didn't I understand the culprit have to bear responsibility or my belongings? Whoever commits a crime in this country is responsible! What if someone in my house throws upstairs, is it my responsibility to bring him in? [[Laughter]] That's why I'm asking myself the question and I'm going to tell you a good story. He's on trial for murder with a knife. The judge asks him, "Why did you kill the man?" He says, "It's not true. I got a knife from the neighbor. I'm peeling an apple. The guy came to get his knife, fell on it, and so he fell on it eight times. Who's to blame for the neighbor, the one who whites his apple or the knife? Who committed a crime! There's no reason to debate for so long! Anyone with 18 years of age is responsible for everything he's done. If this is all your fault, I'm sorry... I'll give my car to my grandson tomorrow if he has a license. He can make trouble, but he'll answer! Why do I have to answer for things?! I don't get it! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u111	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? He has the floor for the first line Mr. Krasimir Jankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Rashidov, it is obvious that in plenary there should also be examples. My reply to you is in relation to what is said, purely polite, let me be a lawyer, and I understand you, but does the Constitution allow such a text to be found in the Bulgarian legislation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u113	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Come in for a second line, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u114	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Rashidov, I suggest that if you have doubts about the wording of § 2, you do not support it. He won't be accepted and there won't be this case that we all have to wonder how to decide. The question remains: why are we making these changes? Only to fill out a fund of road safety and that money we spent on signs a few million years ago, we tried to check how much this cost. We couldn't make an up-to-date reference, so a year later, let's say the few million we gave for signs, not for pedestrian paths and nice roads, we actually set them on fire and we don't need them. So if you are convinced, simply do not support the wording of § 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u115	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Third line from the MP Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Academician Rashidov! With concern, I take this line just to say a basic principle, which is from twenty-five centuries old, from Roman law: the owner of the item is responsible for the damage caused by it. This is the common ground from which the liability of the owner starts. And since we're talking about cases of property and responsibility, the classic example of responsibility from property is: when the owner of his pot left it on the balcony and this pot fell due to a gust of wind on the head of a random passing passerby, who is responsible? Not the pot, not the wind, colleagues, the owner of the pot that didn't secure it. He left her in the wrong place, and that's how he killed a man. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u117	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Rashidov, come in for the back. [[Noise.]] I'm asking for order in this room. [[Noise.]] Please, colleagues, order in the court.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, I think it's as nice as it is in the West that everyone who is guilty of taking the blame. Stretched texts can be quite awkward for the family. And as for the pot, I've had a living case, as a student here I lived on a window of Dimitar Polyanov. Underneath was the Ministry of Interior? [[Laughter]] And at a party, someone pushed the grease and fell down next to the cop he was guarding. I've written before that I don't want to kill him and I didn't want to, of course. [[Laughter]] But let's leave the pots and jokes, because there really is a small syndrome in Bulgaria. Instead of raising penalties, fines, people getting into their pockets, it's the only lever anywhere in the world, everywhere, and I'm going to give you a serious example. I lived for two years, accidentally, in Paris, and I wondered why they always wash the windows at 6:30 in the morning, and in Bulgaria they don't wash them for months. Girls come by with these blue hats and these bags. And when he sees that the window hasn't been washed, when he sees that the garbage hasn't been cleaned, and when he sees that a guy with plastic gloves doesn't take his puppy's pet, the poop, he writes a note. The fines were over 200, 300 euros, then they were in francs. They don't fight with anyone in the city either. He can't solve a single problem without paying the fine. And as his arithmetic turned out that three months, if he doesn't wash his window, he'll give them to the state, he says, well, why would I give them to an Argentinean every morning to wash them for me for some... So by telling this, the legislation alone needs to take good, serious measures, to reach into their pockets and to stress that they can no longer and should not, because their family will be harmed. Those are the sanctions. Otherwise, let's think, but the car, I told you about the knife on purpose. It's nobody's fault who killed him, and it doesn't matter what he's holding in his hand, okay? We're not suing the subject. We're suing the person. So it's nice as a guy who has some property and I have a car, I have a wife, I have kids, I have grandchildren, it's not right to put up with a responsibility that goes almost to the store. Then let's sue the car salesman why is he selling them to us? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u119	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. A statement? Here you are, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u120	It's nice of you to interrupt me on time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u121	I felt the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u122	(BSP for Bulgaria): Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My speech will be very brief, I take occasion from the remark of my colleague Kirilov. You all know about the causal relationship and the direct causal relationship. However, here we are talking about the average of this causal relationship, that is, here we already have another legal entity that is criminally responsible. And in the example of the pot, there's no such other subject, there's one person who put the pot there. However, I will give you another example relevant to this case that we are looking at today. If a police officer with a legal weapon shoots someone on the street, illegally shoots them, should we put the Home Secretary in jail? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u123	Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! However, I would like to bring some clarity as a new MP that we are making changes to something that actually exists. Therefore, as a member of the Transport Commission, you will allow me to read to you the text that we are actually editing, and you will say what the differences are and whether these changes at all solve the cases that we comment on here and to whom obviously specialists in legal matter cannot give logical and normal explanations. We're changing art. 171, p. 2a. I'm reading you the text that's working right now, and you're just gonna let me waste some time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u125	Yeah, you got five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u126	"Current registration of a road vehicle to an owner who drives a motor vehicle without holding a driving licence or has used alcohol with a blood concentration of more than 0,5 per 1000, and/or narcotics or their analogues, as well as if refused to be checked with a technical means to detect the use of alcohol and/or narcotic substances or their analogues, or has failed to comply with the prescription for medical examination of the concentration of alcohol in his blood, and/or for the use of narcotics, or their analogues. Here ends the old text and importers offer an addition. After the end or the end, the applicant shall have a comma, as well as the owner whose driving vehicle is operated by a person not holding a new driving licence for a period of six months to one year respectively. You understand that, in fact, with the changes being proposed, nothing is solved. The point that we are voting on, and now there are the cases since the beginning of this year, because this point has entered into force since January 21st, are still current. So let us think of a way in which we can specify this point in the Law in such a way that it does not create for the judicial system, frankly, ridiculous cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u127	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? None Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think the subject of the debate is shifting in another direction. Let us not comment now on current texts, we are talking about amendments that will enable those incompetent drivers who drive the motor vehicle provided by the owner of the vehicle... to enter into the hypothesis of those when they were entitled and provided it. From the checks carried out since the beginning of the year, there have been 11 366 suspended for verification. It is established that only 1212 of them owned the cars, and the remaining 10 thousand were really incapable. Do we want to continue this, or do we want to have efficiency in countering the victims on the road? The debate has shifted in another direction and no one is focusing on the most important and on what we need to vote on today. You are commenting on an active text, and we need to make an amendment to supplement that those who are unfit and provided by the owner of the motor vehicle, of course, will be in the hypothesis of those who are of 1212 people. At the moment, you want to tolerate the remaining 10 thousand for them not to have sanctions that must be binding for them as well. So let us concentrate, Mr President, on the amendments we are proposing, not commenting on the current text, which is a fact and is not subject to discussion. We do not change the active text, we make a change that we want to optimize the legal norm that applies to everyone, to be equal to everyone, and to actually have efficiency that will give us results in reducing the victims on the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Replices: first.. Mr. Yankov, Mr. Svilenski, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u130	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tsvetanov, you're speaking very eloquently. We are aware that we can read that it is about extending the scope and increasing the period. And if you had listened previously to the speakers, you would understand the protest against what you want to further expand the country's repression over the citizens, over the ownership of the citizens. There is not with this opportunity and repression of the state to achieve the result you are talking about. I do not accept you accusing a MP who has expressed an opinion other than yours that tolerates violations of the Law and in no case can you combat this violation of the Road Traffic Act by law. You know what measures must be taken and actions taken by the executive. For the past eight years, seven years the responsibility is yours. The fact that there are violations, deaths, speeding, is your responsibility for unfinished business. Only the law won't help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u131	Second line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you were right that the discussion moved in another direction and we do not comment on the proposed texts by you as importers, but we commented on the current texts. However, to remind you, my colleague said that, we only accepted this a few months ago from the same group of importers again. I've always said that as many times as we try to fix a piece of the Road Traffic Act, we'll get to that result. Now we're a little late in the day. In the talks with Mr. Kirilov we established a table of cases where a car owner, co-owner, rent-a-car, public passenger transport could fall into. My call is: let's really stop making fixes to a piece in the Road Traffic Act. Each and every one of us is a driver, each and every day we face problems on the road and with the Law, and each and every one of us constantly comes up with ideas on how to deal with this war on the road. However, I say, with extraordinary Saturday meetings, it is in the Council of Ministers, or in parliament, we will not resolve the matter. Let's sit down at the same table and make a new law in which these things can be cleared from all perspectives. We will now accept this, after one week there is a new Law. The colleagues have tabled a new amendment, the Ministry is waiting with a third amendment next week. It's the most viewed law. Let us, if we must, point one on Wednesday always be the Road Traffic Act and have this debate, we will fill Parliament's time. Corrections made in this way lead to this discussion. We supported you in the first vote, and now on this text we will probably abstain, because we are actually seeing a problem that, well, we feel on time. But even if we don't support it, even if you withdraw it, the current text remains. We won't solve this case either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Popov, Mr. Letifov has a wish for a third line, would you give it to him, or do you insist on having one? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, the statistics you read that out of those 11,000, I will not be so accurate, 1200 are actually the owners of the cars. The remaining 10,000 are not incompetent, it's just the rest of the category of drivers who use a car or a service car or public transport, which is a big part. Basically, the idea of what you are proposing is to extend the scope of punishment. And again, we're talking not about safe road traffic, but about filling out the traffic safety fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u135	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u136	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, fellow Members of the House who have taken the line! Just to say that I fully agree with Mr. Svilensky. I can tell you that there is a working group in this direction. I am convinced that in addition to the three ministries entrusted with this responsibility, where there is greater expertise, and the MPs from the relevant portfolio committees will be able to participate actively in the debate when there are already certain decisions on all the cases we have said. Until then, however, it does not mean that we should not undertake any optimization of legislation until the adoption of a law that is completely new and regulates absolutely all the issues that we are discussing today. I will not answer my colleague Jankov because I do not think that in one form or another I have offended anyone. Of course, when we go out on the parliamentary stand there is a clash of ideas and the dispute is resolved by the final vote. Your proposal is extremely reasonable. I believe that the executive has already made the relevant decisions on how to form this working group next week it will start working, as far as I know, quite effectively. I just want to clarify something because there have been a lot of examples today. Let there be, however, a preventive element in this legislative measure. Let me just remind you: there are many parents who provide their children with their cars for being a good parent and that the child in one form or another has extracted this privilege. What are we supposed to do? Tolerate that? I think that every parent is responsible, every employer is also responsible, because when you provide a service car or your personal car, you need to know that the person who is going to sit behind the wheel has competence. I believe that this is precisely what will enable us, with this legislative measure, everyone to do this cross-check when providing the car and everyone to know that, basically, from 6 months to a year, the car will not be able to be used. That's what we're offering. I don't know why we're doing this debate to tolerate something that we're all convinced is a violation and that it shouldn't be allowed. Because if we save a man's life with this measure, believe that it's worth doing. As for what Mr. Iankov said, we've ruled for eight years, yes, we've ruled for eight years. Let's remember by 2009 how many victims were on the road. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Colleagues, this is a statistic that can be checked at any time. They reached 600 in 2011, we are currently 700 in the last two years. We really shouldn't let it happen and go back to the levels when you were in charge, so let's take it seriously and speak responsibly from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u137	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall close the deliberations and put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2 fully supported by the Commission. Please vote on § 2 on the Commission report. They voted 164 MPs: 92 against 21, abstention 51. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u138	There is a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 189, para. The fourth sentence is first amended In the event of an infringement established and recorded with an automated technical vehicle or system for which no penalty is provided for the right to drive a motor vehicle or to withdraw control points, an electronic ticket shall be issued in the absence of a control body and an intruder for the imposition of a fine of an amount fixed for the infringement concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u139	Statements? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 3 with its respective content, in accordance with the Commission's report. They voted 163 MPs: 143, against 13, abstention 7. Paragraph 3 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u140	There is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a division with the name of the Final provision with § 4: "Concluding provision' ............................................ In the Penal Code (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 78a, para. 7 shall be added after the words "drunk', or after use of narcotics or their analogues.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u141	You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I propose to vote the Commission proposal for the establishment of a division named "Language provision" which contains § 4 with its respective content, according to the Commission's report. Vote 150 MPs: 150, no opposition and no abstentions. The sub-section with the name of the "Concluding provision" containing § 4 with its corresponding content on the Commission's report has been adopted, and thus the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-22.u143	And thank you, Mr. Letifov. Parliamentary control announcements on 16 June 2017, starting time 9:00: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer 2 questions from the MP Iskren Veselinov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer 7 questions from the MPs: Vasil Antonov; Nikolay Tsonkov, two questions; Alexander Simov; Konstantin Popov, Plamen Nunev, Vladimir Toshev, Emil Hristov and Zapreyan Yankov two questions; Rumen Georgiev; and one question from the MP Anton Kutev. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from the MP Nikolay Tsonkov. 4. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov and a question from the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov. 5. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer three questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov; and Yordan Mladenov and Nadia Klisurska. 6. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer four questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova; Yordan Mladenov and Svetla Bachvarova; and Georgi Turnovalyski. 7. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova. 8. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Nina Mitkova two questions; Donka Simeonova, Irena Anastasova and Veska Nencheva; and Stoyan Mirchev. 9. The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Georgi Svilenski and Stoyan Mirchev; and Nikolay Tsonkov and two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Stefan Burgev. 10. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer eight questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev; Anton Kutev and Stoyan Mirchev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Manol Genov; Krasimir Bogdanov; Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Sevim Ali; and Nikola Dinkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva to a question from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Boshkov; - Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova to a question by the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions from the MPs Stefan Burgev two questions; and Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Boshkov; and to one question with a written answer from the MPs Nikolay Sirakov and Iglika Sabeva; - Culture Minister Boel Banov.. to a question from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliyski; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev of one question from the MPs Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov; and two questions with written answer from the MPs Teodora Halacheva; and Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, one question from the National Representative Veska Nencheva; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of a question by the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov of a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev of a question by the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - three questions from the MPs Krastina Taskova two questions; and Veselin Mareshki to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; - a question from the National Representative Gergana Stefanova to the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov; - a question from the MP Ivelina Vassileva to the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova and the Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am adjourned. Tomorrow, Friday, June 23rd, we start at 9:00 with parliamentary control. [[PHONE RINGING]]
