ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u1	There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. We begin today's plenary session with: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW ON THE MINISTERITY OF INTERNAL WORKS. The representatives of the National Assembly are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, submitted on 27 June 2017 and adopted at the first vote on 30 June 2017. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In addition to the Law on the Law on the Ministry of Interior, No 754-01-31, submitted by the National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 27 June 2017, adopted on the first vote on 30 June 2017. Before we start with the report, I would like to put to the vote for admission in the Chamber of Krasimir Tzipov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u3	Please vote, honourable Members. Vote 169 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 14. Please invite Deputy Minister Tsipov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u4	The Act for Supplement to the Act for the Ministry of Interior (Obn..., SG No. 53) The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u5	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 169 MPs: for 169, against and abstention there is no. The name of the Law is adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u6	A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. 81 of 2016, dop. No. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) The civil servants of the Ministry of Interior on the day of the entry into force of this Law who were entitled to uniform clothing for 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014 or 2015 and for which they were not insured, shall be paid their left-hand equivalence at the limit of the year concerned, in proportion to the working months of office for a civil servant wearing a uniform in the calendar year, with a deduction of the limits used for each of the years listed. After payment of the left-hand equivalence, no uniform clothing shall be provided for the relevant year. (2) The amounts under para. 1 shall not be taxed and insurance contributions shall not be calculated and paid. (3) The order for payment of the amounts under para. 1 shall be determined by order of the Minister of Interior. (4) The funds for the payment of the amounts under para. 1 shall be approved by the Council of Ministers as additional expenditure for staff under the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u7	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the generally supported text of the importer for § 1 of the Commission in the version, as presented to you by the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov from the stands. Vote § 1 on the Commission report. Vote 174 MPs: for 172, against none, abstention 2. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u8	"Transitional and final provisions." A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that the name of the subdivision be amended as follows: 'Concluding provision'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u9	We are voting on the name of the division. Vote 174 MPs: for 172, against none, abstention 2. The name of the division is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u10	Under paragraph 2, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The order under § 83a, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior (prom., SG No. 81 of 2016, dop. No. 98 from 2016), is issued within one month of the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u11	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 171 MPs: for 170, against none, abstention 1. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u12	Under paragraph 3, there is a proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u13	Are there any speeches, honourable Members? I won't. We are voting on the Commission proposal for § 3. Vote 170 MPs: 168 against 1, abstention 1. The Commission's proposal to reject § 3 by importer has been accepted, and thus the bill has been adopted by a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u14	Mr. Chairman, if you would allow me, once we have adopted the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act, to thank the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior and all colleagues from all the parliamentary groups who participated in the Internal Commission on these legislative changes and for the full consensus we have reached with our colleagues from BSP, DPS, Volja. I believe that when a bill is on the topic of Security, it should be voted this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Let's move on to the next point: LAW FOR THE RATICING OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND ON THE MAJOR COMMITMENT OF THE UNITED ARGUED FORCES IN EUROPEAN AND STATE OF THE UNION VOICE-MANDING IN THE TRANSFORMATION FOR ADMISSION TO THE PARIZATION There is no report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Report from the Defense
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In relation to the points at issue, please allow Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence to enter the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u17	Please vote, honourable Members, on the proposal for admission to the Chamber of Deputy Minister Zapreyanov. They voted 146 MPs: for 139, they won't mind, they abstentioned 7. Invite Deputy Minister Zaprianov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u18	? Report on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief of the Transformation to supplement the Paris Protocol, No 702-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 6 July 2017, the Defence Committee examined the First Voting Draft for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief of the Transformation of Supplement to the Paris Protocol, No 702-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2017. There were 19 MPs present. The Chairman of the Defence Committee briefed the members of the Commission on the order of the President of the National Assembly, with which the draft was allocated to the Defence Committee as a committee responsible and two other committees. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence General. Atanas Zaprianov. The Agreement regulates the status of all NATO headquarters and structures in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this way the status of the relevant structure, personnel and accompanying family members is detailed and expanded compared to the so-called Paris Protocol on the status of the international military headquarters established in accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2004. It was stressed that the conclusion of the Agreement was urgent. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Slavcho Velkov and Simeon Simeonov. In their speeches, they supported the bill in the first vote. 19 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. By 19 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support the First Voting Draft for the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief on the Transformation of Supplement to the Paris Protocol, No 702-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. The Foreign Policy Committee is welcome, Mr. Tanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u20	Honourable President, honourable Members, I present to you: ? Report on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief of the Transformation to supplement the Paris Protocol, No 702-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 5 July 2017, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Atanas Zapreyanov. By Decision No 614 of 25 July 2016, the Council of Ministers approved the draft Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief of the Transformation to supplement the Paris Protocol. The purpose of this Agreement is to regulate the status of all NATO headquarters and other structures that can be established on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. The agreement was signed by the Bulgarian side on 15 March 2017 and by the two top NATO commands on 24 March and 26 April 2017 respectively. Our country is currently hosting several such NATO structures. On the territory of the country is located a NATO Force Integration Headquarters (NFIU) to implement the decisions of the NATO Summit in Wales on 4 and 5 September 2014. In the Republic of Bulgaria is established a Center for research, construction and improvement of NATO's capabilities for crisis management and disaster response. The Republic of Bulgaria provides in state and resource-based terms and Module of CIS with the ability to recover. The Agreement details and expands the status of the relevant NATO structure, its staff and its accompanying family members compared to the Paris Protocol (the Protocol on the Status of International Military Headquarters established in accordance with the North Atlantic Treaty ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria). The Agreement was drawn up and negotiated on the basis of a draft of additional agreements to the Paris Protocol provided by the High Command of the United Nations in Europe, distributed to all Member States in the territory of which an alliance structure is to be or has been established. The conclusion of the Agreement is an urgent necessity for the Republic of Bulgaria, as foreign servicemen occupying positions in NATO structures are already residing on the territory of the country. Their residence, as well as their families, raises many questions that are outside the competence of the Ministry of Defence, such as the need to issue/recognize identification and other documents, registration of motor vehicles, tax relief. These issues, as well as aspects of the status of the military structure itself, are not detailedly resolved in the Paris Protocol in force and in the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the status of their armed forces signed in London on 19 June 1951 and are therefore subject to regulation in the draft Additional Agreement. If the country does not take measures to ensure the necessary status of those persons and their families, it will have negative consequences for its image as a reliable partner and will impact on the assessment of the implementation of the political commitment to ensure adequate housing of both the integrated logistics formation and other international structures of the Alliance. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which with 12 votes for.............................................................................................. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt at first reading the draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander in Chief for the Transformation of Supplement to the Paris Protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. Internal Security and Public Order Committee report. Here you go, Mr. Gamishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u22	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Headquarters of the Supreme Union Chief of Transformation of the Paris Protocol, No 702-02-5, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 12 July 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined the draft Law No 702-02-5 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 26 June 2017. The motives of the bill were presented by Atanas Zapreyanov "Deputy Minister of Defence." In his exhibition he stressed that the Agreement has special importance in terms of our national security and regulation the status of all NATO headquarters and other NATO structures that can be established on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. These matters, subject to the present Agreement, are not detailedly resolved in the Paris Protocol in force and the Agreement between the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty signed in London on 19 June 1951 and therefore an Additional Agreement is to be signed. Therefore, by Decision No 614 of 25 July 2016, the Council of Ministers approved the draft Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief of the Transformation to supplement the Paris Protocol. The agreement was signed by the Bulgarian side on 15 March 2017 and by the two top NATO commands on 24 March and 26 April 2017 respectively. Foreign servicemen occupying positions in NATO structures are already residing in our country's territory. The Agreement details and expands the status of the relevant NATO structure, its personnel and its accompanying family members. Currently on the territory of our country is located a command element for the integration of NATO forces according to the decisions adopted at the NATO Summit in Wales on 4 and 5 September 2014, as well as a Centre for the Study, Building and Improvement of NATO's Crisis Management and Disaster Response Capabilities. We provide in a state and resource-based way and module of the. (DSM) F, NATO Signal batalion -2NSB. The agreement is subject to ratification by a law of the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as the project provided for in terms of the rights and privileges of the NATO Headquarters and its members requires legislative measures for their implementation. On the basis of the discussion held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 18 votes for the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt the draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander of Transformation to supplement the Paris Protocol on 26 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gamishev. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote the bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Headquarters of the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief on the Transformation to supplement the Paris Protocol. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 138, none, abstention 5. The bill was passed in the first vote. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u24	Honourable President, honourable Members, I propose on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 to proceed to the second reading vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I put to the vote the proposal to consider the Bill at second reading. Please vote. They voted 132 MPs: 132, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion has been adopted unanimously. Please submit the Second Voting Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u26	Honourable President, honourable Members, our attention is THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme High Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Headquarters of the Supreme Union Commander-in-Chief on the Transformation of the Supplement to the Paris Protocol A single member. He is a member of the Committee of the Regions of the European Union and of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Final provision It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The Minister of Interior, the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and the Minister for Defence, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Finance in the framework of their competence to adopt or propose to the competent authorities the adoption of the relevant legislative acts to ensure the implementation of the provisions of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Supreme Chief Command of the United Armed Forces in Europe and the Supreme Union Commander for the Transformation of Supplement to the Paris Protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u27	Thank you. Are there any who wish to speak, honourable Members? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law, a single article with its content, as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune, the name Please vote. They voted 136 MPs: 133, against 1, abstention 2. The law has also been passed in a second vote. Moving on to point five. THE LAW FOR THE RATE OF THE TECHNICAL AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE MINISTER OF THE DESTINATION OF THE KINGDOM OF BELGIUM, THE DESARTAMENT OF THE NATIONAL DEFENCE OF CANADA, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTROY OF THE KINGDOM OF GERMANY, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTROY OF THE FRENCH REPUBLIC, THE FEDERAL MINISTERATION OF THE DESTROY OF THE PEDERAL REPUBLIC OF GERMANY, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTROY OF THE HUNGARY, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE ITALIAN REPUBLIC, THE MINISTERATION OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE REPUBLIC OFLa, THE MINISTERY OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM, THE MINISTERATION OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM, THE MINISTER OF THE DESTRUCTION OF THE KINGDOM OF THE NOREGATION, THE MINISTITY OF THE DEST OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. A report from the Defence Committee. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u28	Honourable President, honourable Members, I will introduce you and offer you: ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Technical Agreement on the Centre for the Coordination of Movements................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At a regular meeting held on 6 July 2017, the Defence Committee examined, for first vote, the Draft for ratification of the Technical Agreement on the Centre for the Coordination of Movements between the above-mentioned Parties. There were 19 MPs present. The Chairman of the Defence Committee briefed the members of the Commission on the order of the President of the National Assembly, with which the draft was allocated to the Defence Committee as the leading Commission and two other committees. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence General. Atanas Zaprianov. The Agreement establishes a Centre for the Coordination of Movements and lays down the main administrative and financial provisions for its operation and maintenance. The Centre is designed to coordinate among participating countries and to improve the use of air and ground transport capabilities and to refuel in the air. The Bulgarian Party has joined the Agreement with Nota for participation signed on 14 November 2016. It was stated that under the Agreement the Bulgarian Party assumed financial obligations for a long period, the value of which by years cannot be calculated in advance and fixed as an assumed amount. For this reason, the Agreement is subject to ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Experience from exercises and missions, as well as from participation in other similar initiatives, shows that using the Centre's services could significantly reduce mobility costs. In the discussion of the Bill took part the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Kolyo Milev. In their speeches, they supported the bill in the first vote. It was highlighted that with accession we can show empathy and commitment to building collective abilities. 19 MPs participated in the subsequent vote. By 19 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft for the ratification of the Technical Agreement on the Centre for the Coordination of Movements between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Department of Defense of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, No 702-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Report of the Foreign Policy Committee.. People's representative Atanas Tashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u30	Honourable President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Foreign Policy on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the Centre for the Coordination of Movement of Europe, No 702-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 12 July 2017, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Atanas Zapreyanov "Deputy Minister of Defence" as follows: On 14 November 2016, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning the Centre for the Coordination of Movement of Europe. The scope of the Technical Agreement is international cooperation within the Centre for the Coordination of Movements "Europe" in the field of all modes of transport. The technical agreement shall specify the general procedures and measures necessary for the effective performance of the tasks, responsibilities of the participants, including the procedures for reimbursement of costs when providing transport and movement services. Under the Agreement, the Republic of Bulgaria undertakes a financial obligation for a long-term period whose value by year cannot be calculated in advance and fixed as an assumed amount. This circumstance requires ratification of the Agreement on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, by 15 votes for the National Assembly, without the opposition and 3 votes, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to adopt at first reading, the draft Law on ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the Centre for Coordination of the Movement of Europe.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Tashkov. There is no report from the Budget and Finance Committee. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I am closing the debate and putting the bill to the first vote. Please vote. The vote is 156 MPs: 151, none, abstention 5. The bill was passed in the first vote. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u33	We also vote on the proposal for admission to consideration in a second vote. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 141, none, 3 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please submit the bill for voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u34	Mr. Chairman! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium and the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the Centre for the Coordination of Movement of Europe. A single member. The Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Department of National Defence of Canada, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of Hungary, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Latvia, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain, the Government of Royal Sweden, the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey, the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the Centre for Coordination of Movement of Europe, to which the Bulgarian State joined with a note of participation, signed on 14 November 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the name of the Law, the only article and its content as presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Konstantin Popov. Please vote. The vote is 156 MPs: 150 against 3, abstention 3. The bill has also been passed in a second vote. Declaration please, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The speaker of the group is Mustafa Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we celebrate the anniversary of the entry into force of the newest Constitution of Bulgaria. Despite its imperfections, the Constitution of 13 July 1991 secured the path of transition and created the foundations of our country's democratic structure. The Constitution established Bulgaria as a parliamentary republic and a single state, defined the framework in which the other laws should be created. Establish the principles for building the political system, the principle of separation of authorities, pointed out and defined the powers of the state authorities, as well as the principles of democratic elections. As a foundation of modern statehood, the aim of the Constitution is to create sustainable, democratic governance of society and humane relations, which place the personality of the highest step in the public value system. Members of the Seventh Grand National Assembly, following this drive, declared their allegiance to the universal values of freedom, peace, humanism, equality, justice and tolerance. They raised the rights of the person, its dignity and security and left to future generations to build, strengthen and preserve the democratic foundations of the Bulgarian state. With the laws adopted in the future, in accordance with the Constitution, to create strong guarantees of this with a clear awareness that guaranteeing citizens' rights and freedoms is a criterion for the degree of development of democracy in society. At the beginning of democracy, the country had to successfully resolve fundamental human rights issues, put an end to the suppression of fundamental human rights and freedoms, and at the same time create a basis for ensuring compliance with these rights. Civil society had to be built and strengthened in compliance with the requirements of international standards on human rights and fundamental freedoms. In the years of the transition in the Republic of Bulgaria, a successful model was established between ethnic relations based on the principles of civil society and democracy. In essence, this model requires that when solving minority issues, search and find balance and harmony between the principle of integration of minorities into civil society and the principle of protection of their ethnic, religious and linguistic identity. The Constitution laid down the understanding of a nation as a civil nation where the national community consists of all citizens of the state, taking into account the existence of ethnic, religious and linguistic diversity, respectively, of carriers of such differences. The Bulgarian Constitution includes the understanding that the protection of minorities is carried out by ensuring full assurance of the individual rights and freedoms of persons belonging to them. According to the Constitution, all people are born free and equal in dignity and rights. No restrictions on rights, no privileges based on race, nationality, ethnicity, conviction, political affiliation and so on are allowed. All citizens are equal before the Law. The Constitution proclaims equality as a common value along with freedom, peace and humanism. This principle is one of the foundations of civil society and the democratic state. In accordance with art. 57, para. 1 of the Constitution the fundamental rights of citizens are inalienable. This norm, as well as all constitutional norms, shall have immediate effect under art. 5, para. 2. The Constitution provides fundamental rights and freedoms to the individual, but they are only a prerequisite. They can't and they're not a real measure of the democratism of society. They are pointless if the necessary political, economic and legal mechanisms for their implementation are not created. There's nothing left but affidavits. Although our new Constitution has created, in principle, a new state of substance and form, there is no guarantee that it will not be a hostage of persons and formations left chained in the old chains of its own severe prejudices, especially when they are dressed in power. The main role and responsibility of the National Assembly as a legislative body for the adoption of laws in accordance with constitutional rules and international treaties, which are part of the domestic law of the country and enjoy priority over national laws, must be clearly highlighted and constantly recalled. The Members of the National Assembly must be clearly aware of their responsibility that proper respect for the rights and freedoms of citizens is guaranteed by the establishment of the relevant legal mechanisms and this is a fundamental obligation and responsibility of the Members of Parliament and the National Assembly. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms adheres irrevocably to the objectives set out in the party's programming documents and works consistently to reach understanding, unity and equality between Bulgarian citizens by forming a consistent and firm national policy, respecting the rights and freedoms of all communities in the country, coordinating national legislation with international principles and standards for ensuring the rights and freedoms of minorities in the Republic of Bulgaria, establishing guarantees for non-ethnic and religious hatred and discrimination, for equality in the rights, freedoms and social security of all communities, as well as economic prosperity and sustainable development of all districts and municipalities in the country. With these principles, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a guarantor of democracy, stability, peace and prosperity, foundation and guarantor of the Bulgarian ethnic model. This must be a common case with the efforts of all together. In recent years, we have not just recorded how the spirit and philosophy of the basic law and its specific norms are being violated, but we have witnessed extremely alarming processes and a lasting trend of sharp and ever-retarding and retreating from the achievements of democracy in our country. And while we had until recently been able to talk about the need for laws to further develop the democratic principles and to create stable guarantees for their manifestation, it is now even a little bit to say that the majority of the legislative body not only does not create guarantees for the implementation of the rights laid down in the Constitution, something more "creates laws that restrict rights." Bright evidence of this is also the latest OSCE report. Today, we must clearly and categorically state that democracy in our country is at stake, that peace in our homeland is at stake. It is high time that measures were taken to do so. All authorities shall begin to exercise their legal powers without interference in foreign jurisdiction under strict compliance with the laws of the country. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, democracy is not a given, rights and freedoms are not a given. We all have to fight and stand firm. There are many problems ahead of us, there are many questions, and difficult questions, but in the name of democracy and peace, we must fight to continue living together to find inspiration for building a better common future. Let us look for a support for this inspiration in the Constitution and the Bulgarian ethnic model received international recognition. Let us meet the challenges of current political times with unifying patriotism, together to appreciate the strength and wealth of differences and to build that Bulgaria, which will be a desirable home for our children generations ahead. And as our Honorary Chairman Dr. Ahmed Dogan said in his political message of March 2017: "Knowing that the weather is within us, let us show the world that we are in time too!" [[Sighs: Eee from GERB and OP.]] Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I call on all democratic parties to be responsible and to the necessary heights in the name of peace and prosperity, in the name of the Constitution, in the name of the Republic of Bulgaria! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Let's go to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACADEMIC COMPOSITION IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. One draft was introduced by the People's Representative Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017, and the second draft by the People's Representative Stanislav Stanilov and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017, in the Committee on Education and Science. Who's gonna fill us in on the report? Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask for permission in the hall of Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, and Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov, Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u39	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 138 MPs: 131 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. For the report, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Education and Science on - A bill to supplement the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-20, submitted by Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-27, submitted by Stanislav Todorov Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017. At its regular meeting on 5 July 2017, the Committee on Education and Science examined: - A bill to supplement the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-20, submitted by Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-27, submitted by Stanislav Todorov Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, prof. Mr. Kostadin Kostadinov, Advisor to the Minister of Education and Science, Prof. Kostadin Kostadinov Lyuben Totev, Chairman of the Council of Rectors of Higher Schools in the Republic of Bulgaria, Prof. Totev Mr. Ivan Iliev, Rector of the University of Lesotechnics, Member of correspondent Konstantin Hadjivanov, Vice-President of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, representatives of trade union and civil society organizations. On both bills, 10 written opinions were received. The draft, submitted by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs, is supported by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Federation of University Syndicates. The Minister of Education and Science, the Minister of Finance and the Rector of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski is not in favour of this bill, given the arguments relating to the reform in the area of higher education funding. The bill, submitted by Stanislav Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, expresses support and recommendations for improving the proposed texts by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski ", Ministry of Education and Science, Federation of University Syndicates and Union of Scientists in Bulgaria." The Council of Rectors in the Republic of Bulgaria offers a working group and a longer period to discuss the proposed changes. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law No 754-01-20 was presented by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, who pointed out that the Bill introduced minimum thresholds for the salaries of scientists and lecturers tied to the minimum wage for the country and reflected the quality of their scientific activity. The proposal corresponds to the leading European experience and will ensure the necessary motivation of the academic staff and the attraction of young scientists. For the implementation of the proposed wage model, no more than 70 million will be needed. lv. from the state budget. On behalf of the importers, the Draft Law No 754-01-27 was presented by the MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Bill establishes a national general framework for participation in the procedures for acquiring scientific degrees and taking up academic positions and minimum national requirements are introduced for each professional direction. It is intended for members of a scientific jury to choose only habilitated persons who meet the relevant minimum national requirements. The Bill develops more detailed procedure for exercising control by the Minister of Education and Science on the activities of higher schools in the conduct of procedures for acquiring scientific degrees and for occupying academic positions. Rules shall be laid down to establish cases of plagiarism in scientific works. The bill solves problems such as the protection of the rights of the chief assistants who have failed for objective reasons to acquire a doctorate and regulates procedures for issuing duplicates of lost diplomas issued under the repealed Law on degrees and titles. The discussion included MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Rumen Gechev, Snezhana Dukova, Irena Anastasova, Errol Mehmed, Stanislav Stanilov, Anelia Klisarova and Milena Damyanova. During the discussion of the Bill submitted by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs, information was presented that in many of the scientifically leading European countries there is regulation of minimum salaries of university teachers and scientists without prejudice to academic autonomy. The significant difference in pay between Bulgarian habilitated persons and their Western European colleagues was pointed out as the main reason for Bulgaria to have at least 1,000 scientists in Europe. The Members of the National Assembly asked for a stronger position than the Rectors on the proposals made. The opinion was also expressed that the draft law has many problems - financial, technical, conceptual - which would lead to a change in the model of funding of higher schools. A key condition for changing the remuneration of teachers and scientists is for society to agree on the need to support this priority in the country's development. Under the bill submitted by Stanislav Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, the assessment was expressed that any attempt to introduce European practices should be supported. Recommendations were made on the possibility of using the Internet platforms to verify plagiarism. It is necessary to draw up working indicators in the application of the Law. The question was asked why it is not discussed the possibility that the scientific jury should be drawn up on a random basis. Milena Damyanova reminded that the texts to art. 21 are considered and adopted by the Commission at second reading in the 43rd National Assembly. In principle, the texts which have been discussed in depth must have continuity and possible technical corrections are eligible. The representatives of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the University of Lesotechnics, the management of the CNSB, the National Federation of Technology Industry, Science, Informatics The information was presented that teachers who earn European projects receive lower pay than their colleagues in Europe, because project pay is linked to the basic salaries that scientists receive in their country. From the national trade union High education and science "CST" expressed disagreement with the Law submitted by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs because guaranteeing the minimum wage is contrary to the new subsidy allocation mechanisms in state higher schools according to the quality of work and focused attention on underfunded professional directions such as technical, pedagogical and agrarian sciences. The measures against plagiarism provided for in the Bill submitted by Stanislav Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs were supported. A call was made for more flexible science-metric criteria that do not discriminate against publication of Cyrillic. The Council of Rectors in the Republic of Bulgaria pointed out the existing difficulties in forming scientific judges and expressed their desire to participate in a working group to refine the proposals for second reading. The leadership of the Committee on Education and Science reminded that working groups are a permanent practice in the work of the Commission in the last few mandates of the National Assembly. After the end of the discussion and a vote was held the Committee on Education and Science: with 7 votes in favour and 14 votes in abstentions, the National Assembly proposes not to adopt a bill supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-20, submitted by Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017; With 13 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 8 votes abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law on amendment and supplement of the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-27, submitted by Stanislav Todorov Stanilov and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Maleshkova. With the report of the Budget and Finance Committee, who will introduce us? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u42	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-20, submitted by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017. At a meeting held on 27 June 2017, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Prof. Prof. Petar Nikolov, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, Kiril Ananiev, Deputy Minister of Finance, Prof. Dr. Eng. Lyuben Totev, Chairman of the Council of Rectors, Assoc. Dr. Eng. Lilyana Valcheva The bill was presented by Mrs. Svetla Bachvarova. She stated that the main motive for submitting the Bill was a change in the pay of the employed in science. The assessment of the importers is that systematic in the last 10 years there has been underfinancing in the state universities and in the scientific communities of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy. The salaries fall dramatically behind the minimum wage. It is proposed that the change will take place from 2018 with the adoption of the Budget Act, ensuring minimum wages for those employed in science. Deputy Minister Nikolov said that the Ministry of Education and Science fully shares the assessment that the salaries of those working in the field of education in Bulgaria are low and insufficient and precisely because of this fact in the two key strategies that have been adopted the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education and the Strategy for the Development of Science, the increase of the incomes of the lecturers and, respectively, of the scientists, is also a key priority. Mr. Nikolov said that the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science on the Bill is negative because it contradicts the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education and Science, precedes some of the processes that should go ahead and will practically lead education to a crisis rather than solve problems. The main reasons for not supporting this bill are as follows: - The problems in the sector should be solved in a complex manner, not by an administrative act which is not supported through the state budget and through the budgets of the individual universities. Adopting it would hinder the healing programs and strategies that universities are trying to follow and would confuse the way higher education and reforms are moving in it. - Raising income should not happen automatically, but should be done taking into account the different achievements of one teacher or another. These are subject to both strategies to enable workers who achieve concrete results, making efforts, educating more people to have good income. Deputy Minister Kiril Ananiev stated the position for non-support of the Ministry of Finance with the following reasons: The proposals made are contrary to the financial mechanism which the Higher Education Act provides for the financing of higher education institutions. It is based on the assessment given to higher education institutions, based on the search for graduates from the relevant higher education institutions, from the economy, from businesses, from business. Thus, conditions are created to be financed with increasing amounts the specialities and professional directions sought by the economy, while others with low grades have calming funding, leading to internal restructuring of the higher education system. The proposal for starting wages in science is not linked to the new challenges facing the development of scientific potential in the country and the new Development Strategy. Higher salaries must be proven and deserved through a better scientific product, which is necessary both for the Bulgarian economy, so that it can compete with the scientific product created outside the country, participating in European and global competition in the field of research. Mr. Lyuben Totev expressed his opinion that the Law on the Development of the Academic Board and the Law on Higher Education should not be considered separately, but should be postponed over time and assigned to a working group to draw you up in parallel. Ms. Lilyana Valcheva stressed that the autonomy of higher schools is an extremely important achievement and it must be maintained. She said for the third consecutive year the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Finance, trade unions and rectors are working together towards increasing the odds in determining wages. The inflow of young teachers to receive adequate pay is also of utmost importance for the development of the system. After the discussion, a vote was held which ended with the following results:........................... 6 MPs,.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly not to adopt a bill supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-20, submitted on 8 June 2017 by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u43	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. We're moving on to an importer's opinion. Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The experience of developed countries and of Bulgaria shows that academic development is essential for achieving economic growth and for realizing the tasks of society, knowledge in the 21st century or the economy of knowledge. Bulgarian universities and scientific institutions face a huge challenge to be equal in a sharp and controversial competition in the coming years. We are obliged to develop our scientific centers and cultural centers. The complexity of this challenge requires the state to refer to state universities and to scientific centres with particular attention to develop them as knowledge centres, to preserve all specialities related to the development of the national economy, national security, national identity and to create mechanisms for impact promoting research and quality education, which is laid down in both strategies. Few facts from an independent expert assessment of the Bulgarian system for research and innovation. This independent assessment was made by panel experts from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of Poland, Spain, the Federal Ministry of Germany, Austria, the Netherlands, Ireland, Germany. What are their main conclusions and messages? The law on the development of academic staff must overcome the challenges of brain draining and aging research in the long term. Second important moment. There is a clear question regarding the low salaries of PhD students and young researchers and this leads to a reduction of the country's ability to preserve its alumni. A table is presented, where our PhD students have salaries of 400s and 500 euros. I don't know how they got to that chart. A new conclusion to make an immediate change that is needed to introduce a radical approach and to double the salaries of PhD students and young researchers. Despite what was said in the report: the autonomy of universities and BAS, or their autonomy, these measures depend entirely on the government to provide additional funding directly to the institutions. The scientists are divided into four groups of R1, R2, R3, R4, and these groups correspond respectively to the............................................................................................................... Based on this independent expert assessment, as well as on the analysis made on the state of science and scientific workers in Bulgaria, the Strategy which we voted on not a month ago, I would like to say that the quality of higher education and research depends, above all, on the quality of scientific potential. This scientific potential must be preserved and developed, and that will not happen unless the necessary motivation of the academic staff is guaranteed. Therefore, of course, financial resources are also needed. The demographic crisis, labour mobility, including researchers and lecturers, intensive scientific technical development and competition associated with it, must impose a new approach by the state to financing the personnel resource. I stress once again, fellow Members, a new approach. They do not contradict current laws. We are witnessing how the long-standing understatement of scientific capacity and of high intellectual work in Bulgaria demotivates the staff and deprives the country of young scientists. A little bit of facts. While throughout the world the number of scientists is increasing and for Europe these values of 5.1% are currently 7.3%, in Bulgaria the trend is completely reversed.. our scientific potential is decreasing, and this is due to the long-standing underfinancing and lack of perspective for the growth of researchers. It is the result of a short-sighted policy, which leads to that scientists from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy receive monthly remuneration with 200 BGN. Less than the average wage for the country, and sometimes their salaries are equalized with low-skilled labour. In 2016 in BAS the salary is BGN 776 and the salary of a young scientist is equal to the minimum wage in the country. In the Agricultural Academy the gross salary is 730 BGN. That's why it reduces the number of young scientists and PhD students. In the report of the European Commission on the state of Bulgarian science presented by the Science Commissioner in October 2016, what do the data show? For 2015 scientists on average for Europe at 1000 employed is 10.55, for Bulgaria is 4.43 more than twice less scientists in Bulgaria. They received a degree of doctor and a population of 1000 for Bulgaria. We have three times less scientists with a PhD. Let me say: for Croatia, 1.5; for Slovakia, 1.9 per 1000; for Romania, 1.7 per 1000. At the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences up to 35 years are currently only 11.5% of the total number of scientists. These facts outline a rather pessimistic prediction before Bulgaria. Therefore, we urgently need to take measures to prevent brain drains and our young people from staying and developing in the scientific field in Bulgaria. The change we propose on the basis of this analysis and this data is for the introduction of minimum pay thresholds. This means minimum, once again to say minimum thresholds and these minimum thresholds are related to the minimum wage for the country. As an assistant, we offer two minimum salaries, three minimum salaries, four minimum salaries for an associate and five minimum salaries for a professor. These basic salaries do not violate the autonomy of both higher schools and scientific institutions. It's the minimum wage. The incomes of our scientists can be continuously increased and increased depending on the quality of work, publications, participation in projects. And in many universities this happens because these basic salaries are a tool for overcoming the emerging trend in Bulgaria for a sharp reduction of scientific potential and scientific capacity. What is the experience abroad? Let's say that in most of the Western European countries, I emphasise that there are such minimum thresholds everywhere for teachers in universities and in scientific institutions. I don't want to compare wages, I know the opportunities of our country, because I have to tell you one associate professor in Germany starts with 3890 euros, and one professor with minimum wage 4723 euros. Yes, I know that this is impossible, but we can guarantee our scientists at least their minimum salaries to be guaranteed and related to the minimum wage, because now young scientists at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, for example, receive a minimum wage, or 20 leva. More than her. One more moment in our Draft Law. In accordance with art. 11, para. 1 of the Ordinance on additional and other salaries for the educational and scientific degree.Doctor " and for the scientific degree Doctor of Sciences "The guaranteed monthly payments are: for a small doctor, as we say, 15 BGN. All of you can think about how we will motivate young people to write a dissertation, to protect this dissertation work for 15 BGN. These data are also.. 200 BGN. for a small doctor of science and 400 BGN. for a major PhD doctor "Science Doctor." I am convinced that these threshold salaries will lead to an increase in our potential by scientists as well as the quality of research and are absolutely in line with the Strategy for stimulating research in Bulgaria adopted a month ago. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u45	Thank you, dear Professor. Klisarova. For opinion Prof. Stanilov on the second bill. While we're waiting for prof. Stanilov, today our guests are the students from the Professional High School of Management, Administration and Services. Please welcome them. Welcome. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u46	Dear colleagues, the draft law tabled by us with colleague Damyanova is the result of a nearly seven-year discussion, because at the beginning, when the previous Law was adopted, the so-called "Ignatov," it turned out that it has extremely great weaknesses, and that the number of habilitated individuals in Bulgaria is increasing without control. Here in the hall once by Vejdi Rashidov I was given the phrase that we produced them as if we had put on some gator that cuts up boards, which was true. I will read to you what the main priorities of the Law are: what I have also read in the Commission. The arguments, motivation is set out in the relevant document, but will be seen in the course of the discussion as to whether it is valid. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria create a national general framework for participation in the procedures for acquiring scientific degrees and taking academic positions. The framework is consistent with the trends of world science and with the specifics of different scientific fields and professional directions. Minimum national requirements shall be introduced for each professional direction. Pay attention, this is actually one of the most important, if not the top point, which stops all possibilities in the relevant VUMs and research institutions to commit violations in the essence of the Law. The groups of indicators that form the framework of minimum national requirements are set out in the Law and the specific indicators for each professional direction are published in the Rules for Implementation of the Law, developed by the Ministry of Education together with representatives of universities and scientific organizations. The flexibility and interchangeability of indicators are envisaged to reflect the existing differences between natural and humanities, as well as between university lecturers and academic researchers. Applicants will only be able to appear in procedures for academic growth if they meet the minimum national requirements for the relevant professional direction. The members of the scientific jury must also meet these minimum national requirements for the appropriate direction. Individual indicators will be published in an electronic register of the Ministry of Education and Science, which is administered by the National Information and Documentation Centre. A new register shall not be established but shall be further developed for scientific degrees and academic positions. There is no penalty for persons who do not reach some of the minimum requirements for the professional direction concerned, but only delay their entry in the electronic register until they meet those indicators. The possible delay in the entry shall not affect the completed accreditation procedures of higher schools and scientific organisations. Higher schools and scientific organisations may also set higher requirements than the minimum national ones. The procedures and international visibility shall be transparent, with the materials for the procedures published in Bulgarian in open access and the most important of them in one of the languages traditionally used by the relevant scientific field. The possibilities for conflict of interest between candidates in the procedures and members of the scientific jury holding them shall be limited. A joint training of PhD students between Bulgarian and foreign universities is facilitated. The conditions for the competitions for young scientists and lecturers are alleviated. The Minister of Education and Science shall be given the opportunity to exercise control over the procedures during and after their completion. It is not limited to encouraging the autonomous capabilities of higher schools and scientific organisations to exercise control at each stage of the procedures. The Minister's intervention is foreseen only after the loss of control capabilities at the level of universities and scientific organizations. In particularly drastic cases, the Minister of Education and Science appoints the Appeals Committee for each individual signal. The formation of the Appeals Committee is provided for in the National Strategy for Research 2017 - 2030 adopted by the National Assembly. The appeal committee is not an analogue of EVA. It does not award and does not take away scientific degrees and titles, but merely proposes to the Minister to return the contested procedure for a new examination in the higher school or scientific organisation. All decisions of the Minister shall be subject to judicial review. The scientific jury is now obliged to rule on plagiarism, as is normal European practice. The authorities shall also have such an obligation at all subsequent stages of the procedure. They are also subject to judicial review. The rights of assistants who have failed to defend thesis in time due to maternity leave, childbirth, adoption, raising a young child, death or serious parental illness shall be protected. The National Centre shall be entitled to issue certificates in the case of lost, destroyed, damaged and rendered unfit diplomas for scientific degrees and certificates of scientific rank issued in accordance with the repealed Law on degrees and scientific titles. Finally, we believe that the envisaged changes will achieve the main objective of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u47	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. I'm opening the debate. I give the floor for speeches. Here you go, guys. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u48	Madam President, honourable Members! Today we are looking at two bills with claims for support for the real development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. At the meetings of the Committee on Education and Science there were also opinions that they did not contradict each other despite the party contradictions of importers. The BSP colleagues propose an amendment and an addition in only two points, but they are essential in themselves. Their legislation is expressed in financial resources. The introduction of minimum wage thresholds for all who want to develop in the scientific field. Sounds good, it's important, at the same time it's a real policy. However, this should not only be a party initiative, but a conscious state responsibility with our supplement that money should not only be available for salaries and research, but for scientific achievements, scientific equipment, as well as for all the activities set out in the Research Strategy, phased by 2030. The other bill, honourable Members, is more interesting and important enough. It's about the Professor's Bill. Stanilov, Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. We see it as an attempt to bring order, a common regulation. You will allow me to make an incision, too, for the introductions of the Bill offer 42 new paragraphs, which amend and supplement 30 Articles, one paragraph, 44 paragraphs, 12 points, 20 points respectively, while creating new three Articles, 13 paragraphs, 61 paragraphs, 44 points, and others, including Transitional and Final Provisions. The main element here is the identification of five significant problems relating to the development of academic staff, among which: lack of common standards of scientific excellence, which leads to a significant increase in the number of degrees and titles obtained after 2010, without being properly accompanied by an increase in scientific output as quantity and quality in institutional and national scale; lack of stricter and specific requirements concerning the field of professional competence and objectivity of the members of the scientific jury, which lacks opportunities for manifestations of subjectivism with already available negative practical manifestations; lack of specific mechanisms for effective control over the different stages of the introduction of the procedures for the award of scientific degrees and the taking of academic positions, including the highest level of executive in the Ministry of Education and Science; lack of a clearly fixed mechanism allowing and encouraging the detection and countering of plagiarism in the current regulatory framework, the Copyright Act, the Criminal Code, and other applicable documents, as well as key elements for the selection of the European Codes. Here, fellow Members, I am opening a clamp of such a sumptuous Ethical Code of Teaching does not exist. There is an ethical code of the Union of Scientists, as well as an ethical code of different universities. The same documents are also mentioned in the updated National Strategy, which we adopted just a month ago. A major innovative moment in the proposed Bill is the introduction of minimum national requirements in the form of naucometric indicators determined by numerical values and number of points. The indicators in question are listed relatively in detail by which scientific results will be reflected and their response to scientific literature or relevant achievements in artistic and sports activities. The proposals included in the Draft are generally really applicable and logically sustained, and their practical implementation would lead to a significant elimination of the negative manifestations of subjectivism and undisclosed personal attitude in the career growth of the academic staff in the Bulgarian universities and scientific institutes. At the same time, it should be noted that the actual actual action of the Law will be made possible through the Rules of its application, which is adopted by the Council of Ministers. In no way can it be predicted the most important: whether the indicators will be determined in an appropriate way, in accordance with the specifics of each scientific area, whether it will come to a useful discussion and public discussion and the proposed amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, whether the Council of Ministers will comply with the opinions expressed and recommendations made by directly interested parties. Among the interesting aspects of the Bill, and they can also be seen as positive, the changes relating to the occupation of the Chief Assistant may also be indicated. Agree that it is somewhat ridiculous to require a person who has defended a thesis to take another exam, provided that in the classic case he has already appeared on one, applying for a regular doctorate. The subjectivism in conducting such an examination, including the release of information, is quite another topic, but is actually an unpleasant reality for the incorrect candidates. Regarding the secret voting supplement in the selection of chief assistants and professors from the faculty, respectively the scientific advice: the mandatory opinion, respectively the decision of the scientific jury for lack of plagiarism, is a new para. 4 to art. 26. Let's hear it for you. The mandatory publication with open access, at least for a period of 5 years of all reviews and opinions, summaries, researches, authoreferates, is in Bulgarian and in a foreign language in the relevant scientific field. The fact that university textbooks are not recognized and such teaching aids for monographary work. It is these aids that in some cases become the object of unholy trading, and students are forced to buy them, often with a mandatory autograph, so that they can pass the exam. As far as I'm concerned, there are people who have wasted themselves thanks to textbooks and teaching aids they have published, which are basically a simple compilation. Another clarification is needed in relation to referees and indexed editions. According to § 34, t. 9 of the proposed Bill these are publications in which the articles are published after an anonymous review and which are part of the international research space. Publications in the majority of these publications, at least in the field of history and relatives - ethnology, anthropology, museum knowledge and so on, honourable colleagues, may have been paid. I hear that some universities are making calls to finance such publications, but the number of the funded articles is hardly large, and the selection must also be highly subjective. It's part of what's called a nice home picture. After all that has been said so far, my natural question arises: which, what and how many scientific journals in Bulgaria? In conclusion, it could be said that the proposed Bill in order to produce real results, i.e. the attempt for a common regulation to be successful and operational, must be followed by the rules of its application drawn up in compliance with the specifics of each scientific area and after a broad public discussion, not only with direct beneficiaries. I am referring here to the current academic staff, at the same time to the future. They are actually also users of staff, scientific production, among which I can mention the Bulgarian business, educational system, cultural industry and so on. The question remains: what should happen to the habilitated after 2010, the individual results of whose teaching and research work are not sufficient to obtain the required number of points to meet the minimum national requirements? An identical question could also be asked with regard to some of the holders of the educational degree of Doctor who defended the thesis after 2010. It is logical to ask the question: who and how many are those who currently meet the proposed minimum requirements to be elected as members of the jury? My fellow Members, here I will interrupt, and we will all be waiting for a revision of the texts between first and second readings to see if there will be an additional proposal on our part. Thank you for your attention and patience. My colleagues, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will vote abstention on both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u49	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmet. - What's the line? Professor Stanilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u50	I will not literally replicate my colleague Mehmed and his extensive statement. The statement was fair, and everything you said was true. The point is that he raised such a question here: what happens to those who have defended so far and who do not meet the minimum requirements? I'll tell you how it is in Romania. There the Minister of Science then made the big changes, when this loose law was in effect, they made about 3,000 extraordinary professors and became the laughing stock of the whole of Europe. Then came a minister who was an engineer and mathematician and who made their new Law extremely strict. Ours in front of him is a liberal law. They took away all their degrees and titles in that period and made them rehabilitate. That's all we're saying here: When you haven't reached these national minimum requirements, keep writing, work, write monographs, articles. You reach the level, you enter the system and you get the right to become members of a jury. " Other rights are not taken away, you do not fix salaries, reading lectures and all other academic things, but specifically for reviews there is no other way to evaluate science. It is assessed only by reviews. That's why there's no way to do the science indicators to evaluate the quality. Only those who have the numbers are made. We've done it the softest way, but we can't do it without that sanction or whatever it was. In this way, these people must be separated and meet these minimum requirements.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u51	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Mehmed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Professor. Stanilov, you actually agreed with what I said as an opinion. This is another proof that when a Law is important enough, it should not only be party oriented, and if we are in real benefit to all who currently represent the academic staff in Bulgaria, and if we are useful to them, for their growth, then we have done our job. I think some of the lyrics are being refined. We are still getting opinions from different university lecturers with different suggestions and ideas. These are slight shades and may find a reflection between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmet. Any other speeches? Professor Bachvarova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! At our attention are two bills, but they have one common denominator and this is academic development. In the Commission, I was present as a guest and, to my delight, a very good discussion was made on the issues of science. This discussion gave reason to draw conclusions, to make changes that are in the direction of improving pay in the field of science, and also the regulations that in recent years have led to what Prof. Stanilov said: an unjustified number of increases in habilitated persons, of doctoral degrees that do not in our opinion meet the requirements for holding such degrees. That's why this amendment to the Law is. Under the bill that we offer, related to the basic salaries of researchers, lecturers employed at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the Agricultural Academy and higher schools, I must tell you that I am personally very surprised, firstly, by the opinions that were given by the Ministry of Education and trade unions, so that you see, this issue is not important and it does not concern the development of science, but are claims of scientists who have no basis at this time. Just one example. The report did not mention a PhD student received for 3 years 450 BGN. monthly, without having the right to work further to provide additional income in the family. Chief assistant gets 560 leva. Explain to me at these levels of pay what you expect as a scientific product, what do you expect as innovation in the next stage to be imported into the economy? Our proposal relates precisely to the need to have a correction. Why? Bulgaria in 2015 wants monitoring of the state of research in science by the European Commission. He was made. The conclusion was: low wage labor in the scientific field. A month ago, we adopted a research strategy. There it is implicitly written that it is necessary to increase the wages of the employed in science from 2017 in accordance with the average wage. We offer to the minimum wage because it is some kind of orientation that can give prerequisites smoothly, with the adoption of budgets, to implement this Strategy. Why do you accept a strategy that will not be implemented? I'm going back to the debate when the strategy was being reviewed. Then you all supported, but with the main desire not to lose money from the European funds. If this was the goal, we adopted a Strategy, but the Strategy is a binding element for implementation by the executive and we are therefore proposing adjustments to the wages for those employed in science from 2018, with the adoption of the new Budget Act. Higher schools said you see, we're breaking autonomies. We do not violate autonomy in determining wages. We want to increase the support for training against the number of students that will result precisely in those basic salaries for which we offer in our Bill. The problems in science are practically two: one is pay, the other is evaluation. The assessment of those employed in science is given with the proposal in the Draft Law for a change in the Law on academic staff and the procedures under which academic development will take place. We welcome the debate on this Bill because, after 2010, as it is written in the motives of the importers, there are prerequisites for really getting inflation from changes, from activities that have led to a sharp increase in science employed with degrees of docents, professors. But what we do not support in the Bill is in three main directions. The first direction is the naucometric indicators. That's what it's supposed to be. There's got to be minimal naucometrics. However, they are set out in the Bill very schematically, and their reference to the rules, which will determine what these minimum requirements are, in our view, will not lead to a solution to this problem. And the vast mind of Laplace to come here will not be able to make rules in which these science indicators in the rules meet some criteria for scientific work and their assessment. Here the question is not asked, perhaps it will be put in the rules, if you have three co-authors of a monograph or research, or an article, and the three apply for a degree, each one will meet the criteria, even if they are co-authors. This issue was important and was addressed in the councils and committees until 2000, but it also needs to be put up now, because many of the criteria and indicators will be achieved precisely on this line of co-authority or participation in different fields of research. Second, the scientific jury. In the discussions in the Forty-third National Assembly, the scientific jury had to and proposed to be elected on a random basis. Actually, the scientific jury is the most important part of the whole procedure. But let's go on the road. The primary unit is now available. The primary unit offers a scientific jury. Well, this primary unit consists of seven people. These seven people are leading in determining the scientific jury, because then the Faculty Council, as recorded in the Bill, only needs to confirm this scientific jury. There's no choice. There is no random choice, which means that it will continue the same system. We are well known, we are friends, I suggest you be on the scientific jury. During the discussions in the Commission, it was commented that the random choice was not appropriate because there were not enough habilitated persons to participate in the scientific jury. And we come back to the question again is, how can there be a sufficient number of habilitated persons at this level of pay? There is no escape from this issue and that is why in Bulgaria the number of scientists is constantly decreasing precisely for this reason. So our proposal between first and second readings will be that the scientific jury be random. The other means repeating what it is so far. You cannot get out of the circle of the same people who are reviewers, the same people who are quite well-meaning, perhaps to their colleagues, but not to the scientific community or scientific development as a whole, to create prerequisites for better scientific service and development of the country. Plagiarism. Again, the scientific jury is leading. Everything focuses on this scientific jury. The Scientific Jury will decide what it will do? They're people who know each other well. How does a scientific jury assess whether or not there's plagiarism and where is there? 10%, 20%, 30%? It is not formulated clearly enough and categorically what plagiarism is. Plagiarism is not cheating. It is borrowing something that has already been realized as a scientific product. So the scientific jury, which determines the reviewers who voted, will at the same time evaluate plagiarism. The next degree is going to the Faculty Council, but there is still very personal, which, in our opinion, will not lead to the resolution of this issue, which has been significant in recent years, and there is no institution that is constantly and continuously following precisely scientific publications and the possibility or inability for them to have such a borrowing, in which the relevant contributions of the applicant for one degree or another to be assessed on dignity. There are quality developments, there are Bulgarian scientists who work very actively, but there are also many who borrow, who copy, who translate and present them as their research. I will not go into the details of other proposals related to the role of the Ministry of Education and Science. Our view is that if you do not correct the scientific jury in the way in which to carry out their work professionally, whatever other mechanisms then come up with or offer, they will not be working. There must be a permanent functioning body that really monitors problems in the implementation of procedures that are in research. We will not support the bill of colleague Stanilov, we will abstain precisely because of the understanding that what is being proposed does not solve the issues recorded in the motives. We need much more serious proposals in the direction of control and regulations to resolve the issues in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u55	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. For lines? Professor Stanilov, come in for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u56	Only in relation to the problem of plagiarism, which was discussed at all levels in detail. The truth is, there should be a permanent assembly committee. In the original project it was, but the Ministry and especially the Council of Rectors, who have a very strong voice in general in society, disagreed. I think that at second reading we can convince them that the Committee on Appelation to be a permanent body. On the subject of evaluation, what is plagiarism and what is not, I can say this. Science is assessed in a single way, I will repeat, in a single way. No one else is made up. It's a review. In the review, on the responsibility of the reviewer, on his conscience, must be reflected and these measures should be reflected whether there is plagiarism or no plagiarism. You can't always get the plagiarism. It may be caught even after the entire procedure has been completed, after the person who plagiarized has received his scientific position, his scientific degree, to be caught after years and therefore goes to the Committee on Appelation, which takes appropriate measures. I do not see exactly how plagiarism can be formulated, except in a single way, that there is a direct use of a foreign text in which foreign research is taken, even if it is quoted, if the text is literally adopted on page two, three, four, there are cases of 20, 100 and so on. I won't list cases I'm well aware of. Then it must be plagiarism. Plagiarism can be placed and discussed in the Committee of Appellation itself. It can be corrected, corrected and so on. I don't see how that can be formulated. It is known that in international terms there are even computer programs that compare the texts and clearly say: this is plagiarism, this is not plagiarism.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u57	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Second line? I don't see a second line. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u58	Mrs. Chairman, colleagues, prof. Stanilov! Thank you, firstly, for the opinion expressed that a permanent committee is still needed to deal with procedures, their manner of conduct and also with problems related to plagiarism. The other means that in practice, we can selectiveally solve the matter of one candidate or another, whom someone is writing against. In the scientific community, I have to tell you, they write a lot. And when someone is not well placed, writing is the first and main task. There must be real objectivity and this Commission must have the opportunity, the apparatus and also sufficient registers to be able to do its job. Regarding the review assessment. Look, I've seen reviews that are Copi-Pest only on top change the name. Provided that in the entire scientific fields we are left without people who can write reviews, there was soon a statement, which shows that in the field of chemical sciences for example we cannot find three reviewers, habilitated, there is no interest, there is no development, how will it happen? [[GERB lines.]] That is why the proposal that was made by us and in the previous Law was that the close scientific directions should be taken into account, because in a narrow scientific direction you can have two or three people, which means that only these two or three people will be in the turnover of writing reviews. Therefore, in scientific fields that are tangent to the main, people can be included to engage and be evaluators in the jury. It's an extremely complicated matter. In my opinion, especially with the science indicators, the experience of the councils that were in place until 2000 should be shared. Each council had precisely such requirements for candidates, which assessed whether they were sufficient to implement the procedures in the next stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u59	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Any further comments? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Higher education and science also need modernization and the introduction of uniform criteria for evaluation and growth. As a representative of the academic community, I can say that such a bill has long been expected and is causing numerous discussions in the scientific circles. No more, no less, with the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in Bulgaria, we are taking a step in the right direction, dictated by stakeholders to provide conditions for objective, impartial and lawful application of uniform national requirements to candidates for the acquisition of degrees and the occupation of academic positions in higher schools and scientific organisations, which will lead to a harmonious link between the scientific achievements of candidates and the opportunities for their academic development. With this Draft, we aim to address several major issues concerning the development of academic staff, such as: the lack of common standards on scientific achievements necessary for the acquisition of scientific degrees or the occupation of academic positions; the lack of sufficiently stringent requirements for the professional competence of members of the scientific jury; the lack of specific mechanisms for effective control, including by the Minister of Education and Science, of procedures during and after their completion, as well as the lack of a regulatory mechanism laid down in the special law to combat plagiarism in the academic community. Those problems and the opportunities created for subjectivism in the framework of such public relations can be resolved permanently, only at the legal level through the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, whose strategic objectives include the establishment of a national general framework for participation in the procedures for the acquisition of scientific degrees and for the adoption of academic posts, of course, in line with the specifics of scientific fields and professional directions; the introduction of rules for persons who will participate in the scientific jury; they must meet the minimum national criteria for the acquisition of scientific degrees and the occupation of academic positions; the establishment of a public register as an electronic basis of persons who have acquired scientific degrees in the higher schools and scientific organisations in the Republic of Bulgaria, of the protected works and habilitated persons in the country. What is new here is that they will include the science indicators, as well as the indicators that reflect the academic achievements of the candidates, i.e. those who have already taken scientific positions. The fight against plagiarism is regulated, which is an important issue related to improving the quality of education and research. The procedure for exercising control by the Minister of Education and Science on the activities of higher schools and the conduct of the procedures for the acquisition of scientific degrees and the taking of academic positions is further developed. Our aim is to introduce criteria for academic growth to take place under the conditions of genuine competition of the scientific and teaching achievements of each individual candidate, and not merely of binding his incomes to a achieved academic title. This, agree, will have the greatest effect on improving the quality of scientific production in the country. In this regard, the proposed changes to the BSP Bill take a step back towards the way the Bulgarian academic community is developing, trying to restore the role of the state in the control and distribution of salaries within academic autonomy. It is not the work of the state, it is the task of the management of the university and it is what must decide whether and how to bind the income of its employees to their academic achievements. From the texts, social populism and a desire to allocate targeted funds, not according to the quality of the academic staff, but according to a highly expanded budgetary framework. There is no logical financial justification for the Left Bill to serve such a proposal, but this is the least. In fact, the big problem is that the philosophy of the proposal to directly bind the academic staff's incomes to the minimum wage in the country is populist in nature and financially unhealthy. However, it also contradicts sound logic because it attacks the key principle of academic autonomy and tries to restore the direct dependence of the academic community on the executive, whoever it is. The bill, submitted by GERB and by the United Patriarchs, does not aim at populist proposals relating only to the minimum financial parameters of the salary in the academic community. With our bill, we oppose the shocking production of academic staff through the introduction of modern and established criteria and standards. It is a logical consequence and a continuation of our efforts in the previous National Assembly to put order in an area that has been covered by chaos in recent years. Our bill also takes another step in the right direction.. ensures the cessation of the mass and uncontrolled award of scientific degrees and titles to people who often do not make any significant scientific contributions and achievements. It regulates for the first time clearly and precisely the abuse of foreign academic achievements and the punishments for plagiarism, a problem that we are witnessing in the modern world. Last but not least, this bill is vitally necessary for it to be able to step on the new National Strategy for Research Development. This move will ensure a long-term, balanced and harmonious development of this sector, without falling in one direction or another, depending on the public situation. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Professor Bachvarova, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, how will you return to your university and say that the salaries received by the lecturers there are high enough, motivated and in accordance with the quality of their work? Svishtov is one of the universities that has no high average salary, but you have to explain to them that you do not want to increase their salary. You say autonomy. What autonomy will be violated, provided that the subsidy for the maintenance of a student is increased and this enables the guides to motivate those who work at universities according to the results, but will have the opportunity to increase these salaries and not to reduce them, because the number of students also decreases. Each university will feel it in the coming years. The Agricultural Academy. How to increase his salary, with the budget of the Agricultural Academy coming with a number, Fund medium? How do I do that? You have a budget. The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences asked for a ten million increase with the Budget Act. It wasn't provided. You must carry out research and pay the work of those who work more dignifiedly. If they're both not in the same institute, in the same scientific organization, that means there won't be a scientific process. And don't tell me what's populist! Yours is populist because you don't want to open your eyes to reality. In the Commission, all the speakers spoke about the low wage of labour. [[Comments from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u63	Thank you, Professor. Bachvarova. Second line please, Mr. Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u64	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Stoyanova! It seems to me that we are going again, addressing all my colleagues, politicizing the debate. This is a very specific matter and I ask everyone to go down to the level of matter and, if we can, continue the debate in a purely professional way. The questions that are also addressed in the Bill of Prof. Stanilov, and in the Bill proposed by the BSP for Bulgaria, are very specific and affect some of the scientific potential of Bulgaria. I can say this as a person who has almost entirely grown up in the medical science circles in the Republic of Bulgaria "a group of scientific figures who are in a very serious and difficult situation at the moment. I can quite responsibly share that the interest in scientific work is not only in the field of medicine, which is high-tech, but also in many areas of life not seriously, but has fallen dramatically. We have the phenomenon of Bleeding country, as the Irish of their history call it, a bleeding country. We run out of brains, mainly for financial reasons, which is a very serious argument, a very serious problem. It is not only a problem for Bulgaria, it is a problem for the whole of Eastern Europe. Estonia has lost one third of its population in the last twenty years after the changes. In this sense, there are strong reasons for the proposal presented as a bill by the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. There are no doubt that there are serious reasons in some of the proposals of Prof. BSP's team. Stanilov, who proposes this Bill. However, I have a bearing on some of these proposals, and I would like to share it here. When they're done centrally...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u65	Maybe in a statement, Mr. Mihailov. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u66	It's not a statement. I'm talking...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u67	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u68	Can I finish with one sentence?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u69	One sentence!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u70	Thank you. I would like to ask both Mrs. Stoyanova and everyone else who will speak to concentrate on the proposals and not to draw conclusions on populism or, so to speak, the appropriateness of the proposals, as they are very specific and should not be politicised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u71	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Third line? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u72	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, how do you explain to your students that you need to raise their semester fees to raise your salaries when you do not have a logical financial justification for the bill you are proposing? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Quiet, please! Come in, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u74	In connection with the call: "Let's go back to the matter " a few words on the draft law which BSP imports. I have been speaking these words for thirteen years in connection with this Law. Thirteen years of this tribune, that's what I'm talking about. I have come to a position to insult the Prime Minister who was sitting here with the question: Who convinced the Prime Minister of the Bulgarians that they do not need high fabrics, that they are stupid, simple and stupid? I repeat what I have also said in the Commission: this is a matter of public opinion. The whole society must come to the point that it needs science and that these brains should not run out of the country and that we should become a high-tech, developed state that deals with these things as well as other countries. The Academy of Sciences, which is at the European average, the only institution that has a positive European audit that really resembles the Academy of Sciences, the research structure. And I'll tell you something that goes against everything else. This, to determine the basic salaries of the research group of university lecturers cannot happen by such law, and you know why it really can't happen. Because there must be money in the budget itself, that is, when we make the budget, such money must be provided. Secondly, because these salaries are not determined by the National Assembly, these levels are not determined by the National Assembly, but by the Council of Ministers. This can even happen without law if the Council of Ministers makes such a decision. Here's my drastic suggestion: as you so want this to happen, I regret that Mrs. Ninova is not here, to ask for a meeting with Mr. Borisov, to tell him very simple thing: you want us to rule together, you want us to support you with a stable government, here, let us shake hands and solve this issue together. Call on all heads of parliamentary parties to agree and the Council of Ministers to make a decision. This is how at the current level this can be decided. There's no other way. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u75	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. For a line, Mr. Mirchev? First line, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! Deeply esteemed by me, Professor. Stanilov, we are not in parliament to hold hands and dance together up and down. We're here to have a debate. And when you say that the system of science is really bled out by finances, you should vote when there are proposals to correct this disability, not to justify that we weren't sitting at the same table and I don't know what. This is the place to debate, to lay down the rules. When you claim that you have fought for a long time for worthy funding in science and people of science, academic staff and to vote in this way, and not because of the fact that you have entered into some coalition of the bargain, to say: "I am for more money, but I will not support it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u77	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. Second line? The hole is a prof. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u78	I'd like to remind the BSP that I've never been involved in anything, and that's recognized by them. I want... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Isn't that true? [[Voices in "BSP About Bulgaria": Aaa!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u79	Who said that? To stand up and say "b" and say "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and "a" and When have I ever been in business? When have I ever been in business?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u80	Not you, the coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u81	I'm in the coalition, have I ever been in business? Am I acting like a prank now? I told you how it could really happen. And I don't want you to give me any advice. I have 13 years of experience, we know what's supposed to happen. And what you're offering yourself, you know that's not gonna happen. How many times in a row do you propose, draft laws where you have to take money from the budget? A budget money, if it is not converted, to update again, money cannot be taken. Therefore, a general decision is required for everyone, not just the opposition. And provoke me here with that vote! Well, when I vote on this, and the others vote against it, will it work? No, it's not gonna work!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u82	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. [[The National Representative Snezana Dukova wants the floor.]] Since we're going to alternate the groups Mr. Mirchev asked before you, Mrs. Dukova. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! Professor. Stanilov, I will start by saying that we are not talking about determining these minimum remunerations, about the current budget, but from 2018. That is, we will have time in the budget for 2018 to bet the corresponding raising of funding in the science part. Because one of the colleagues from GERB, who spoke, I fully agree with you, colleague, that there is chaos in science and academic circles. There's chaos and I'll tell you why there's chaos. There is chaos because Boyko Borisov 1.. this government, 2010 one of the first, i.e. the mandate started with a change with the destruction of Bulgarian science. Since then, all the problems that we are trying to solve right now are right on the basis of these solutions. Let's not forget 2009 when Djankov said: "We will stop their money, they will die themselves. Since 2009, there has been a permanent exsanguination of science and a genocide on Bulgarian science. [[Relations from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]] Colleague Damyanova, you jump from place to place every single speech. There are procedures here. Let Mrs Karayancheva explain the procedures if you are not aware. I'll tell you what I mean by financial exsanguination. In the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences assistant is a beginner scientist, if you do not know, takes a gross salary of BGN 605, non-scientific staff has a salary of BGN 609. How do you want to have young scientists when unscientific staff gets more money? For a young scientist, I will give you an example in Germany, the starting salary is 4300 euros. And to give you an example, the productivity of Bulgaria and Germany is one in three, but the wages are not one in three, but are one in fifteen. And we want to keep young scientists here?! Of course they'll run away immediately abroad. Since you have also spoken about autonomy, I am very interested to refer, for example, to the people who are judges, because they are quite separate from us, but see what the State Budget Act says. The sum of the basic monthly remuneration for the lowest judge's, prosecutor's and investigator's position for 2016 is BGN 1732. What mistake of autonomy are we talking about? Here we are talking about putting some initial, basic, financial levels so that we can keep the young Bulgarians who want to do science here in Bulgaria and not run abroad. Those who remain in Bulgaria deal with anything but science, because in science wages are offensively low. A few weeks ago, we also adopted the Strategy for the Development of Science in Bulgaria. That's where we bet that funding should be raised in science. They need to get in there with live money. We are currently offering you a real political solution and you are saying that we are wrong. We remember the BAS presenting the report here. We all said, "Ah, how you do miracles for free!" How Bulgaria, the image of Bulgaria all over the world, the scientific image of Bulgaria comes from BAS. More than 50% of the scientific image of Bulgaria in the world comes from BAS. We sit and say: "Wow, you have no money what miracles you do! " And at the moment when we propose a solution, nothing happens on your part. Your attitude towards science is best shown by statistics. The least scientists of 1,000 people in the European Union are here in Bulgaria. Scientists in Bulgaria are a classic example of working poor. This phenomenon is working poor. Mrs. Damyanova, don't shake my head. With £600. I'm very interested in what science are you going to do?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u84	Mr. Mirchev, don't deal with the colleagues in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u85	Let's not forget Mr. Goranov, as I said about the Strategy for the Development of Science. The strategy for the development of science was prepared by the caretaker government with absolutely all the people of science. They liked this strategy. Mr. Finance Minister's first job was to bleed her financially and turn her into a hollow document. So I'm gonna go back to the first one on our bill. We are now giving you a solution that can find its way in budget 2018, and finally help the Bulgarians to sit here and do science. About the Professor's Bill. Stanilov. Professor Stanilov, we have spoken to you on this bill at the Forty-third National Assembly. He was solving a lot more problems at the time than he is right now. Currently, this bill solves minor problems in the academic sphere rather than the main ones. The important, the key moments are gone. Prof. Bachvarova speaks enough in essence that there can be no random principle in the selection of the jury; that, when we talk about plagiarism, there are already enough electronic systems built into which scientific work is inserted and it is said whether there is plagiarism or not and so on and so forth. Yes, we have criticism of your bill, so we will abstain on it. We will make our proposals between first and second readings. But my request to you is, first of all, it won't cost the state as much as a resource. And secondly, it is extremely important that we build a knowledge society, one of the fundamental principles of the European Union, finally in science, to have a decent wage, because the war that has been going against science since 2009 will finally leave us so far as to be a society of the third world and not of the European Union where we belong. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Colleagues, we'll continue the debate after the break. I'll give you 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u87	Honourable Members, we are continuing with speeches. There are registered MPs. The first request is from the National Representative Snezana Dukova. Mrs. Dukova, you have the floor. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, Professor, I'll sign you up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u88	Honourable Members, Mr. President, honourable professors, assistants, habilitated persons and all persons interested in today's laws! I'm gonna start off off as a non-standard, with a view to thanking professor. Stanilov, whom I do not see here, of course, and the colleagues from GERB for the outstanding work they did under the second Law. I'll split it in two. For me, the first Law of BSP colleagues with Mrs. Klisarova I can divide them as follows: it is pragmatic, but it is instinctive and demagogical, extremely populist, while the second is philosophical and conceptual and aims to change the reality of the system, which has been gasping for so many years and should finally be put in order in it. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't know if I can see the young colleague with a rhythm in his enthusiasm from the stands to tell him... [[The National Representative Stoyan Mirchev enters the hall.]] Here's one thing: I won't take the trust away from him. In this term, I expected him to become more balanced, at some point he did, and I told him it was right, but let's not outbid our fight, no matter who writes our speeches, even if he's a close relative. I'll just say this: when he turns to someone with unpleasant words, let him remember what the National Assembly says: "The Unity does the power! " Indeed, when we are together, we can change something, and this is the algorithm of our work. As for the first bill, fellow Members, see that my enthusiasm has cooled since the break, I will say this: it is another bill which colleagues submit as a Law on Amendment and Supplement, which concerns money. I had the opportunity to say it out of the stands, usually that's what happens, and today's Law is proof of that. I'm going to say two of my own words, because everything I've written is in agreement with both a professor and an expert, so let's not be in the room on this side of which I'm not a habilitated person. I mean, this issue is extremely important. We do not underestimate that the system is underfunded and that wages are high, but I want, when we talk about money, to talk about incomes. And very soon I will come to you with a reference to what are the incomes in the academic staff, in the Rectors staff, in the director's staff of higher education institutions, and then you will find it very surprising, extremely surprising that there is little income there. And second, when we talk and make comparisons between the situation that is in Bulgaria and we make comparisons with other countries, most often you do it on the left hand side with Germany, let's say how many universities there are in Bulgaria, how many of them function and how, and what is the quality that comes from our higher education institutions? Of course, it's not like that everywhere. And let the money, the money, stop BSP thinking that this is the policy that will be made in the National Assembly! Now regarding the first law. I would say that it is indicative of the importance that we attach to this problem, as well as to other areas of education and science. This is really one of the main commitments of the government's management programme: increasing investment in education and guaranteed annual growth of the science budget. At the same time, however, we must make clear that problems in the higher education system are complex and require complex solutions, including financial solutions. Most of them are related, of course, to the achievement of the objectives of the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria. 2017 - 2030, namely: building a sustainable and effective link between higher schools and the labour market and achieving a dynamic correlation between the demand and supply of specialists with higher education. Secondly: structural changes in research organizations to avoid fragmentation and increase the effectiveness of Bulgarian science as a whole, significant identification of the links of science with education, business, public authorities and society as a whole. I believe that the spending of funds to finance higher education and science should be implemented through flexible and effective funding models based on the results achieved in accordance with the indicators introduced through the rating system of higher schools and the rules for assessing the scientific activities of scientific organisations and higher schools. 18 September 2015 These models should stimulate both higher schools and scientific organisations, as well as academic and scientific staff, by means of objective criteria in the rating system, depending on the results achieved and in accordance with the long-term priorities adopted and by analysing the effectiveness of this funding based on an annual assessment of the activities of scientific organisations and higher schools. The Law on the Supplement and Amendment of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board No 754-01-20, the Mechanism for the Equal Increase and Determination of the Mandatory Minimum Limits of the Salaries of the Academic Jobs, including those lecturers and researchers with no results and achievements, does not meet the above performance requirements. Previous experience has shown that equal pay for the different groups of academic staff does not stimulate the attraction of the best scientists and lecturers, their development and competitiveness. The mandatory minimum remuneration thresholds for academic posts should be multi-level, different and linked to assessments of institutional and programme accreditation, rating system, scientific results and individual assessments according to internal quality assessment and quality management systems and training of the academic staff under art. 30, para. 1, t. 15 as well as under Art. 57 of the Law on Higher Education. For the most part, colleagues, in higher schools and currently the salaries for individual academic positions are at the level of proposals in the Draft Law, and in some even exceed them. The Rector shall be the authorising officer of the higher school budget and should assess, depending on budgetary relations, how much remuneration he may negotiate. If necessary, rectors, directors, in agreement with trade unions, may introduce remunerations characterised by minimum insurance thresholds for the different categories of academic staff. We believe that the regulation of remuneration for persons holding academic positions in a regulatory act is legally based, but the use of the minimum wage as the only basis for further increases is an inaccurate method and in the future can lead to serious disproportions. There is no analysis and justification for the specific amounts of the proposed minimum salaries for the individual academic positions in the draft law. In this regard, we consider it appropriate not to support the bill in this form. The proposed Draft in our opinion should be revised and more flexible and effective funding mechanisms should be put in place to enable complex and long-term resolution of problems in the higher education system, as well as to be extremely important, widely discussed with the academic community. I'm moving on to the second bill for the development of the academic staff. He's been accepted by the academic community several times. On the one hand, the Law responded to the long-standing requests for simplification and shortening of the procedures for acquiring scientific degrees and academic titles. At the same time, the lack of universal requirements for the scientific results needed to acquire a scientific degree and to hold an academic position led to a significant reduction of these procedures without being comparable on an institutional and national scale. This problem was further complicated by the lack of sufficiently strict requirements for professional competence, ethics and objectivity of the members of the scientific jury, as well as by the lack of specific mechanisms for effective control of procedures both during and after their completion. This created opportunities for subjectivism in the work of the scientific jury, including no sanctions and responsibilities in the unholy performance of their duties. The results of the implementation of the Academic Board Act show that there are problems that contradict the main objective of its development, namely: improving the quality of the academic staff in compliance with the principles of academic autonomy. Mostly these problems, in my opinion, come down to the following: lack of minimum requirements for scientific competence and productivity to acquire a scientific degree of education and to occupy academic positions. There are still no minimum requirements in the Rules of some scientific organizations for implementing the Law to acquire a scientific and educational degree. In many places, there is no Ethical Commission to solve ethical problems related to plagiarism, conflict of interest. I'm opening a clamp here. You know that I put it in my speech a while ago. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u89	I can't hear what you're saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u90	You don't have to, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u91	Colleagues, at such a time, the debate between us is unnecessary, and some of you on social issues are great specialists when written to them. So don't let them call!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u92	Go on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u93	...to solve plagiarism issues, conflict of interest. As a rule, such a commission is the prerogative of professional organisations such as the Union of Scientists, who has refused to take on this responsibility as they have accepted it for other purposes, such as the Union of Doctors and others. So far, plagiarism has been left in the hands of directors and rectors as well as the court. However, the issue of plagiarism with rectors and directors has not been resolved, the lack of a control body for how competition procedures can be carried out, except in a court which, however, refuses to take part in scientific procedures and ethics. For example, in some decisions of the scientific jury, as well as the faculty, relevant to the scientific councils, there are no motives leading to subjectivity and lack of transparency in conducting the procedures for taking up academic positions. The proposed amendments and additions will provide conditions for the objective, impartial and lawful application of uniform national requirements to applicants for the acquisition of scientific degrees and the taking of academic positions, which will, in my opinion, lead to a harmonious link between the scientific results of candidates and their academic development. The Minister of Education and Science acquires an opportunity for administrative control and for the application of the minimum national criteria, as well as the activities of higher schools and scientific organizations in carrying out the procedures for the acquisition of scientific degrees and for the holding of academic positions in accordance with the requirements of art. 53, para. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and Decision No 11 of 5 October 2010. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria on the procedures both during and after their completion, subject to the provisions of the Administrative-Processory Code on the administrative dispute of the relevant acts issued by the bodies of higher schools and scientific organisations in the procedures carried out under the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber. The amendments and additions do not affect the basic principle of academic autonomy of higher schools laid down in this Law on the Development of the Academic Board and in the Law on Higher Education, but introduces minimum scientific criteria for quality, productivity and ethics in procedures. In the medium term, the Law will lead to objectivity and impartiality in the assessment, as well as equal treatment of candidates, improving the quality of the academic staff by creating conditions for objective competition based on national requirements, improving the quality and quantity of scientific production in Bulgaria, ensuring effective control in the conducted procedures. In addition, the proposed Draft for amendment of the Law removes some ambiguities and contradictions allowing a mixed interpretation in the application of its provisions. Dear colleagues, the problem is serious and important, and I sincerely hope that the flow of thinking in implementing this Bill and the changes that we propose will be objectively accepted by you and despite your fluctuations you will support because it is necessary for the system. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Are there any lines? Yeah, come on in. First line. You have the floor, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I will ask for an extension of time so that I do not miss later, as other colleagues will also want a speech. Dear Mrs. Dukova, you're talking about disproportions. I'm gonna read your data a little bit when you say you're gonna ask for it yourself, but I'm gonna give it to you. They are based on the end of 2016, CSTs. Average gross wages at the Economic University of Varna, and UNWE. In Varna is BGN 2061 and in the UNWE BGN 1377. Here we are talking about a great disproportion, because I do not believe in the Economic University of Varna education to be twice better than in the UNWE. We all understand this thing! And I'll give you another number to compare. At the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences the average salary is BGN 741. And here we're talking again about huge disproportion, approximately three to one, and we're talking about efficiency, as you intervened. BAS, as I said in its previous speech, represents the face of Bulgaria in science by more than 50%. And you're talking about efficiency! There's efficiency in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, but apparently there's a lot of disproportion on pay. So this thesis is not right! I'll be back. The first finance minister to decide to destroy science was Djankov said: "Let's leave them without money, they will disappear!" And the current minister said something very interesting: "We don't need fundamental science, we just need applied science. " Excuse me, but the fundamental is the foundation, it's the foundation. You can't do it without her! And because you said about writing and reading. Mrs. Dukova, you didn't stop reading, and I didn't look at anything because you said someone was writing to someone. We know who's writing! I'm talking emotionally because science hurts me personally. Because the last seven years the executioners of science are precisely the finance ministers of GERB and these are the defenders of mediocrity. And all this is understandable because the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, the only book he has read, is called Winnetou. [[Noise, lines and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u96	Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u97	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Dukova, I did not understand from your statement this good decision that the BSP offered, did they actually offer it during the three coalitions during the Oresharski period? Why don't you ask them that? Why didn't they offer this a very good solution then? Why didn't they solve the problem of Bulgarian science at the time of the three coalition or at the time when Prime Minister Oresharski, mentioned by the DPS, because they were the junior partner of the DPS then, why didn't this wonderful solution offer it then and solve Bulgaria's problems? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u98	Thank you. Third line? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Dukova, I now want to say that there is no populism in this speech, and even less populism in the BSP proposal. No, it's not populist! This is an alarm for Bulgarian science and higher education in Bulgaria. And in no case can we say that the moment is not worrying with all the data submitted so far. About the minimum, so-called salaries................................................................................................. They do not in any way violate autonomy and do not in any way violate the individual approach to each scientist. Because, I think, we all know, in universities there is an attestation, on the basis of which is carried out the differentiated or individual pay of each lecturer relative to the number of lectures, hours. Every year we do for each semester even report on how much lectures, exercises, scientific achievements, science indicators are. So this does not violate this approach. Secondly, it is very clear to you that when the assistant for three years has not defended a dissertation under the Higher Education Act, he leaves the system. Here, these are control mechanisms and mechanisms that motivate young scientists to work more. About the disproportions. I don't mean disproportions only at the university. Can a research worker get a salary that a middle-class worker gets? Isn't that disproportion in society? Can I have a minimum wage of $380? And £420. A research worker? And just for the next line, I don't know if I have the right to do it, but I'm saying what we did. In 2008, we increased the subsidy to higher schools by 70 million. lv. compared to 2007; in 2009 This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years. compared to 2008 and in the same year 450 BGN monthly payment. So BSP is consistent in its policy to increase the incomes of young scientists and workers. I can tell you what happens in 2010. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. less than 2009 and 50 million less than 2011. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Klisarova. Here you go, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, I can't tell how good and white I am. Mr. Mirchev, you give me selective data showing that there is some disproportion and what is like salaries in two institutes and in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Why don't you give me a quality analysis, and you do extraordinarily just quantitative analysis? Why do you say from this tribune that students are constantly slowing down? What's the resource? On the basis of that, I'm going to make an extremely rich reference. First of all, what income do teachers have, not because I don't want their salaries to be increased and because I don't agree with this thesis, but it's not justified enough and it doesn't belong here. I now believe that the Law on Higher Education must be changed very quickly. I'm not going to ask personal professors on the left how many universities go to teach, when they have time for this and how many quality students come out of their teaching? Secondly, colleagues, science is important, not only fundamental science, applied science, all science is important. Don't underestimate science or clone it on an unprincipled basis. Science is the one that must truly deserve what is due to it, but when it gives the quality result and has to have measurement criteria that meet this result. Apropo, Mr. Angelov, don't be surprised. It's typical of this style. I definedly said that from this tribune you have to talk like this and will be spoken like this until the end in every law: money-money-prim! Because when they're in the opposition, colleagues talk about a lot of money. But when they're in charge... Colleague Mirchev, I'm not going to be rude, I'm having a hard time handling myself right now. You cannot insult and afford from this tribune this unworthy line for the Prime Minister of Bulgaria. How many of your fellow ministers will you give me as an example, Oresharski will you give me as an example, driven by white buses?! In Bulgaria, there is no better politician and a better European politician than the prime minister of Bulgaria. Shame on you, fellows! [[(Strong noise and chanting in BSP for Bulgaria.) ……]] There hasn't been such disgraceful thinking in any... Too bad that makes him a colleague who's young and lives in another time! Apropo, I have to tell you that gene is gene. It's hard to change. It's the truth! Professor Klisarova, there's demagogy in this whole thing. There may be no populism, but this demagogy is not quality. When it is not justified, when there is no economic, when the budget is estimated for the year when you have not changed in any way at your time when you were a minister by how much increased?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u102	Your time, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u103	Do you want me to tell you in numbers how much we give for education and science? I'm ashamed to tell you because you need to get out of the room. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll make all the inquiries, I promise my colleagues, and I'll give them to you for your information. Be tolerant of what you do. Respect those who rule, they're better than you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u104	Thank you. Here you go, Professor. Mihailov's way of conducting it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u105	I would like to ask you, Mr. Chairman, not to make such insinuations from the MPs about the genetic fund. Such a statement is extremely deviant, I call it in the most cultural way. There can be no characteristic of a Member of the National Assembly for his genealogy and to suggest the saying that the Apple almost falls far from the tree. I ask you very much to respect the good tone in this House and not to allow speeches that are more similar to the exact term in medicine is a word salad. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u106	Professor, thank you. I think this time, too, the issue raised is a matter of self-control. We have no way of knowing what the speaker will say in the next sentence. Professor Gechev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It will be very difficult for me to reach the level set here by the parliamentary tribune, but I will make a timid attempt. My fellow Members, what are the conclusions of the discussion so far, and how would I like to be useful? Firstly, is it true that the draft law proposed by the Left meets the European Union Strategy for the creation of a knowledge economy for the competitiveness of the European Union and that without exception all commissioners, all the governments of the Member States say that higher productivity can come from a stronger science, fundamental and applied? Do we have a difference? We don't! The second, in terms of European practice. Dear colleagues, I have not heard any argument and there is no way, but this Law corresponds to the practices of Germany, France, Italy, Spain, the Czech Republic, Poland, Hungary, Slovakia. I mean, we're not offering anything new, nothing unverified. These are practices in Europe. What's the difference, fellow Members? As you have heard from the speeches and from the discussions in various committees, the difference is as follows in the European Union: in some countries there is a minimum wage, there is no maximum limit; in leading countries, including Germany, there is a limit; in most countries there is no limit. We suggest that there be no, as it is closer to what is currently functioning in the Bulgarian economy. We have the practice of other countries and we propose that there should be a minimum wage and that the maximum wage should be opened. So here we offer European practice and offer policies of the European Union under which several Bulgarian premieres have signed. Secondly, in terms of minimum wage, what act is this? Look, honourable Members, there is no way to call populism or carelessness what the Federal Republic of Germany and the other countries that I have told you. You mean that these developed peoples are populists, they so populist bring in minimum and maximum wages. Sorry, that's an argument that crashes into the first second. It was suggested that the minimum wage was against autonomy. That's the most ridiculous statement. Let me tell you how that sounds. One doctor of nuclear physics at the Academy of Sciences or University for example his starting salary was BGN 623. And when it's BGN 850. He's losing his autonomy, my dear. If we give him his salary, £2,000. He goes back to the slave society, he has no autonomy. [[Radio.]] Sorry, that's against common sense. The argument that by raising the minimum wage and providing a minimum for the existence of a doctor in natural or social sciences, or any sciences, he loses autonomy. So, someone's lost their mind saying something like that. Let's ask the researchers if they want to lose their autonomy. You know what: everyone wants to lose this autonomy.. autonomy of 460 BGN, shame and disgrace for a European state. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So this argument is absurd, he talks about mental problems. [[Noise and lines from GERB. A line from the National Representative Milena Damyanova.]] No, that argument hasn't been said here. I've heard it elsewhere. [[Reply by MP Milena Damyanova.]] Yeah, about the mental problems. Secondly, for the university budget. My fellow Members, how many times has it been explained and it is clear from the draft law that this is not at the expense of the current budget of the university, as it is in Europe, these 60 lv. will be provided from the central budget. This, firstly, does not put the financial system of universities at a disadvantage the opposite, and, secondly, please do not speculate on student fees. There is no connection between Germany and Italy and Bulgaria between the student fees and these minimum salaries provided by the budget. So let's not fool the academic and student community including this. The next argument put forward as a third argument is the question of quality. Fellow Members, other countries and peoples in their laws have resolved this issue. In Germany the salaries are from.. to, there is a scale with six additional indicators.. for the quality and place of scientific publications, for scientific products, patents and licenses where there are, for the quality of teaching, for the occupation of academic positions. The other countries signed it 70 and 100 years ago. What's there to look for? So the minimum wage is only minimal, from then on the better researchers, the better teachers will have the opportunity to receive higher incomes. Furthermore, when you say that the university could not measure the quality, given that the whole of Europe has such instruments, and in Bulgaria we have an accreditation system. I'm sorry, if you're saying, how are we going to give the same salary to everyone and that the whole of Europe has gone wrong, only some people here are on the right track, I would ask you: how is it with the teachers? We've quite rightly raised teachers' salaries. However, the tragedy is that now a young man graduating from the university, for example, Pedagogics, by going to school, after the promotion he will take more than his professor at Sofia University, which is a second time contrary to common sense. Are we not giving teachers equal salaries guaranteed by the budget, or are we getting distracted? Is there no difference between a teacher and a teacher? We all love our teachers, but they're different. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] There is, and there will be in this system. That's by the first law. It responds to European practice and European strategy, applied in the vast majority of European countries, is not a political proposal. Because, look, we're a few more years and we're gonna lose everything we've built for decades in our country of scientific potential. Examples have been presented. The technical university of 30 people in the Department of Mechanics remained 8 people. Of the five people appointed young people in the last three years, four have left the university. Dear colleagues, we are responsible for the future of Bulgaria and it is in science. As far as the second Law is concerned, we will support individual texts that are reasonable, as we all agree that the law in force is unique in a negative sign in the European Union. However, this Law was passed by the government of Mr. Borisov 1 and it led to anomalies and unique changes in the Bulgarian system of higher education. There's nothing wrong with a good professor reading lectures in second place. Since the difference is this, I'll tell you. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. The difference is this: a bodyguard can and should keep only one person, but a professor can lecture at Cambridge and then go to Oxford. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u108	Thank you, Professor. Any lines to the statement? Is there anyone who wants a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u109	They can't and they're not allowed in Oxford.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u110	Mrs. Dukova, do you want a line or not? If there are no lines, a further statement from Mrs. Petrova has been made. Here you are, Mrs. Petrova. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u111	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. I very much liked the recommendation of my colleague on the left, the level to be such that we talk about education and science without unnecessary emotion and without politics. Among the numerous and diverse problems before the Bulgarian higher education are the loss of trust and public prestige of the higher schools in Bulgaria. A vivid expression of this is the weakening interest in the educational product offered by the Bulgarian universities. This phenomenon has its specific reasons. Among them are: a targeted policy towards non-promoting, improving teaching in higher schools, introducing modern methods, forms and means, as well as updating the educational content. Something that has already been achieved in Bulgarian secondary schools. There is not enough effort to develop the academic staff in higher schools. The result of this is visible. Higher education is increasingly lagging behind in good international practice, as it does not comply with its standards. The expression of this is the lack of a Bulgarian university among the leading 700 universities in the world. More than five years after the implementation of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board, which was adopted in 2011, both positive and negative effects can be seen.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u112	Who was it accepted by?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u113	Some of the latter are lack of means of effective state control over the procedures for acquiring scientific degrees and taking up academic positions. The Ministry of Education and Science shall not exercise administrative oversight over their legality. The mechanism for the formation of the assessment bodies is unclear, where they often come across persons who are not impartial in the assessment of their scientific production. Reasonable doubts arise in the objectivity of jury assessments due to lack of universal requirements and uniform rules of work. Almost all candidates to receive degrees or to hold academic positions are supported, which is often paid with a loss of self-esteem and prestige in the professional college. In the proposals by GERB and the United Patriarchs "Project for the Development of the Academic Chamber, part of the proposed amendments and additions are in full compliance with the objectives set out in the Strategy for the Development of Higher Education in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2014 - 2020." A large part of the selected problems are solved, namely: essential for the development of the academic staff is the introduction of uniform state requirements, as well as the control of their compliance. In the draft Law, the administrative and legal obligations and requirements for carrying out the procedures for scientific degrees and positions are described more clearly and more precisely. The introduction of science indicators will contribute to much more objective criteria for the assessment of scientific works and achievements. The proposed Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Development of the Academic Board consciously feel the changes in line with the European conventions in education. The organization and maintenance of the National Information System of the Ministry of Education and Science, through its various registers, allows to see the scientific development of the academic field. The regulatory settlement of the fight against plagiarism is a very important problem related to improving the quality of education and research. According to research in Romania, the cases of plagiarism are a quarter of all the work of the candidates, i.e. a widespread phenomenon, with disastrous consequences for scientific morality and for the development of scientific personnel. I consider it appropriate that the plagiarism established by law is an obstacle to holding an academic position forever. The uniform requirements stimulate publications in scientific journals with an impact factor and an impact rank included in a global system for referencing, indexing and evaluation. Students at universities rarely receive high-quality training in order to teach. This is one of the findings in the report - Modernisation of Higher Education in Europe. Academical composition 2017" published soon by the European Commission. It analyses qualification requirements, the development process of academic staff, employment and working conditions in 35 countries. The European Commission recommends modernisation of the sector and academic staff. There is an imbalance between the opportunities of young and older teachers, between men and women, the progress seen in innovation. According to our analysis, our country has modest achievements in innovation and the development of academic staff. Therefore, the adoption of the additions to this Law will provide a good basis for the growth of quality and highly qualified staff and, I hope, for the real development of young scientists in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u114	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Are there any lines to the statement? No. A statement by Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is difficult to resist good intentions directly, but it is also known that the road to hell is paved with good intentions. I would like to take the floor on the problems of higher education and, above all, of state universities. Why won't I personally support this Law? Because, I'll say, he's politically deliberate. I'll make my case, honourable Members. State universities under the Higher Education Act work under the conditions of strict, structural and functional regulation. They are obliged by law to meet high requirements for the structure of the main and subsidiary units in universities. Something that doesn't apply to private universities. They must be responsible for the number of lecturers in the department, in the faculty, in order to obtain accreditation and to work. In short, the Law introduces in a regulation for state universities heavy organizational requirements in order to be able to teach certain disciplines, certain directions. There can be no faculty and hence training in one professional direction if it does not correspond to a certain number of lecturers. This in itself, you have economists, means that this education is expensive because more than 80% of the expenditure in higher education is the Fund of Employment. And that's legal regulation. Secondly, again by legal regulation, state universities form their budget mainly from two feathers: from the state subsidy and from the fees for the training of students. The state subsidy is determined by the state, the fees from the academic community and the management under conditions of brutal competition and fighting for each student. Under these circumstances, state universities would face a serious case if this Law were now adopted. And I'll tell you why. This Law can, by its nature, be defined as a budgetary law. Because he predestined, as you mentioned here, budget expenditures. It envisions, as mentioned by this platform, minimum salaries to be guaranteed by the budget. I think that if such a bill should be considered, it should be considered within the framework of preparing the future budget for next year. However, if the situation in the country changes in negative terms and the budget cannot provide these requirements, the universities will be faced in the corner or comply with the Law and seek additional revenue that will not be provided by the state budget, i.e. increase the fees, or break it. In this respect, it is important to emphasise that the Law in this situation leads to a deepening of problems in higher education. He, on the one hand, is good for those universities that are pressured by the circumstances cannot meet these requirements because he promises them State aid and state support. But, on the other hand, for other universities that have good financial opportunities, it's pointless because they've already gone far beyond these minimum levels. I think that when we talk about higher education, we should start from changing the Higher Education Act and at least levelling state and private universities in regulation and requirements for their activities. Because, on the one hand, the state has now given the opportunity to wide, fold and adaptive structure of private universities, to which these state structural and functional requirements do not apply, and on the other hand, we require our state universities to train with more lecturers, with more structural units less students. Therefore, we will refrain from supporting this bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u116	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. - What's the line? I can't see. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Mrs. Damyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u117	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The bill that we are proposing together with the United Patriarchs. I would like to stress that it is not about how many professors, docs and doctors there are in Bulgaria, nor are these changes that regulate some new rules for acquiring degrees and for occupying academic positions. The repairs have several goals. These amendments aim to regulate quality, aim to restore confidence in the selection of new doctors, docs and professors in Bulgaria, to ensure transparency of procedures, to introduce control and protection of teaching and scientific work. What is the current situation in Bulgaria? According to the National Statistics in Bulgaria there are now 243 thousand. 199 students. For comparison, 2011 The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) 292 and were trained by a total of 22 thousand. 955 professors, of them 2576 professors, 7139 docs and 9881 assistants. Currently, with a smaller number of students, the number of professors is 3378, the number of docs 6312 and the assistants 8674. In other words, this data shows that we do not have some unprecedented boom, but at the same time we have a serious problem and this problem is not in the number of professors who have been habilitated, but in the lack of clear guarantees and clear mechanisms for control of the quality of scientific potential, but from there the quality of teaching and the quality of the scientific product in Bulgaria respectively. It is a fact that in recent years it has been extremely devalued in confidence in the value of habilitations and in the academic positions held. The fact is, unfortunately, that bad examples seem to have silenced academic achievements. I will not dwell on these bad examples, not because we should not discuss them today in this House, but because we should rather talk about what we will do and what we need to unite from now on in order not to have such bad examples. Yes, the current Law on the Development of the Academic Board was adopted in 2010, and I will say that it was a step in the right direction in view of the objectives that you set yourself. On the one hand, it aimed to end the vicious practices of the existing VAC at that time. On the other hand, it aimed to give a clear horizon for professional growth to young scientists and young teachers. However, practice has shown that we need new solutions, and that is a fact. Therefore, the proposals we have made are texts that have been discussed for several years, texts that have been discussed in the Committee on Education with scientists. There was also a group of young scientists who made their proposals, and I will say, I said it in the Commission, as far as art. 21 and § 21 of our Draft Law were adopted unanimously in the Committee on Education and Science at the Forty-third National Assembly. I hope we can reach an agreement here, too, because that is necessary. I will not dwell specifically on the proposals, because colleagues before me have already mentioned them, but I will say what we want to achieve with them. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, the most important thing is to restore trust in the choice of docs and professors, to restore trust in academic circles. Secondly, we want to have visible guarantees that every person who acquires a scientific degree who becomes an associate professor or professor meets mandatory minimum national requirements. We want to preserve opportunities for a fast professional career, as is the main objective of the Academic Board Act. We want to maintain academic autonomy for decision-making. In addition, we introduce additional, expanded control functions of the Minister so that it can be pronounced both during the procedures and after their completion, without, however, turning it into a final instance. And last but not least, we want intolerance to plagiarism and protection of personal work, because this is extremely important for our scientists when we talk about scientific activity in Bulgaria. Yes, our proposed bill is not about wages. He directly did not comment on the financing of higher schools and scientific organizations in Bulgaria, but that is exactly what is at the heart of it, because with the changes we want to introduce a new order, we want to put order into the system. We introduce a requirement for high professionalism, we maintain academic autonomy, together with all the changes in the higher education system, which, colleagues on the left, together we made in the Forty-third National Assembly last year, and with the changes that are coming, actually guarantee financial stability of the sector. They guarantee the financial sector, on the one hand, and on the other hand, show management care that every lev of the taxpayer will go for what is needed, but will also go for quality, which is also extremely important. It's certainly easier said than paid. It's easy, yeah. Colleagues on the left do it with their proposal, in which they very generously determine who the salaries will be paid by who two, who five and so on. Even braverly pointed out that this would cost the budget a 70 million. lv. I am not quoting the opinion of the Ministry of Finance. It is available on the website of the Education Committee, which says that such resource handling is unprofessional because it is financially unfounded. However, I will allow myself, colleagues, to quote to you a verbatim part of the opinion of the Rector of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. Here's what he writes, I quote: The minimum wage offered is at least twice as high as the current remuneration of Sofia University. At first glance, this means doubling the maintenance subsidy. However, given that at the moment it is only enough for half of the Fund, and the rest of the Fund is provided by own funds, it is necessary to triple the subsidy, or to double the subsidy, but to double the student fees. This is the opinion of the Rector of Sofia University. The latter is not only socially unacceptable, but in order of professional directions it is also impossible, as fees have a legally defined upper limit. I will also quote some of the data of the trade union "High education and science" at the CST for salaries in separate universities. They range from BGN 2061. at the Economic University of Varna, the colleague already mentioned it, between BGN 2061. And BGN 860. at the University of Mine-Geology in Sofia, at the Sofia University, BGN 11,93, at the Medical University in Sofia, BGN 1995, and so on. However, let me remind you that these minimum thresholds, these basic salaries were cancelled in 2006 at the time of the management of the triple coalition, with a government with Prime Minister Sergey Stanishev. The motive for this annulment at the time was that it had to change. Keeping them requires a change of the overall management model of higher schools and scientific organizations in Bulgaria, not that this is impossible. In the countries that you are quoting, Germany and France, the state determines everything, including it appoints the Rectors. But I ask myself, my fellow Members on the left, is it not your proposal precisely a first step towards this change in the governance model and the withdrawal of the autonomy of higher schools and scientific organisations? If so, let us make it very clear that the opposition wants a change in the management model of higher schools and scientific organisations. Colleagues, all who work in the field of education, all who work for education, we know that money is not enough. It's not nice to keep saying that there's no money, to talk about how poor we are. Even heavier is the conversation when we talk about science and scientific activity in the country. That is why we demand a change that will bring order but also a change that will be financially secured, a change that will restore trust in academics. To make it clear which professor why he became a professor, what are his scientific achievements? Because then the students will choose a university because of the professor who teaches in it, because of the science school, because they will see in this university a perspective for their own development. I know that any change is extremely difficult, requires determination and will, because every change stirs the comfort of the status quo. But I also think that in education and science it is high time to stop with populistic measures, and to propose specific things, concrete measures that guarantee quality in the system, quality of education, so that we do not lose our children. To guarantee stability and perspective not only of the system, but also of the people who work in it. In education, we don't need to talk about millions. We need to create opportunities for these millions not tomorrow, but today to be crafted and won for the whole society. Otherwise, we will continue to talk in this Chamber about how we all work on having an economically stable country to keep young people, but, colleagues, the truth is that our conversation is constantly about who we are and whether to give two or three salaries to some people, to others not. And the last sentence that I will say is that the minimum requirements, no matter how many attacks there are to them, actually guarantee one thing that in Bulgaria we will have universities, we will have science and we will not have diploma seats. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u118	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? There's no demand for a statement. Deputy Minister Nikolov is in the hall. Will you take an attitude, Mr. Nikolov? No, you're not taking any attitude. We're closing the debate. We're going to vote on the two bills. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We are voting on the two bills that we have discussed so far, in the order of their submission. I put to the vote a bill supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754 01-20, submitted by Anelia Klisarova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017. Vote 186 MPs: 77, against 40, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, No 754-01-27, submitted by Stanislav Stanilov and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017. Vote 187 MPs: 110 against 9, abstention 68. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to the next item on the agenda. Here's the procedure. [[Replication by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov. Noise and lines.]] Please, Mr. Ivanov, don't help the Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure of admission under point 1. 8 and so on. 9 on the agenda of Mr. Georg Georgiev "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u120	Please vote on the motion for admission. Vote 138 MPs: 110 against 17, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Honourable Members, the next item on the agenda is: LAW FOR THE RATIFICATION OF THE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THE CUBA FOR ANOTHER WITHOUT-COMMERCIAL REPRESENTATIVE REPRESENTATIVES OF THE TWO PARTIES. We will hear a report from the Foreign Policy Committee. Mrs. Grozdanova, come and introduce us to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u121	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the mutual grant of property use for the purposes of the diplomatic representations of the two Parties, No 702-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 5 July 2017, the Committee on Foreign Policy examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the mutual grant for the use of property for the purposes of the diplomatic representations of the two countries, signed on 19 January 2017 in Sofia, No 702-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017. The bill was presented by Mr. Georg Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The reasons of the importer argued that the Agreement was the result of long consultations and negotiations between the two countries and aimed at finding a long-term solution to the property issue used by the diplomatic representations of the two parties. Such property-use agreements by diplomatic representations on a reciprocal basis are common practice between the Parties. Under the Agreement concluded, the Bulgarian State will use two buildings for free for administrative purposes and the other for residence of the Bulgarian Ambassador to the Republic of Cuba. The Cuban side will use one building for administrative needs and residence. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for.................................................................................................. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt, at first reading, a Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the mutual grant for the use of property for the purposes of the diplomatic representations of the two countries, signed on 19 January 2017 in Sofia, No 702-02-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u122	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal in the draft report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u123	Mr. Chairman, please, on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 the newly adopted Law on ratification at first reading is also to be considered in a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u124	Honourable Members of Parliament, we are voting on a motion for adoption in today's sitting at the second reading of the recent votes at the first reading of the Bill. Please vote. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. Please, Mrs. Grozdanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u125	Project! LAW on the ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba on the mutual grant for the use of property for the purposes of the diplomatic representations of the two Parties A single member. Ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Cuba for the mutual grant of property use for the purposes of the diplomatic representations of the two countries, signed in Sofia on 19 January 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u126	Voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted and thus the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Cuba. Next item of our weekly program: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE COMPANY BETWEEN THE GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND THE GOVERNMENT OF THE SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM FOR THE INDEPENDENT REPRESENTATIVES OF THE DIPLOMATIC REPRESENTATIVES OF THE TWO PARTIES. There's a report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Mrs. Grozdanova will introduce us to him. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u127	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the real estate of the diplomatic representations of the two Parties, No 702-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017. At a regular meeting held on 5 July 2017, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the real estate of the diplomatic representations of the two countries, signed on 22 September 2016 in New York, No 702-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017. The bill was presented by Georg Georgiev "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." The reasons for the bill pointed out that the Agreement was a result of 13-year negotiations, in line with the principles of international law and on a reciprocal basis. According to the Agreement concluded, under Vietnamese law, the Bulgarian State, based on a contract for symbolic rent of 1 Vietnamese dong, will acquire the right to use for a period of 99 years on plots with a total area of 2391.32 sq. m and will acquire ownership of current and future buildings and buildings built on them. The Vietnamese side under the order of Bulgarian law, based on a contract for symbolic rent of 1 lev, will acquire the right to use for a period of 99 years per plot with a total area of 2849 sq. m and will acquire the right to property on current and future buildings and buildings on it. It is important to note that under the Agreement, the Bulgarian side undertakes to return to the Vietnamese country a plot with an area of 3243 sq. m in Hanoi, along with the buildings and buildings built on it, and the Vietnamese country will return to the Bulgarian country a plot with an area of 2044 sq. m in Sofia, along with the building on it. The Parties undertake to pay each other the value of the buildings and the buildings on the returned plots as follows: Republic of Bulgaria: 27 000 euros and Socialist Republic of Vietnam - 826 000 US dollars. The Vietnam SR government will pay this amount at the US dollar/euro rate of the State Bank of Vietnam. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy with 15 votes for.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria to adopt, at first reading, a bill for ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the real estate of the diplomatic representations of the two countries, No 702-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Honourable Members, you have the floor for speeches on the proposed bill. I don't see any requests for speeches. I vote on Draft No 702-02-3, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 22 June 2017 on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. Please, voting mode. They voted 122 MPs: for 121, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u129	Mr President, I ask that the bill of ratification which has just been adopted at first reading be dealt with in a second vote in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u130	Thank you. We are voting on the proposal to adopt a second reading of the bill which has just been examined. Please, voting mode. 125 MPs voted: 124, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Grozdanova, please report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u131	Project! LAW ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the real estate of the diplomatic representations of the two Parties A single member. Ratifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the Real Estate of the Diplomatic Representations of the two Parties, signed on 22 September 2016 in New York City.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-07-13.u132	Colleagues, voting regime for the adoption of a second reading of the reported text. Vote 127 MPs: for 126, against none, abstention 1. The proposal is adopted and thus the Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam on the real estate of the diplomatic representations of the two countries. Dear colleagues, the next item in our weekly programme is: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. It will be held in tomorrow's meeting, 14 July 2017, Friday, 9.00 hours. Allow me to introduce you to the questions that will be asked to the ministers. Debates on an 11:00 question on tomorrow. Control will begin at 9:00. Questions and Questions "9:00 p.m. - The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Atanas Kostadinov. - The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer six questions from the MPs Pencho Milkov and Krum Zarkov; Krasimir Bogdanov; Theodora Halacheva; Krasen Krastev and Asya Peeva; Slavcho Velkov; and Dilyan Dimitrov. - The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer 22 questions from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Stefan Burgeev and Nikola Dinkov; Yavor Bozhankov; Violet Jelev and Nikola Dinkov; Donka Simeonova; Ivan Mihovski and Kalin Vassilev; Vladislav Nikolov; Two questions; Nikolay Syracov and Vasil Tsvetkov; Yordan Mladenov; Georgi Gyokov; Vasil Antonov, Stefan Burgev and Chavdar Velinov; Altimir Adamov; Manol Genchev; and Georgi Chernovalski and Manol Genov. - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer three questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva; Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva; and Teodora Halacheva. - The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; Donka Simeonova; Nina Mitkova; Anelia Klisarova and two questions from the MPs Anelia Klisarova, Ivo Hristov, Nikolay Tsonkov and Stoyan Mirchev; and Halil Letifov, Errol Mehmed, Sergei Kichikov and Ihsan Halil. At the sixth point, the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer 12 questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Ivo Hristov; Georgi Svilenski and Hristo Prodanov; Stefan Apostolov, Daniela Saveklieva, Georgi Dinev, Alexander Matsurev and Dimitar Gamishev - The Minister of Culture Boyl Banov will answer four questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; Georgi Yordanov; Stoyan Mirchev; and Georgi Tarnovalyski. - The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will answer 15 questions from the MPs Veselin Mareshki; Krastina Taskova; Ivelina Vassileva; Stefan Burgev "Two questions; Dimitar Danchev; Dimitar Danchev and Rumen Georgiev; Nadya Klisurska and Kristina Sidorova; Spas Panchev; Stoyan Mirchev and Svetla Bachvarova "Two questions; Dilyan Dimitrov; Dimitar Boychev; and Svetla Buchvarova and Daniel Yordanov and one question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov. - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Gergana Stefanova. - The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer a question from the MPs Vesela Lecheva and Ivan Chenchev. - Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Georgi Turnovaliski. - The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Pavel Shopov; and Vasil Antonov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov to a question by the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to one question by the National Representative Violeta Zheleva and four questions with written answer from the MPs Yordan Yordanov two questions; Nadia Klisurska; and Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to two questions from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of a question by the National Representative Veska Nencheva; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova of a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to two questions from the MPs Martin Tinchev and Dimitar Alexandrov; and Daniela Maleshkova and Vladimir Valev; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to four questions from the MPs Pavel Shopov; Ilian Timchev and Atanas Kostadinov; and Todor Bajchev two questions. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the responses to: - two questions from the MP Petar Vitanov to the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov; and to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov; - two questions from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev; and to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov. In the absence of the country, the Minister for Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Dear Members of Parliament, I am adjourning today's session. Next session, tomorrow, July 14th at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
