ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u1	Hey, guys! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. My fellow Members, at the beginning of yesterday's plenary session, I informed you that during today's meeting in the implementation of point five of the Decision adopting the position of the National Assembly on the draft programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Presidency of the Council of the European Union 1 January 30 June 2018, adopted by the National Assembly on 1 December 2017, the Minister of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova will present to you the programme already adopted by Decision of the Council of Ministers. I also remind you that the programme received at the National Assembly on 11 December 2017 was provided at the beginning of the week by letter to all permanent committees, in the paper parliamentary groups and the MPs of their e-mails. As you know, according to art. 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the members of the Council of Ministers shall have the right to attend the meetings of the National Assembly and may take the floor whenever they so request. Colleagues, after Mrs. Pavlova has finished her statement, I will give five minutes each to a parliamentary group for consideration of the Programme. Moving on to: DEBATS ON THE BULGARIAN PRESENTITY OF THE COUNCIL OF THE EUROPEAN UNION Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u2	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity of today's meeting to present to you the final version of the National Program and the priorities of the Bulgarian Government for the upcoming Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union from 1 January 2018. There are literally few days until the beginning of this very important moment for Bulgaria. Exactly 10 years after Bulgaria's full membership in the European Union, in a situation of serious challenges facing Europe, Bulgaria takes over the Presidency of the Council. Presented to your attention, we have the final version of the Programme, which was adopted at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 6 December 2017. I would like to assure you and thank you that the contribution of the Bulgarian National Assembly, which was adopted and voted on here in plenary on 1 December, has been fully accounted for in the final version of the Programme and priorities. You can see and see for yourself that on all important topics on which the contribution of the National Assembly has been presented, it has been clearly adopted both in terms of cohesion policy, common agricultural policy, future Danube and Black Sea policy for these regions, the digital economy on the economic agenda, in the area of defence and in others, this contribution is clearly taken into account. It is precisely because we appreciate and realise the important role of both the national Parliament and the European Parliament as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon that role is significant. It is the role that we need to take into account, because it is the unity, namely the national continuity and the work of all institutions that will enable us to stand up for both the national interest, but also at the same time what we are called upon to be an honest, impartial balance sheeter, to be the kind of president who seeks the balance that seeks consensus when the compromise is required in the name of achieving the common solution in the interests of the 28 or 27 Member States, depending on the relevant format. [[Noise.]] I also thank each of the parliamentary groups with whom we have had individual meetings. Thank you very much to the parliamentary committees, which also made a hearing with the ministers. Of course, to colleagues from the External Commission, and especially Mr Vigenin, the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, with which we work operationally in constant coordination. His participation in the Council on European Affairs, I think also has an important role, which takes into account the importance of the Bulgarian Parliament. [[Noise and lines.]] From now on, in the preparation...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u3	Guys, please keep it down!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u4	...and the national positions for the participation of the relevant ministers in the meetings, we will also take into account, and take into account, these recommendations, this contribution, which was adopted by the National Assembly on 1 December. In addition to the six meetings from the Parliamentary Dimension, which are important to the Bulgarian Parliament, I would like to assure you that in the forthcoming meetings and the calendar of the Presidency you, the Members of the National Assembly, will be able to participate actively in the specific thematic meetings at both informal councils and high-level conferences and at expert level meetings that concern the sectors of interest and importance for the National Assembly and the relevant parliamentary committees. In the presentation presented with key messages we have especially noted for your information the main meetings from the calendar of the Bulgarian Presidency. The calendar is also ready and complete. In addition to the formal Councils of Ministers, the European Councils as part of the agenda to be held in Brussels and Luxembourg, the meetings in Strasbourg of the European Parliament will be held in Bulgaria 270 meetings from the national dimension, six of which will be from the Parliamentary. We have presented to your attention the main dates on which you will be able to participate. I came back from Strasbourg last night. This was also the first presentation, and the first actual assumption, I would say, at the parliamentary level of the Presidency in the European Parliament. The practice is two to three weeks before the date of taking over the Presidency, the Minister responsible for the Presidency, to present his priorities to the Commission. It was an extremely important and interesting debate in which I presented the priorities. I received a high appreciation for the fact that Bulgaria clearly understands, appreciates and knows the problems, but also the priorities that stand before us. The expectations for Bulgaria are high because 2018 is the last year before the end of the mandate of both the European Parliament and the European Commission. This puts before us a much more ambitious one, I would say, a programme, but also the expectations that by May, together with the European Commission, we will be able to offer attention to all the draft regulations and legislation that stand before us. As well as in 2018, the trialogs, namely the approval of the European Parliament, together with the Council and the Commission, of the important legislation as such, should be completed. I was subsequently invited and participated in a hearing with the European People's Party, the European Party of Socialists and Democrats, the ALDE Party of Liberals, once again a debate on priorities, important topics in the pan-European context and agenda. As you are familiar with the debate that we had on the first, once again to confirm: Bulgaria presented, firstly, its main message, the message of unity, the message of stability within the European agenda, and the four finally adopted priorities for the Bulgarian Presidency. The first is the future of Europe and young people, a priority that concerns the debate not only about the future of Europe, but the role, place, importance of young people as basic capital, what Europe we want and what Europe we want them to live in. Here, particular attention and importance is the debate on the future budget after 2020, in the context of Brexit, as a result of which the European budget is at a minus between 10 and 15 billion. EUR per year. And at the same time, the challenge of how we form the European budget after 2020, which must be proposed now, May, during the Bulgarian Presidency, where the new security, defence, migration and support challenges for the countries of Africa, countries outside the European Union, also requires a budget resource of around 10 billion a year. At the same time Bulgaria, as a country of the last accessions, a cohesion country, must and will stand for the importance of cohesion policy, cohesion funds, which are extremely important for countries such as ours, in order to continue efforts to align the differences in regions and continue investment in improved infrastructure, educational, social, transport and others. The second priority is focused on the Western Balkans and the European perspective and connectivity of the Western Balkans, because in Bulgaria we have applied for this was also the political consensus in Bulgaria, to request to be the Balkan Presidency and to find the important role, importance, because the future of Europe, peace, stability of Europe go through peace and stability in the Balkans and prosperity of the countries of the Western Balkans as well. The third priority is security and stability. Undoubtedly, here is a very important issue related to the problem of migration, the relocation of migrants, the Dublin Agreement, as is more known; the issue of implementing the measures with the Single Defence System, a defence union, which is an extremely important point in the European agenda..................................... which especially the issue of migration does not find consensus and consensus in the decisions. The fourth priority is economy, economic development and growth, with a special focus in the Single Digital Market. The single digital market was a very big effort and success of the Estonian Presidency, which had the digital agenda for its priority, but it remains much more precisely during the Bulgarian Presidency to finish, so the topic of launching, the beginning of the Single Digital Market in real terms remains in the hands of the Bulgarian Presidency. I am confident that with joint efforts we will be able to be active and successfully bring this priority to the end. In conclusion, thank you once again for your support. I hope in the name of the Presidency, the successful presentation of Bulgaria as President of the Council of the European Union, will require political consensus and dialogue, understanding. This is a cause around which we should all be united because if Bulgaria is successful, we will all be successful. For Bulgarian citizens, for European citizens and institutions it does not matter who the institution is. What matters is what the results are. So let us prove once again what stands for the Bulgarian National Assembly that the Unity does the power, as is the motto, the motto of the Bulgarian Presidency. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u5	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, I give you the floor of five minutes per parliamentary group. Mr. Vigenin, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Firstly, I would like to thank Minister Pavlova for presenting today the final version of the Programme and the majority, for giving the parliamentary groups a chance to express their views on how the preparation is finalized and how the Bulgarian Presidency begins. Of course, we have again witnessed the fact that somehow for Parliament this topic is not quite as interesting, but I hope that, with time and with the progress of the Presidency itself, there will be more issues that we can discuss and that we will have an interest in. Thank you for the efforts made by the National Assembly during this period by each political group to prepare our contribution, the decision we adopted a few weeks ago has been taken into account in the final version of the Programme. Some of the elements have been developed in more detail and this is important because, on this basis, the relevant parliamentary committees must carry out control over the implementation of the Programme and of the decision itself, and in particular the Commission on European Affairs. I count on the good interaction that has been demonstrated on this subject so far to continue because only with the joint efforts of the institutions, in the case of Parliament and the parliamentary committees, we can achieve more significant results for Bulgaria. It is not about how much the Presidency will implement these priorities in itself, but about how much this Presidency will be a plus for Bulgaria, for its image, for the policies that will then be realized by the European Union in the interests of countries such as Bulgaria. On Wednesday, in the Committee on European Affairs, we are going to make a final hearing for Minister Pavlova to finalise preparations not only in terms of political priorities, but also purely technical. These are important questions. We have seen when even the best political messages die when a technical problem makes the discussion impossible or blocks the translation. I mention it because these issues are not to be underestimated at all, and I only hope that the delay in the preparation that has taken place in the final is completely overcome. For us it is important, and this is also a matter of work of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria and what are the criteria on which we will finally assess whether this Presidency has been successful. Because the priorities that we have set are realized depends not only on Bulgaria, but in the process of work it will show how much we have been prepared to put these priorities in an adequate way on the European agenda. I would also like to stress that in recent weeks, a thesis has been particularly launched that, within these six months, we should be downgraded, not to put our problems and issues. I think that's the wrong thesis. Of course, it is not rude to put all this to the public, namely on issues such as our Schengen membership, the euro area, the cooperation and evaluation mechanism, we need to use these six months, the contacts that our representatives on all lines will have with the partners, and to put these issues, because, as they say, the iron is forging while it is hot and our Presidency gives a unique opportunity for us to work on these issues. Therefore, you should not approach yourself with low self-esteem on this subject. Two. The question is constantly being raised that during these six months we should almost be here to freeze the internal-political debate, not to confront, not to embarrass ourselves in front of foreigners. Let us be clear, the BSP for Bulgaria is saying that on the issues of the Presidency we will support, we will work together, especially when Parliament is committed, but this does not mean that on all other issues on which an opposition has something to say to the government, we will remain silent. So the no-confidence vote, which is prepared, is not sabotage to the Presidency, but it may be an incentive for the government to work better.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u7	Time, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u8	I'm graduating, Madam President. I mean, we are still seeing ambiguity in terms of the vision that Bulgaria wants to show within these six months. It wasn't a good start. The photos, which were launched as a face of Bulgaria, were assessed by the social networks as quite absurd. Bulgaria is not shepherds and sheep, Bulgaria is not horsemen. Of course, Bulgaria is not only folk songs. Clear grandmothers are a good thing, but let's not get there and let's show off the posters. [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u9	Please, Mr. Vigenin. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u10	Let's show a modern Bulgaria. We have time to correct this. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Any other speeches? Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Minister, colleagues! Two weeks ago, we adopted the draft decision with which all parliamentary groups and MPs said our opinion on how to expand the scope and what should be included in the final version of the proposed draft Programme. In the end, it was so that the government complied with our proposals and they were included in the final version of the Programme, for which we are grateful. Taking into account the role that each rotating Presidency has, we should support our government in seeking to achieve a maximum balance between the specific interests of the Member States in order to achieve the objectives set on the European agenda over the next six months. As has become clear, we are in a trio by the end of 2018. Given the role of national parliaments after the Treaty of Lisbon in forming and implementing the European Union's key priorities, we should pay particular attention to the work that lies ahead for us in the parliamentary dimension together with our fellow Members from other national parliaments, as well as our colleagues from the European Parliament, in order to achieve coherent positions in response to European citizens' expectations. I believe that today's challenges can only be overcome by joint action at European level. At the same time, at national level, it is our duty to assist in preserving the political consensus achieved so far and for broad public support for holding a successful first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. All this is important to respond to the real needs of European citizens and to turn the challenges into opportunities for young people, which is our main priority, to continue the work on social cohesion, to develop the digital economy and skills that will preserve solidarity in Europe, to contribute to security and stability with a focus on the European perspective of the Western Balkans and Europe's infrastructure connectivity, to continue maintaining common European ideas in line with the Roman Declaration, which proved and confirmed the extreme importance of the principles of solidarity and cohesion that are leading to European integration. Thus, the priorities for the Presidency in Bulgaria's final Programme are a prerequisite for holding a successful Presidency, and in my opinion the success of the Presidency will be measured in how many of the sensitive files we will be able to finalise in our period and how we can the politicians and administration working for the Presidency to work together in order to achieve our goals. I therefore believe that with the permanent representation in Brussels during the period we will work well. Finally, I would like to point out that the aim of our joint efforts is to give the European Union a new impetus to an effective union in favour of democratic societies and democracy as a whole. I would like to say that putting forward direct national interests during our Presidency itself should not be done. These are some unwritten rules that I think we should follow. Thank you and good luck! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's thank Minister Pavlova and wish him a successful presidency. [[Applause from GERB. National Representative Yordan Tsonev wants the floor.]] Did you want a statement, Mr. Tsonev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u14	Yeah, but I wanted to take the floor after them.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u15	Of course, come in, Mr. Tsonev. You didn't raise your hand in time. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov wants the floor for procedure.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. What did you see wrong in the way you behaved?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Because today is an important day and we present the Bulgarian priorities during the Presidency... [[Strong noise in GERB.]] Colleagues, please listen to each other! Since these documents are most likely distributed in this House with your permission, I hope that we will not launch our Presidency in this way. I'll show you. [[He shows the President a brochure about the Presidency, which is facing pages.]] Because I haven't studied Arabic philology, I can't read backwards. I will ask Mrs. Pavlova to review all such documents. [[Show her the document. Minister Lilyana Pavlova takes over the brochure and gives it hers.]] Do not have to hand out such books to our official guests to read upside down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u17	I'm fine. I don't think it was right to say that from the stands. You could have told that to Mrs. Pavlova. I'm fine with my driver's license. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u18	Thank you, Madam President. I apologize if you didn't understand that I wanted the floor, as well as you, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u19	I apologize, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u20	Dear colleagues, we of the DPS take these documents seriously and the preparation of the Presidency. For this reason, we cannot fail to take this attitude again, although I will have to repeat most of the things I said on behalf of the parliamentary group in the discussion of the so-called.......... or what was the document? Was it a decision? Decision on the Presidency. Looks like we weren't clearly heard. So now I'm going to try again. Now we see priorities clearly written, even in color, with figures. In the diplomatic efforts made by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in particular our President Mr. Karadayi, we are doing our best to convince our liberal partners that Bulgaria can and will play a very strong role in most of these priorities. We're convinced of that. We are convinced that security and stability in a strong and unified Europe will not exist if we continue to tolerate nationalisms and radicalisms. And Europe shows it. In particular, Germany showed it today. Austria also showed it, although there are other expectations. All European countries show it, except Bulgaria. Can there be a European perspective and connectivity in the Western Balkans, since we know that the biggest scourge in the Western Balkans are ethno-religious differences, ethno-religious nationalism. We repeat this because we then had concrete proposals that we wanted to get into priorities, albeit nuanced, albeit not exactly as a priority, but as a means of implementing a particular priority. They weren't accepted. We continue to argue that the stability of the Western Balkans depends on a number of things, depending on whether the negotiation process with the Republic of Turkey will continue the economic, political and military colossus, a giant in the Balkans. Without stability there and without attracting this country into the process, regardless of the processes that are taking place there, or despite, or because such processes are taking place, we cannot expect stability in the Balkans because the Balkans represent an ethnic color carpet. This fact must be taken into account. The whole story is full of terrifying tragedies on such a basis. We strongly support this priority. We believe that Bulgaria only has the key to solving this priority and the key is the Bulgarian ethnic model. The Bulgarian ethnic model is very strong and up-to-date today, because it foresees that this is not exactly what the integration of minorities is, but real integration of minorities; not a request of autonomies, what is happening in the west of us, but real integration of minorities. Don't be ashamed to highlight this conventional Bulgarian political product just because it is authored by Dr. Ahmed Dogan and the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. The value of the whole Bulgarian society is and all parties are related to the Bulgarian ethnic model, Madam Minister. Therefore, this should have been entered here and used in this European Presidency. I would say again: if it was not for the participation of the nationalists, I am convinced that all these things would have been adopted and legislation would not have been introduced, which will in no way help stability either in the country or in the Balkans or in Europe. The last example is from last week's exercise of religious qualifications in front of a crime. In the legislative norms, religious ethnic qualifications cannot be put before a crime! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Another attitude? In the manner of conduct, please, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u22	Thank you, Madam President. [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] On your behalf, if you could thank Mr. Tsvetanov for the big grade he gave me. I would like to clarify one question through you, Madam President. Forgive me, the ignorant one in this regard. Perhaps Mrs. Pavlova will answer that question. On one of the pages we read...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u23	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u24	Yes, in the manner of conducting.. to provide conditions for the answer to this question, i.e. to lead to an answer. We have accompanying persons from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have officers for embassies accredited in Bulgaria. I would like, if we may, to have an answer to this question perhaps through you, Madam President: what are these officers from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? I don't understand it simply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u25	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Here you go, Mrs. Pavlova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Velkov, this is a terminology that is used, a literal translation from standard standards. The term we use in English is the one that uses every Presidency. In Bulgarian, Lisazon an office manager shall mean diplomatic officers, intern diplomats, junior diplomats from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of each of the countries which, during each rotating Presidency, accompany high-level delegates, the prime minister or minister concerned, or head of the delegation of each State. It's just a literal translation. Don't look for anything where it's not there.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u27	Mr. Petrov, come in for treatment. [[Radio, noise.]] Colleagues, please take your seats! If we could just be a little quieter! If anyone's not interested in the subject, let's wait on the sidelines. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u28	Thank you, Madam President. I have already heard, I have come to my ears with comments that this was an absolutely boring discussion that was held in this National Assembly. I believe that we need to treat our future Presidency with sufficient seriousness. On my behalf and on behalf of my fellow Members, I would like to highly appreciate the work of Mrs. Pavlova, the Committee on Foreign Policy, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, which contributed to a balanced, good programme which, I suppose, will raise Bulgaria's authority to a new level during this Presidency. I would like to appeal to fellow Members who, of course, because they are in another direction, in other sectors, to pay enough attention to this programme, because it is indeed a document, a guide that will give many of us opportunities to truly understand the policies that the European Union is leading. In this regard, I would like to say that we, too, of the United Patriarchs, will not enter the pub, so to speak, disputes offered to us by the religious party DPS because it is not good for the European Union. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev. Resurrection, noise.]] It is religious, of course, not ethnic, because there are different ethnicities: there are Gypsies, Turks, there are others. However, they are primarily linked to the religious moment. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u29	Mr. Petrov, do not engage in dialogue with the House! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u30	Mr. Stoynev! Isn't that right, Mr. Stoinev? I'm mentioning your name.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u31	Don't test Mr. Stoinev. Keep up the good work.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u32	In this regard, I would particularly like to highlight the turn made by Mrs. Pavlova on priorities. If you remember, Mrs. Denitsa, I keep forgetting the family, Denitsa, who was oriented towards global Asian-Pacific problems. [[Radio, laughter.]] Now we have a turn to our neighbours, to the Balkans, and it has been done very professionally. For a few months... [[Heckling]] In the European Union they did not want to hear about this at the beginning, if you remember. We managed to impose it and this is very important for our Bulgarian interests. Here I would like to mention something that, it seems, my colleagues at the DPS can't understand it. It seems they only read these parts of European documents that are related to some kind of collection of money, to some sort of thing. They do not read that Europe, as a design by the two great englishmen, was designed as an organization of nations. There can't be nationalists in the organization of nations. Can you imagine?! And they're branded as bad. [[Radio, laughter.]] Our nationalist Vassil Levski was a bad thing, Hristo Botev the nationalist who declared himself a nationalist was a bad thing. At all, listening to this from the mouth of Mr. Tsonev, who dare not appear in Burgas, I simply cannot understand what this is about, but whatever. [[Radio.]] We will make a special contribution to the eradication of the ethno-mafia structure in Bulgaria and we will make our contribution and our experience in this respect in the other Balkan countries, because there can also be such ethno-religious and mafia structures to threaten peace and stability in the Balkans. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] The BSP colleagues want it and it's very funny to them. They seem to feel that this applies to them, too, but I didn't say that you did, did I? [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're not a mob structure, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u33	The weather, Mr. Petrov. [[Radio, noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u34	Something important I'd like to highlight. Unity makes power! We are precisely for the unification of the Bulgarian political parties to make a strong presidency. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria: Bravo!) Applause. Revelations: More, more!)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. You're welcome, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u36	I am aware, Madam President, that this type of babble must be left without comment. I was going to leave him, but there's no way I could pass up qualifications for my party as a religious party. The DPS is made up of people who believe in God, but everyone believes in their religion. I'm a Christian and I'm a doctor of Christian theology, honored Mr. Petrov. And I'm vice-president of the DPS parliamentary group. My colleague Halil Letifov is a Muslim and vice-chairman of the parliamentary group, so your qualifications are inaccurate. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a Bulgarian political party like everyone else, not a religious organization, or an ethnic organization. That's good to know, so you don't get ridiculous, because you caused laughter in this room. Otherwise, for your comfort to say: I would love to go every month, at least once a month in Burgas with friends and relatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Let us thank Minister Pavlova for the second time and wish him well in the upcoming Presidency. We continue with the item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE CORRUPTION AND FOR THE RECURRENCE OF THE DEFINITELY ACCOMPLISHED AND MUTUALITY.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In yesterday's debate on a second vote, Article 2 was voted on. 13. Art. 14 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: para 14 is created. 4. The Secretary-General of the Commission shall assist the President in the implementation of the administrative management of the administration. A Bulgarian citizen who has legal and economic education and has at least 10 years of professional experience in anti-corruption activities and activities related to the withdrawal of assets acquired from criminal or illegal activities, of which at least 5 years of office. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u39	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Ivanov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 119 MPs: 35 against 48, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 14 which the Commission supports. Vote 124 MPs: 90, against 32, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u40	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Madame Minister! According to the text of the importer for art. 15 there is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission under the heading. 2 and c. 1 we have noted that it has been withdrawn, but I note in view of Mr Hamid's clarification that it has not been accepted, so I will read both points: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. Two out. (in the event of the removal of Chapter 9) 2. Alinea 6 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and c. 1 is withdrawn. Proposal from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, para. 7 at the beginning shall be added to the Secretary-General, after which a comma shall be placed and the main letter in the word "inspectors" shall be removed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u41	Statements? [[Noise in the room, conversation between MPs.]] Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall and let's have some order and quiet. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! In the debate that started yesterday, we questioned whether this new body is anti-corruption, whether it is independent. It's time. 15 to show us that he will not be united as he is represented in the motives of the bill. Please note, ladies and gentlemen, that three types of people working in this new service are envisaged, one will be inspectors and other civil servants under the Civil Service Act; another will be civil servants who will work on Chapter 9 special, relating to operational and search activities, and the third are persons working in employment, i.e. a contract of employment. What exactly is this about? The first... [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] They're not everywhere, Admiral. You and yesterday were very actively involved in the debate, but, with all due respect, I ask you to participate in the debate from the stands. What's this about? It will be the inspectors and civil servants who are currently working in the Commission for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and in the Commission for the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest, the Court of Auditors. People on t. 2 however, the so-called new employees under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2. These are the employees of the Special Directorate of the National Security Agency, who are to be flown into it. The third are persons of employment. Why is this important, and why is it not the same as in other departments? Because of the employees under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2, the current staff of the SANS, given the radical difference in manners and the way they work and what they will do, provides for a whole new status in this law. They will work under a common hat with their other colleagues, but will be treated differently both in terms of their status and, naturally, in terms of their tasks. You yourselves understand the relationship between the employees of this agency. But even that's not so important. More importantly, this suggests and proves once again that we actually have different organs that, although they will be placed under a hat, each will dig in his own track. And as we will see in the powers of the Commission, they will not be detected even in the exercise of their powers. When we come to Chapter 9 and the next, you will see that there is written entirely and only what and how these special employees under art are treated. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2. That's not in the other institutions, with all due respect. In the other institutions there are under the Law on Public Staff and Employment. In the same institution to have civil servants treated in a very different way, I am at least not familiar with such precedent.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. [[Noise in the room, conversation between MPs.]] Colleagues, once again I ask you to take your seats in this Chamber. Are there any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the Commission of the Parliamentary Representative Karadayi and a group of MPs. [[People's representatives signal that they have a problem with voting boards.]] Please help your colleagues vote. There's a problem with the consoles. I'll wait. Abort the vote and announce the result. They voted 121 MPs: 11 against 55, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 122 MPs: 21, against 58, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 15 which is supported by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 98 against 26 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u44	Under art. 16 has a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 16 para. Two out. (in the event of Chapter 9 dropping out) The proposal is not supported. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u45	Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u46	Madam President, I promise I will be brief and I will only refer to the text. I would like to draw attention to the following. The Commission's bodies are directors of territorial directorates and, for the second time, in their context, the Commission's authority will also be the director of this Service Directorate. I just want to say that we will be talking soon about the use of special intelligence resources. You should know that an applicant for these special intelligence means will not be the Commission or its chairman, but the Director of the Directorate.... only as an element once again how we do service in the service. But I'd like to take a stand on para. 3. Yesterday, after adopting a proposal from MPs, the internship required for the President and Commissioner has become five years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u47	Only for a member, for a chair, no!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u48	And for the chairman, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u49	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u50	Let's check that information anyway. Now it is also bet that the directors of territorial directorates will have five years of internship, which is equalizing this requirement. However, in fact, territorial directors will be required more, as members of the Commission are not required to specialize in service, legal and economic, but a general professional experience. I think it should be borne in mind, and I think yesterday we made the President of the Commission a five-year internship. Please check.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u52	Since Mr. Zarkov insists we check it out, it's art. 8, para. Three and four. The corrections concern a Vice-President and a Member of the Commission. We have not amended the requirements with regard to the President of the Commission. With regard to your reasoning that we have a narrower strip of requirements for the directors, this is somewhat justified because the directors carry out a specific professional and administrative activity, while the member has broad powers as a Commissioner. I don't see why we have to bring that debate back to whether members should only be lawyers and economists or should we have the opportunity for a wider selection of better selections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I don't see anyone wishing for any other lines. Would you do a douche bag, Mr. Zarkov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u54	Madam President, I'm using the backrest to thank you for this inspection. You're right, we've changed the requirements of the vice-presidents. That is true, but does not change the substance of my statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u55	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Anyone else who wants to make a statement? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: 12, against 67, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 16, which the Commission supports. Vote 113 MPs: 98 against 14, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Before you continue, Mr. Kirilov, let's congratulate our guests from the city. Targovishte. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u56	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Guests from Targovishte, Dear Members! Article 17 shall be the text of an importer. There is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Seventeenth para. Three out. (in the event of Chapter 9 dropping out) The proposal is not supported. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u57	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u58	Thank you, Madam President. In very short terms................................................................................ 17 is described as the National Assembly exercising control in para. 1 on the Commission's activities, below the specialised Commission. In practice, this text, given the manner of appointment and the possibility of an exemption that you voted on yesterday, is really meaningless because, given the way of appointment by the majority, both the President and the Vice-Presidents. The possibility for this President and Vice-Presidents to be released, if the majority, I repeat, in this National Assembly or in the next, to consider that he has not done his duties well enough, he will simply be released. What greater control than this possibility?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u59	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u60	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I replicate because this is another absurd statement that colleagues in the opposition bring to your attention. We clarified, including yesterday, that, on the grounds of the exemption, that also 1/5, Member Popov, MPs may ask for the early release of a Commissioner, which means that the opposition can at any time request, rudely speaking, the head of each Member, when collecting 48 signatures. I believe that this is extremely democratic and this is not a tool for the government alone, it is an instrument in favour of parliamentary control and it is on an equal footing and basis, and it is the same ground.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u62	Dear Mr. Popov, I replicate you because they could not understand the difference between the control you are talking about and the control contained in the text. They still believe that there will be a political body in which there will be a fight between the opposition and the leaders, and do not understand that this way of recall will force the President before any action, before making sure that there is an appropriate majority in the National Assembly. This Commission is not a parliament but an administrative body for implementing a law. That difference you couldn't explain.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Popov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u64	Thank you. My hole is that, in practice, my colleague Kirilov confirmed the thesis that had just been expressed by colleague Zarkov. Indeed, control will only be carried out on the basis of political objectives and appropriateness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 113 MPs: 113, against 63, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 17, which the Commission supports. They voted 111 MPs: 92 against 16, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u66	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u67	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u68	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, Madam Minister! I want to take a position on art. 20, which explicitly states that the Commission's authorities are not responsible for the actions they take, unless they constitute a common crime. This creates a prerequisite for the essential possibility that the Law presupposes to affect citizens' rights and legitimate interests when initiating checks, to suffer such damage because not always harmful action is a crime. Ruining a career will not allow the individual's political, professional or good name, although after a year and a half, to be acquitted to be held liable for these damages by the individual who caused them. Of course the person will have the opportunity to seek that responsibility, but by whom? Again, from our country. I oppose the principle introduced in art. 20, under such broad competence of the Commission, on such a broad personal basis of the Law, we are to exempt persons from liability for damages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u70	Thank you, Madam President. In full solidarity with colleague Milkov, I express such an opinion. Furthermore, according to the provision that will be voted on all information that has become known to them, it is also classified information, i.e. not even of the type of information, because it is written here:... on the occasion of their duties........................................................................................................................................ On the occasion of the performance of their duties it may be any kind of information, including which is not classified, but classifying this information will not allow for better control over the exercise of their activities. At the same time, they would not be liable, but would normally be liable under the State's liability law for damage caused to citizens by its employees and bodies. There is such a Law and this was the most normal one because a number of bodies, including in the judiciary, including the executive, correspond precisely to this Law. Why should these ladies and gentlemen, future here who will participate in this Commission, not be responsible for their actions, especially given their powers and the hypothetical, but great opportunity and ugliness, they really violate the legal rights and interests of Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u71	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u72	That was a statement. We registered it as a line? Okay, statement. Change it to speech. Is there a line on Mr. Popov's statement? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I vote on Articles 18, 19, 20 and 21, which the Commission supports. 110 MPs voted: 84, against 22, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u73	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Article 22 shall be the text of an importer. There is a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) An internship of the members of the Commission and of the directors and inspectors in the directorates, as well as of the persons in the administration holding a position for which higher legal education and legal capacity is required, shall be respected for legal internship. (2) The internship of the persons under para. 1 holding a post requiring higher economic education shall be regarded as an internship in the speciality of the public sector. (3) The work of the members of the Commission and of the bodies referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and 2 shall be regarded as the first category. (4) In the performance of his duties, the bodies referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 and 2 travel free of charge in public public transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u74	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u75	Thank you, Madam President. A very brief statement, even ridiculous to me, is the proposal in the new para. 4 that: in the performance of their duties the authorities travelled free of charge in urban transport. Colleagues, how do we determine when they are performing their duties and when they are not? Perhaps the controller will ask them, "Are you going to work for what reason?" to ask them for the map to travel free of charge in the city transport? You'd better remove this: in the performance of your duties. Simply: the bodies under art. 16 travel free of charge in public and urban transport. This Law becomes a mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u76	- What's the line? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer and the proposed version of art. 22. 110 MPs voted: 86, against 21, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Article 23 shall be the text of an importer. There is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Commission's structure and organisation shall be governed by rules adopted by the National Assembly. 2. Alinea 2 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u78	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first of all, the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 101 MPs: 10, against 58, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 23, which the Commission supports. Voted 103 MPs: 87, Against 11, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u79	Dear Madam President, I ask for a procedural proposal to extend the legislative activity in this sitting by half an hour to 11.00.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure. They voted 102 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u81	The Commission's involvement with other state authorities and international cooperation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 3 and Article 3 supported by the Commission. 24, which the Commission supports. They voted 105 MPs: 87, against 16, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u83	Article 25 supposed text of an importer. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments shall be made: 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the decrees establishing or refusing to initiate pre-trial proceedings; 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." the orders by which pre-trial proceedings are suspended or terminated; 3. Point 3 shall be deleted and the following shall be renumbered. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u84	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 109 MPs: 14 against 54, abstentioned 41. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 25, which the Commission supports. They voted 106 MPs: 84, against 8, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u85	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. Article 27 supposed text of an importer. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 t. 4 and 5 drop out at the drop of Chapter Nine. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u86	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u87	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! We do not agree with the way in which the Commission's interaction with and not only with the other state authorities is codified. What do we mean? With regard to interaction with other state authorities, it is important to decide on the extent to which the establishment of mechanisms and rules of interaction should be provided for and regulated by joint instructions and not at the legal level, given that such instructions and their provisions will be able to affect citizens' rights. In this regard, Article 3 (1) (b) of the Code shall apply. 26 of the Bill mixes two basic principles and opens a door to significantly circumvent the envisaged guarantees for natural and legal persons. Article 26 speaks of the assistance of traders, natural and legal persons, but if information is required by natural and legal persons, it is essentially a testimony and should be otherwise settled and secured with the relevant guarantees and grounds for refusal, as done in the Civil Procedure Code or in the Criminal Procedure Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Replies to Mr. Baychev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs in art. 27. They voted 108 MPs: 9 against 46, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 26, 27, 28 and 29, supported by the Commission. Voted 101 MPs: 83, against 5, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u89	"Chapter 4" Prevention of Corruption. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31. Art. 32 supposed text of the importer. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1 C. 1 t. Seven out. 2. In para. 2 after the words the authorities responsible shall be added by the executive authority. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32. Article 33 supposed text of an importer. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 33, p. 2 the words under the application of the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u90	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, we are looking at the chapter, one of the four parts of this law, which has so far been done by the Center for Countering and Prevention of Corruption, better known as BORKOR. I will take only the text of art. 32, p. 1.. text, which existed until now and which rather did not work. It is said that any bill drawn up by the executive bodies is agreed on the existence of corruption risk. A few questions are raised in relation to this article. Firstly, why are only the legislative projects drawn up by the executive bodies co-ordinated? If legislative projects are to be coordinated in advance, let those of the Members of the National Assembly be coordinated and the proposals made between first and second readings, which often hide precisely lobbying interests. Secondly, words matter, especially when they are written in a bill. It should mean that if a corruption risk is identified, this bill should not see the light of day. The facts are, of course, quite different, because constitutionally neither the executive power nor the legislative initiative of the MPs can be predestined by ex ante control, whatever it was. Therefore, the word "coordinates" does not correspond to the reality sought by this text, and the practice shows that the opinions that have been issued so far by the Centre and will now be published in the Commission are rarely discussed and disclosed. They are opinions which all institutions and stakeholders should be able to give during the discussion of a bill. This important preventive activity is actually formalized in one text. It has existed so far, will still exist on a legal level, but its practical dimension is close or at least branches to zero. I also draw attention to the fact that both BORKOR and this Commission must carry out prevention, mainly by issuing preliminary reports, so that we are aware when we vote on the relevant texts, what it is about. However, the practice has shown that the reports of BORKOR have so far been neglected, to put it mildly, especially by the authorities to which special recommendations are directed. I would like to remind you that in January this year a difficult report on the general state of corruption policies in Bulgaria came out, about the way the Council of Ministers issued strategies that contradict each other and a report which found that there was no political will to fight corruption. This report was not even discussed, let alone any concrete action and measures by the government or by this House. Finally, I would like to say that prevention of corruption is important, no doubt. It's good to have it, but the fact that it's written in law isn't enough. It is necessary to bring this law into some concrete action.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, dear Mr. Zarkov! It is absolutely unacceptable, from a constitutional point of view, and given the independence of the MPs in their activities, that someone should tell them, even more so, to coordinate their activities with an anti-corruption body. And that is why our amendment to the second paragraph of art. 32, because, together with the Parliament and the Members of the National Assembly, which cannot be referred to, art. 32 includes the bodies of the judiciary. It is absolutely unacceptable for someone to indicate and propose and agree something in the judiciary, so we have made these proposals in the second paragraph of Article 2. 32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u94	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr Hamid, by accepting the reply, I simply wish to clarify that the legislative initiative of the MPs is constitutionally no different from the legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers...........................................what is not allowed against us................... The truth is that the word "coordinates" is not only inappropriate, but it simply does not meet the realities. The idea of the importer, as it has been in the decree so far, is that, in advance, as a prevention measure, this centre so far, and now the Commission, must be addressed in order to give an opinion on the extent to which a particular bill would contain corruption risks or risks of abuse, or there is some kind of lobbying element. This is not a bad thing to do, but, of course, it does not bind to anything that, under the Constitution, has the right to legislative initiative, whether it be a member of parliament or the Council of Ministers. What it should have an impact on is that this opinion is made public, and when this initiative is nevertheless implemented, despite it, the importer concerned bears his political responsibility, here, in front of the Chamber. But the way it's written, it's different. It agrees that it must have the corresponding signature or the corresponding approval measure in order to leave. Of course, this cannot and will not be so, but in this Law everything is so. It says a lot of things that don't mean anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We shall vote on the proposal under art. 32 of MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 9 against 43 abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the next proposal to art. 33 by MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 88 MPs: 8 against 30, abstention 50. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 4 and the text of art. 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, which are supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 76 against 2, abstention 17. The proposals are accepted. Please present the rest of the text, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u97	According to Chapter Five "Declarations." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five. Section I The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any speeches all over the Section?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u99	I take the floor to make a proposal for editing in respect of art. 35, para. The finale of para. 5 is the finale of para. 5, where the words are in accordance with the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Signature. I propose to replace the words.....................................................................................)...................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of Chapter 5 as the name of the Chapter 35 with the editing of para. 5 represented by Mr. Kirilov, art. Art. 36, Art. Art. 37, Art. Art. 38, Art. Art. 39 and Art. 40, and the Commission supports the text of the importer for the listed Articles of Section I of Chapter Five. I put to the vote the new version of para. Art. 5 of art. 35. They voted 93 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the texts listed for the title of Chapter Five, the name of Section I and the texts of Articles 35 to 40, including Section I. Vote 85 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u101	Section II The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42. Section III "Inspection of declarations and property status'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. Chapter six "Signatures." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u102	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Section II, the text of the importer for the name of Section III, the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 6a and the texts of Articles 41 to 48 inclusive. Everyone is supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: 87, against 3, abstention 13. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u103	Chapter "Secretary of the issuing person." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 7. Under art. 49 The text of the importer and proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov and Yavor Notev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, The other paragraphs shall be renumbered. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Maria Ilieva. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 1 words on this basis only shall be replaced by the words "if the signal has been valid'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u104	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u105	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! We absolutely do not accept the unconditional discharge of the sender of an unjustified signal under this law. That provision, in our view, grossly infringes the right of defence of those against whom an alert has been issued, which has subsequently proved unfounded. In such cases, those persons will not be able to assume the responsibility of the alerter and to protect their rights and legitimate interests. This is unacceptable in a rule of law which the Republic of Bulgaria claims to be. We believe that the Law provides enough other options to protect the senders of signals, and this is an excessive measure to achieve the objectives set by the Bill, and therefore we propose the removal of para. 1. Indeed, this proposal may seem radical to you, but we believe that the damage that can be done by Al. 1 in their current version, are too big to take the risk of remaining in this version. I can declare that if we do not support our motion to drop out, we will support the other proposal, which is to add unfounded signals as an opportunity and option in which the alerter is responsible. In practice, the stay of the importer's text in this form risks indeed a very serious violation of the rights and legitimate interests of any person who falls within the scope of this law, who holds a senior state or senior public office, and who will be virtually left without protection in the case where the alert has proved unfounded. We protect in many other ways the senders of the signal are not leaking information. There are administrative criminal provisions provided for in cases where a Member of the Commission or an official of the Commission has submitted information on the alert. But in practice, there is no way to limit the sender itself to release information about this signal, to publish this signal publicly in the media and in practice until the verification is completed, and even if it turns out that the signal is unfounded, in relation to this person to run a negative media campaign in society, to undermine its good name, prestige, honor and dignity, which he cannot protect with this text of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u106	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines to Mr. Mitev's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u107	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Minister! In previous versions of this law, attention was paid to the anonymous signal and it was the only one spoken of. Now we seem to be focusing our attention on this text. First of all, I would like to remind you that, even in the principle of the Law, the protection of whistleblowers is presented as one of the fundamental principles of the entire Law. Secondly, what I cannot understand and appeal to someone to explain to me is whether they will give a signal, whether the person will be protected is one thing, but what will this institution do with this signal? What is the interest of a citizen to signal this particular institution with something? A citizen can signal because he has doubts that someone has been acting corruptly. Only it's a suspicion of committing some kind of crime. If the citizen has such doubt, he will turn to an authority that can investigate him, and will very quickly understand that this committee is not such an authority. The only thing that this commission can do with the signal, if it wants to actually be checked and developed, is to entrust it to its special operations directorate, which will do some checking. But when she does that check, she will be faced with the following dilemma. If the alert is confirmed, it will have to send it to the prosecutor's office, which is an investigative authority, which, however, will not be able to benefit from these collected data, as they will have no evidence value in criminal proceedings and will assign it for a second inspection to one of the authorities authorised to carry out such data under another law. Or, as the absurdity of this situation will become very clear very quickly, the only thing this committee will do is forward the signal of competence. This also really raises the question of protection, since, obviously, this committee has nothing to do with the relevant signal, it by law and order of procedure, the only thing that can happen is either forward it or possibly abuse the relevant information in any way. There's a lot of talk about damage. Theoretically speaking, the signal itself does no harm. It will result in damage from the actions of the authority that has been alerted, and if this signal, which does not contain any sensitive information and nevertheless works and does, it simply exceeds its authority. But all this is a debate that can be very difficult to understand and very difficult to explain, but this applies not to this text that focuses your attention, but to the whole Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u108	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines to Mr. Zarkov's statement? Please come in, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u109	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Zarkov, I do not agree with what you have touched on in the final statement that the damage will only result from the actions of the state authority. I would not say that they would result from the actions of the state authority. It will effectively exercise its powers by law to carry out the verification and, as a result of this verification, it will establish that the signal is unfounded. The damage will result from an unholy act and behavior of the signaler himself, which, if it is intended to undermine, denigrate the good name, honor and dignity of a person, will announce this signal through the media. From then on, it will come to the harmful result, which, since this signal sender is not responsible for any liability of any kind, shall not be liable for the liability under art. 45 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, nor any other, since the text of para. 1 of art. 49 of the Bill is imperative, hence there is no way for this person to defend himself. In practice, we violate its fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution, as well as in civil law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u110	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u111	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Zarkov, you are right about your last statement, as well as in the rest of your statement, that this is practically the whole Law. You have failed to say that the texts that we have already voted on, namely that the members of this committee bear no responsibility whatsoever for the actions they have done, even under the Law of Harms caused to the citizens of the State, are perfectly linked to this text, that in practice the signaler is not responsible, no matter what the signal is, whether it is a report or not. From this point of view, indeed, the whole Law is in this area in which you have described, I have simply pointed out to you that the previous texts on which we were opposed concern this particular area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u112	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the duvet, Mr. Zarkov. You're giving her up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u113	I'm quitting, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u114	I'm quitting, too.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u115	And you're giving up. Was there another statement? Mr. Ivanov! I won't. We are putting an end to the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Hristian Mitev, Boris Yachev, Emil Dimitrov, Yavor Notev, the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 101 MPs: for 73, against 7, abstention 21. The offer is accepted. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u116	Revoting!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u117	Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u118	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a re-voting procedure - not all of my fellow Members have been able to vote. I just want to point out that of all the proposals this is the most radical for dropping the entire para. 1. I just want to say with one sentence that we will definitely continue to support the text of an importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Revoting procedure. They voted 115 MPs: for 70, against 4, abstention 41. The offer is accepted. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria "Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, Bravo, ……]] I vote on the proposal by MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs, the Commission does not support the proposal... Procedure Mr. Kirilov, this completely changes the text of art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u120	My fellow Members, that is why I warned you in the revoting. Given that you have supported the dropout of the entire paragraph, there is no longer any point in voting on the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and there is no way to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u121	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Either way, we're running out of time. We've got a few more minutes. We will continue with the vote on the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 7 and Article 7. 49 with the adopted proposal and the correction in the text by the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. They voted 111 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. By considering and voting at second reading of the bill we will continue at the next sitting. At 11.00 we continue the discussions on the questioning of the MP Rumen Gechev to Minister Vladislav Goranov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u122	We continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions for the period from 8 December 2017 to 14 December 2017 by MP Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, on the future development of the Ministry of Interior Academy. The reply should be made in plenary on 12 January 2018. Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from MP Hamid Hamid; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Imrem Mehmedova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 11 questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Violeta Zheleva and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MP Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on two questions from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov. Colleagues, we are moving on to the debate procedure. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! Madam President, I use the right of procedure to object in the way we conduct parliamentary control. Personally, I already have a problem with you returning a second question we are asking to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please tell me how to make sure the Prime Minister comes here and answers questions. You have returned my question at the moment, arguing that he is in charge of matters concerning the government's activities. I've made an objection to you. My request is to be examined by the Conference of Presidents, as in my opposition I have given an order to the Prime Minister on the basis of art. 108 of the Constitution, where the functions and coordination of the activities of the Ministry of Finance, the State Agency of Intelligence and the State Agency of National Security are directly in the responsibility of the Prime Minister, under his report. I believe that the questions we are asking are directly and solely the Prime Minister and are of his competence. Please don't hide Mr. Borisov! That way you don't do him any favors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u124	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Your question will be answered to the Conference of Presidents. The question is asked to a certain agency and is a report that has been received by the Prime Minister and many reports have been received by the Prime Minister. So your question must be relevant to the relevant minister, who is responsible for this issue, is also heard by the Attorney General. Here you are, Mr. Genov, a statement from a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u125	Madam President, honourable Members! There is something that we must recognise to the ruling political party GERB. It is their stubbornness to work so hard to impose and postpone policies that periodically bring out protesting people on streets and squares. Today, we are witnessing another such fair protest - people from different parts of the country protest because of their pre-Christmas news about how the water they drink and use in their home will become more salty - not at a plus, of course, but at a cost that they are forced to pay, without explaining what is fair. With their inherent hubris, with which yesterday confirmed cut access to treatment for needy patients, the government will now also deal with the protests against water appreciation. They will pretend that with these protests dew is dewing them, they will find convenient versions of conspiracies of the opposition and will continue to stack dithirams for the bright future. It is true that the news of the first serious appreciation of water is not from yesterday and, if we have news, it is not good because it is only the first in a series of inevitable next promotions. No one of the authorities has considered it necessary to explain and defend to the Bulgarian citizens why this is being done until now or from now on. People will eventually find out, and some might accept it, some might not accept it. The truth is that all consumers will have to accept unalternatively how their monthly spending, the most needed resource in everyday life, will become more expensive. It turns out that it is no one's commitment to clarify available and patiently why it is done, to prove how fair it is and how the state has done everything necessary and ultimately cannot without an increase in price. Because these governors, from the last two mandates, were somewhere supposed to be a serious reform in the water sector, just not for real and quality change. Both water companies themselves and consumers suffer from this. What's going on in the country? Gentlemen ruling, today angry people are protesting because they are startled at how they will deal with the cost of expensive water. The water sector has been pressed against the wall for a long time, is stuck with the commitment of at least 12 billion investments, which should occur according to all written strategies for the development of the water sector. But neither the protesters will remember, nor the water operators will be comfortable to undertake, how much over 100 million, smashed the state in various water reform offices, without effect and responsibility for unthinking actions. First, 51 were regional plans. Then they remembered that they didn't work because 28 areas had to be administrative. This was spent another 60 million in regional pre-investment studies and over 100 million were written in previous years for writing strategic documents. At the same time, neither then nor today are coming down from the news of waterlessness and water regime in the summer months, of missing sewers and large cities. The unargumented flow of millions for writing, recreating, copying and cutting strategies has also not stopped. The promises and spells of the cabinet Borisov 2 how the reform of the sector will end soon and will be punished anyone who sabotages it would probably do the job in some market or in some corner rather than the absorption and lag of the funds under the Operational Programme. We are now forced to accept, as a fact, the Commission's position on energy and water regulation how the increase in water prices was not economically justified or otherwise. Let us draw before the clamp the European directives for strategies in the sector, see with the eyes of the ordinary Bulgarian how this is adopted. Come out today to the protesters, gentlemen in charge, we're there! Either go to any urban or rural community center on a date, and see if people believe you. How many of them have you managed to convince correctly and in time that the increased water price now and after a time they pay is sufficiently justified? Now we're looking for someone to remember: how many years ago was the thesis of introducing social tolerance at the cost of water? If this were done in time, there wouldn't be huge uncollected claims from customers, and water operators would be wondering what to swallow their losses with. It is true that quality service costs money and that must be clear. However, the unreformed and dramatically underfunded water service operators have no other chance but to transfer to their customers the obligation to be investors in these billions without guarantee of when exactly a quality service will be available, and guarantee that customers pay exactly what they receive. Without guarantee when water reform will reach those small settlements that today protest, which the state has abandoned since 2009, because those European investments that water strategies mean and raise the cost of water have no intention of entering these settlements. We ask: Is an answer found for these people of the Bulgarian municipalities who had the courage to dare to implement projects in the water sector, but are forced to save themselves with extremely impossible financial corrections, the people who do not understand and do not accept the increased cost of water? Ladies and gentlemen, this is all going to happen! The reform in the water sector will happen. It will happen because the right to access clean drinking water is a recognised right of the UN, and in our country the government still thinks that water is just a Bulgarian song of Eurovision. [[Heckling]] Have courage, admit your mistakes, gather courage and understand: if you want no new protests and people to become responsible paying agents of the good service, take immediate action! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. We continue with the debates on the questioning of the MP Rumen Gechev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on government debt. The request of the MP Rumen Gechev was answered at the meeting on 8 December 2017, Friday. At the same meeting, 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning together with the Project for a solution. The debates are scheduled for this parliamentary control. The proposal for the debate on the inquiry and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 8 December 2017, Friday. A second draft was introduced for a decision by the MP from the political party GERB parliamentary group on 14 December 2017, Thursday, and sent the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Two projects have been tabled to be voted on. The first draft for a decision was submitted by 62 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group (BSP), No 754-00-134, from 8 December 2017, and the draft decision submitted by the MP from the parliamentary group of the party GERB, No 754-02-111, from 14 December 2017. Colleagues, I give the floor to the importers for this debate within 10 minutes to state their reasons. Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u127	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Goranov, honourable colleagues! At the very beginning, I want to make the following arrangement. By formal indicators, the state of Bulgaria's public debt, compared to other countries, looks good. Looks good and the state of the budget deficit. The Bulgarian state is able to serve the public debt at the moment, even with increasing pressure on the budget to 2022, with some difficulties, but the state has no problem serving this debt. From this point of view, we want to pay less attention to the current situation than to the policies that are being carried out and to the links of these superficially good indicators with the development of the Bulgarian economy, which is more important. The second agreement that we need to make is that the European Union's debt does not exceed 60% of gross domestic product, the budget deficit to move up to 3% of gross domestic product, interest rates respectively, inflation to move according to Europe's norms. We not only are not attacking these norms, but we want them to be respected and we demand that they be respected. What are our serious remarks and recommendations regarding the government's debt policy, the budget deficit, the fiscal reserve and the relationship with economic policy, respectively? Five groups of problems, in short. One. However, the statement of the Ministry of Finance that we have an ongoing surplus in the budget is false and misleading because, honourable Members, this year the government will not spend nearly 2 billion for a second time. And 300 million. BGN for capital expenditure will not spend 1 billion. 300 million. lv. for armed forces of the Air Force and the Navy of Bulgaria. It seems quite strange that the claim of an excess of a billion and something, given that the Budget Act for 2017 has not been implemented and these costs have not been made, as a result of which the Bulgarian economy, small and medium-sized companies, Bulgarian consumers are directly or indirectly deprived of a huge resource. The second group of problems. In fact, for a whole year the Ministry of Finance holds as an unregulated budget reserve almost four billion leva in elementary accounts. We must maintain under Law four, four and a half billion leva fiscal reserve. Mr. Goranov, we support 12, 13, 11.5 billion. lv. It's a fiscal reserve. To open a clamp. Since they are indirectly linked, even with direct links, the currency reserve of the country lv. frozen, another 7 billion. lv. frozen and in what are these funds frozen? They're frozen in government securities, as we said, first-class, to foreign countries. While developed countries and our partners from Europe for decades maintain budget deficits up to three and over three percent, poor Bulgaria shrinks the budget deficits to zero and finances the government securities of other countries and peoples, against which they pay us negative interest at the moment, and from the reserves we get nothing. So we cannot agree that the Ministry of Finance will be in luxury and tens of billions will be set aside under hidden reserves of unspent capital expenditure and other expenses, double and triple reserves, and a fiscal reserve, and a currency reserve, as a result of which Bulgaria loses not so much revenue in the budget this is the smallest side of the issue, most importantly we finance foreign budgets and deprive the Bulgarian economy of fresh economic resources. Next, budget policy has absolutely no relation to the country's economic development. Tell me, colleagues, where in the Law on Budgets of the last years or in the budget forecast says that this and this fiscal or budgetary policy is related to this and this sectoral policy of the Bulgarian government? Do we distinguish between processing raw materials or producing high technological products? Is there a difference between imports of equipment or imports of luxury goods other than excise duty? Is there a differentiated budget and fiscal policy that is linked to any government objectives for the development of Bulgaria's economy that will result in any concrete results? In addition, reporting excellent results to Europe does not make any sense to countries such as France, Italy, Poland, Hungary, Czech Republic. What are we saying? See, you maintain deficits more than minus three percent, most of them. Your debt is 80. 90%. Oh, but you're a backward country! Look what we are doing in Bulgaria! Ninety-nine percent of the world's countries maintain deficits, explained theoretically and practically below 3%, so it will also happen with regard to government debt. Furthermore, what is the point for us to report on these indicators, where you pay close attention to the fact that the debt and budget deficit are relatively low, but what is the point when we have less expenditure on science and education? I say relative, not absolute. At times, our defense spending is less. Our health is in a tragic state. Municipal and other hospitals are shut down, people come here on strike. Well, what is the point then of an accounting display of balance, provided that there is not a single sector in Bulgaria that is financed enough and the scariest that is reformed?! The state debt is not tied to the economy, although recalling it, the public debt is almost doubled compared to 2007. In addition, honourable Members, I would like to give you a few data that are fornicating and instructive. The relationship between long and development is very complicated. It cannot be said at all that the lower the debt, the higher the development dynamics, and I am sure that my colleague Goranov will agree. Look what the World Bank says. Do you know, fellow Members, which country in the world has the lowest debt to gross domestic product? I'm gonna surprise you, Afghanistan, with 7.64. Yesterday, I pulled out the 20 countries with the lowest debt in gross domestic product by removing absolutely accurate and conscientiously only the countries exporting oil. Look what's going on. The first is Afghanistan with 7.6, Estonia alone from the European Union, with 8.7, the Solomon Islands "10, Uzbekistan, Botswana, Congo, Kazakhstan, Algeria and Sudan are 19%. You bet the debt down to 20% over the next three years. I have reviewed the budgets of the Member States of the European Union and the euro area. They have no such intention of lowering the debt below 60%! That is why we are telling you, dear colleagues, sit down and think: are you pushing debt policy towards Afghanistan or towards the euro area and other EU member states? What is the duty in other countries of the European Union? You know, about 90%, with a 60% limit. What is the duty of the other Eastern European countries to say are on our rug? The Czech Republic is 53%, Poland is 69, Hungary is 97, Slovenia is 102, Romania is 38, and I recall that Romania in the late 1980s followed a crazy policy to zero debt and started from zero. I don't think that's a very good example. So, no European country has such policies. Next, the budget expenditure. Dear colleagues, we do not collect anything as budget revenues, because the differences in expenditure and revenue are 2, 3, 4.5% for some countries, for others more. Speaking of revenue, this concerns, of course, expenses. Well, look at the data of the countries we're looking for. We have 37%, the government has said that we will move to 35% in the opposite direction. What do other countries and nations do? Finland seven percent, France six percent, Denmark 55, Austria 51, Italy 50, Sweden 50. What are the sides of our rug doing? Hungary - 50, Slovenia - 48, Slovakia - 45, Czech Republic - 42, Poland - 42, Estonia - 40. What's next? Firstly, that in the most developed European countries, their budget spending, respectively, revenues, is about 55.. 57% of gross domestic product. [[The President Emil Hristov signaled that time had expired.]] Can we include it in the debate time?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u128	There is no such practice, but please present. You can.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u129	Okay. Thank you. I'll try to be brief. Honourable Members, the difference with developed countries is 20% and with other Eastern European countries, the difference is about 10%. Do you know what that means? That we do not collect by European standards between 10 billion and 20 billion. lv. But excuse me, do you realize what Bulgaria's budget would look like with another 10 billion or 20 billion?! Yes, that cannot happen in a year, Mr. Goranov, but you are pursuing a policy that is contrary to these processes. With this data, indisputable trends and dependencies in Bulgaria there is no way to increase the share of what we said about education, health care, investment sectors. How's this gonna work? In what way will we shrink back to Europe budget expenditure in gross domestic product, while catching up and catching up with Europe? Last but not least, in economic history, there is not a single case in which a country has emerged from a crisis, has stimulated its economy, has built a modern market economy through zero budget deficits, zero debts. There's no country like that. The practice of the 18th century and the last crisis is that when there is difficulty, what do the governments of France, Hungary, Poland and the United States do? They increase budget spending, restructure and stimulate their economy, not what we are doing right now. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the problem is that on this policy we are not moving at two speeds in Europe. We are not at second speed, Bulgaria is moving at reverse speed. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. The draft decision should have been heard, but we'll read it further.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u131	Thank you. In this regard, we propose a draft solution: The Council of Ministers shall, by 19 January 2018, prepare and submit to the National Assembly a detailed analysis for the period 2015 with regard to: 1. The ratio between the fiscal reserve and the public debt, respectively, for the revenues from the investment of the reserve in financial instruments and the costs of public debt service. 2. The price achieved for debt instruments compared to the price for similar loans for Romania and the Visegrad Four countries. 3. The effects of external government debt financing on the Bulgarian banking system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u132	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Before we proceed, Mrs. Stoyanova, would you like to present your draft decision? [[Applause to Menda Stoyanova.]] You're giving up. I'm opening the debate on questions. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. Mr. Stoinev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u133	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The country's debt is hardly managed. I would say that it is the only one, if we can call it that The decision horizon is therefore a year, a year and a half, which is quite short-term. And because Mrs. Menda Stoyanova did not want to read the decision GERB proposes, namely for the management of the debt for 2018 - 2020, it is this Strategy to be adopted. We cannot agree, because our goal is really to have a more transparent strategy and if possible longer-term, because the lack of long-term strategy is obvious. An artificially low supply of debt is maintained, and now perhaps its best possible time for the state. This artificially low supply does not create a normal market environment and makes it non-attractive for external investors. Institutional domestic investors are practically buying debt to avoid keeping their money at negative interest rates. This, ladies and gentlemen, is insurance funds, pension funds and banks. Public policy and debt speaking during the previous term were wrong and did not provide the most advantageous levels of the state. The announcement that 16 billion will be taken has given the wrong signal about the real needs of the state, which has made the debt less profitable compared to a normal communication. It cannot be called a mid-term communication and management strategy, but it is a staggering by, at first glance, a modern instrument that turned out to be pointless and was on the verge of breach of the Constitution. Another false signal was the announcement that a debt would be taken to possibly recapitalise banks after assessing their assets. This has created tension, and unfortunately the wrong expectations. Currently, there is absolutely no communication on debt, which creates market uncertainty and a lack of predictability in the emissions calendar. There is no short-term paper likely to achieve a very close to zero interest rate, resulting in a situation where, notice, short-term costs are financed by long-term debt. The shock spending in the last months of the year is ineffective, opaque, without a real sanction of parliament, creating doubts as to how money is being used so quickly and on what criteria have been allocated. This artificially increases costs, reduces the fiscal reserve and does not allow for further debt reduction. We will not return to the way GERB in his first term in the time of Mr. Djankov managed the debt, because this may be an example and to write a book: Mr. Minister, you are currently facing a huge challenge, namely that this low debt, which we have, apart from bragging to rating agencies and to the European Commission, de facto it brings nothing to the Bulgarian economy. After all, when a debt is low, as among European investors, it is a sign that in the future the state will make real investments for its respective internal economy. Unfortunately, so far we have not seen such a kind of investment on your part. We are talking about real incentives for more sustainable economic growth, because if we are talking about the potential of economic growth, we are really almost running out of it. We are talking here about qualified labour, we are talking about necessary capital, about innovation, about new modern technologies that will really develop a more sustainable economic growth, and not one that will be fully influenced, unfortunately, by external factors. Here is the great challenge, but unfortunately, we do not have such debates in the Bulgarian Parliament. Perhaps your reluctance and lack of such a desire to debate what will happen in the next 10 years, and whether you are ready to invest in the future depends entirely on your political power. I assure you that we are also prepared by the opposition to support such a debate when we talk about real investment in the future, in new technologies, in innovation, in human capital. Of course, we are in favour, because it is our key potential to increase economic growth, not the self-sustaining debt, whether it be for the repayment of one, or it just needs to be taken to fill holes. Here, of course, you will not get any support from us, but if we are serious about a long-term strategy, properly communicating for debt management, which really leads to sustainable economic growth, I assure you that we can really talk and even get support, because the lack of our internal investments is indeed a fact. You do not want to compensate it, you consider that the more, the less the state interferes, the better, but there are areas in which the state really needs to intervene. This is what the most liberal economies do by starting with the United States of America, so we should not just be extras, be spectators, and the opposition's desire is for Bulgaria to be an active player and the government to really have a more active role when deciding the future of the country as well as investment policy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u134	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines? Statements? Mr. Shopov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u135	Dear colleagues, very strange, I would say puzzling debate! How'd you get in? How'd you get in that dot? I'm explaining here things are on the line between the political, economic, macroeconomic, financial, budget, all mixed up. As I said, your coalition partners from DPS are not here, in mother tongue. So why? Well, you've got a gun on this tool for asking questions. There's it in the Rules, there's no harm in that, and periodically you use it as a toolbox. There's nothing wrong with that, I'm just explaining what your strategic plan is. Well, sitting there, watching, wondering this is going on, it's not going on, well, what to do, what to do, for this week we have to come up with a question here, and this week it's fallen to discuss matters with external debt. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And that's it! Here, so in thicker ranks, unlike the rulers, have gathered, coming out some of your coffers, the other rucksacks after each, notice. Something happens, another fair may come out, come out of this question with its respective debates. Well, that's what the fair and circus were all about yesterday, today's fair and circus, truths, half-truths, yes, really here a moment ago there was talk about the important role of the state truth. A lot of half-truths, absolute lies and untruths! So, out of this whole debate you're waiting for a rabbit to come out of today again, right, some guy, that's your job, it's not about external debt, it's not about external debt, it's not about the foreign debt debate. For me the benefit, to tell you, is that I literally, yes, this erase, how you, when you take a billion external debt jump here, heat things up to red, the state turns around and you paint some apocalyptic paintings about the collapse, about the end of the Bulgarian state, hardly, and today I listen to some fairy tales, I am not an economist from which exactly 180 degrees pleads, you convince me how good it was to increase the external debt, how the external debt of Bulgaria was very small. That is why I say: this is neither politics, nor macroeconomics, nor any views, nor do you care about the growth of external debt, nor about the benefits of external debt, whether to borrow, where to invest. Everything is as much as you are in this staff right now, to make an order for your main command, if possible, a fair, a circus. The spitters on duty here are standing, waiting, sharpening their ears, if they can from any line, take occasion from somewhere to do the seir again of the Bulgarian people. [[Noise and lines from the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u136	Mr. Shopov! Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u137	That's all. The whole benefit of this debate and therefore the most affected is the Minister of Finance, who should give here a healthy tone, reasonable explanations, which, in fact, your arguments cannot be given. [[Applause and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I'm guessing he's got lines. You have a word for a line, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u139	Mr. Shopov, are you sure you understand what the debate is about today? [[Laughter]] Because I didn't know from your story if you understood it. If I could get something out of the debate we're talking about, from your statement this is that you see, we wanted to withdraw more debt. No, we say that the debt is mismanaged, which is another statement, but that's the only thing that had anything to do with the subject, the other was free writings. Come on, seriously, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u140	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Come in for a second line, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u141	Mr. Shopov, I understand that you are not an economist and are trying to understand the debate that is currently being made by BSP, and it is very difficult for you because you hear conflicting opinions between one speaker and the other. The first speaker said that we spend very little, that we have very few rates of expenditure compared to gross domestic product and that we are quoted by other countries and peoples. The second speaker said we're spending a lot. Not to mention that the second speaker had a contradiction between the first part of the speech he read and the second part, which was already his speech from soul and heart. So, Mr. Shopov, I'm very sorry, but I don't think you'll be able to understand anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. For the back, Mr. Shopov? You have the floor. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u143	Look, I'm risking to really stir up the spirits and actually give them the BSP colleagues, give them the clue to develop what they're going for, that is, asking a mystery, kind of a pass-by in football. That is the point on which I come out to put in principle the question that many of their actions, many of their procedural questions on Fridays, have exactly that purpose and that meaning. I really can't understand the economic meaning of what you're saying! A man gets schizophrenic. Honestly, I can't understand one of them saying one thing, the other saying another, and there's no logic. I therefore go out on the stand to try to clarify that you of the BSP in such cases have nothing more than propaganda, your political, small goals and intrigues, and it is not a question to you either of the state interest or of the meaning of what you are talking about, except to make another scandal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u144	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In your speech last week you argued that for Bulgaria the budget balance is important and maintaining a low share of debt from GDP are crucial for macroeconomic stability. However, I believe that other factors related to the economic security of the state guarantee both macroeconomic stability and economic development. The stability of the production potential of defence-related companies is an important part of the economic security of the state. However, budgetary balance and improper debt management do not solve this fundamental issue. Moreover, with the maintenance of budgetary balance and low debt will rather continue the systematic underfinancing and chronic failure to finance the army, as well as other key sectors. Let me remind you that the security sector is one of the main, key for the country, whose role is to provide an important public good, as is the security and defence of the country. Why do you deprive Bulgarian citizens of security and economic development? Conducting a policy of maintaining budgetary balance and low debt rather does not allow for overcoming serious financial constraints and reaching 2% as a spending of gross domestic defence product, which is also a commitment to NATO. These financial restrictions hinder the substantial increase in the wages of servicemen, of civilians in the Ministry of Defence. These financial constraints do not allow the purchase of fighter planes that are needed, of new weapons, equipment and rapid implementation of modernisation programmes. The financial constraints rather worsen the condition of the Bulgarian Army as a result of the budget balance and incorrect debt management. This leads in fact to the inability of the Bulgarian Army to fulfill its obligations, tasks and alliance commitments to NATO in full. Maintaining budgetary balance and incorrect government debt management thus creates conditions for the lag of the Bulgarian Armed Forces in technological and military terms, because our neighbouring countries are refueling, buying new combat planes, ships, armored machines. Look at one Greece, for example, although there is a very high share of debt from gross domestic product, it does not prevent it from being rearmed the last few years. And we're trying to provide funds to repair the MiGs and we don't have 17 million. lv. for the maintenance of the Spartans. By the way, this is the pride of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, of which only one Not to mention the Kugars. Thanks to budgetary balance policy and this debt management, we are considering buying the modest 16 new aircraft, while the other countries have 200 This policy puts Bulgaria in 67th place according to the rankings of the strongest armies in 133 countries. This assessment uses criteria as a total amount of armaments. Of course, there is something else important, such as criteria, the balance of military power and the variety of available weapons. Including here, I would point to the enviable hundred tanks and several hundred armored machines of 30 years old. Of course, he doesn't have the resources to sustain them. The budgetary balance and this debt management condemns the Bulgarian Army to continuing financial shortages and underfinancing. I believe that we, like you, want a modern army and a swift re-arming of the army to be able to fight. But this policy creates obstacles to modernization. The relationship of security has long been established.. Economic development. The modernisation programmes can stimulate the military industry and generate economic growth. The provision of funds for modernisation and procurement to the defence industry can create jobs, increase profits, invest in new technologies and increase budget revenues through similar instruments. In other words, the budgetary balance and the current governance of debt strongly restrict economic development and lead key sectors for each country rather towards gradual destruction. One of them, unfortunately, which is very important, is Security and Defence. Minister, what is the point of your aimless budgetary balance and low external debt, far from European norms, when with it we cannot guarantee national sovereignty and territorial integrity? How will the budget zero deficit buy planes, new ships and tanks? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u146	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Any lines to Mr. Tsonkov's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u147	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! The debate may also be richer if it adds an opposition proposal on what alternative policies can be conducted so that the budget balance, government debt, budget deficit and the role of the state is in another ratio that corresponds to another doctrine offered by the left. I will try to extract as a reaction from the statements of my colleagues from the BSP what I have understood. Colleagues think the low level of government debt is a problem. They give examples that other countries that are successfully developed have greater government debt. Perhaps this conclusion is drawn through the fact that the increase in the budget deficit, which inevitably leads to an increase in government debt, an investee in some meaningful projects, would lead to an increase in the growth of the economy, something that I do not accept as a concept, because spending government money can never be with such a multiplier as to increase the economy by a greater percentage of the cost that is being carried out, otherwise it means efficiency over 100% and a perpetum-mobile in practice. But that's not the biggest problem. The bigger problem is the misunderstanding of the role of the budget in the government. The search for a direct link between economic development, investment in real production and the Bulgarian budget cannot be directly found in view of the structure of the state and its structure. If you, colleagues, are proposing to create new state enterprises or, if you are proposing to carry out expenditure in support of new proceedings, this is hardly directly linked to the Bulgarian budget. On the one hand, because it questions strongly the State aid scheme, which is not in the discretion of the Bulgarian state. On the other hand, have we reached the efficiency of government to claim that we can better decide instead of people? And here comes the debate on size for the state. Here comes the debate on the role of tax policy and the size of the Bulgarian state. There are societies, especially in Scandinavia, where the share of redistribution exceeds 50 Unfortunately, colleagues, 28 years of transition do not give enough reason to believe that the development of Bulgarian society has reached this stage where society can decide through the authorities better than the ordinary citizen. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]] Romania, by the way, Mr. Dichev, if you look at it, you will see that it has a lower distribution share than Bulgaria. But this is a Eurostatistic that can be verified at any moment. However, the increase, fellow Members, in the share of the country's redistribution must go through a change in the tax model at the moment. Low taxes, which are a prerequisite for growth, have certain shortcomings in terms of redistribution from rich to poor. But in any case, the increase by 10 percentage points of the size of the state, i.e. what we recall from Bulgarian citizens, inevitably goes through a drastic increase in the tax burden, most likely for the middle class, because most of the proposals that come from you in this direction go through the impossible solution of the task of leaving a non-taxable minimum, not to increase in the middle of the income groups taxes and to take from the richest. [[Replications from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u148	Please, Mr. Gechev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u149	I listened to you carefully, Mr. Gechev, and I will continue in a moment with what you wanted to debate about. You say government debt is badly managed. A similar finding is possible, but I would like to assure you that for 2015 and 2016, for when you want an analysis to be submitted, on the basis of the survey conducted in the annual ranking of Global Capital, Bulgaria was chosen as the most impressive borrower from Central and Eastern Europe. For information, colleagues, Global Capital is a leading global platform for news, opinions, data and services for people, institutions that use and are employed in international capital markets. For 2016, when the second tranche was issued, the Republic of Bulgaria was honoured by the prestigious magazine "Globel Market" with the award of the Best State in Central and Eastern Europe on Government Debt Management/Emitting of Bonds on International Capital Markets. In the article then it was written this way: The excellent timing for the transfer of the double tranche of eurobonds in March, carried out immediately after the quantitative easing measures announced by the ECB, in combination with the unexpected decision of the Ministry of Finance to issue bonds without having previously held the traditional Roadshow, are on the basis of the prize awarded. The financial market specialization issue notes that a similar method for issuing bonds shows growing financial wealth and confidence of the country. I will use the stands for a few more minutes to try to answer your question a little more deeply, Professor Gechev, to the Minister of Finance. 1. Balance of fiscal reserve and government debt. Let us recall: the fiscal reserve was created immediately after the currency board as a response to the fact that the state, missing the Central Bank's issue policy, and by denying the Central Bank the possibility of being a creditor of the government, must have sufficient liquid buffers to prevent it from falling into a state of insolvency. In a moment, I will return to what the higher amount of the fiscal reserve has led to. Historically, however, the fiscal reserve by deposit and as a relative share in gross domestic product is not unusually high in the last 20 years. In the period before the global crisis, the relative share of gross domestic product of stocks available in the fiscal reserve is even higher than the levels for the period 2016. On average, for the period January 15 October 2017, the share of the fiscal reserve is 1.4% compared to 12.9% of gross domestic product for the period January 2007. - December 2008 For the period 2009 The average share of the fiscal reserve in gross domestic product is 9,3%, or for a period of 10 years the fiscal reserve is maintained at an interval of 10 to 12 per cent of GDP after the peak of 2008, taking into account a gradual contraction of the fiscal reserve until mid-2014. The total cumulative net nominal increase in government debt amounts to around 1,4 billion from 2015 to October 2017. BGN, or 22,1 billion. lv. as of 31 December 2014, and reaches 23,5 billion by 31 October 2017. This is statistics. For the same period, the relative share of government debt in gross domestic product decreased from 26.4% at 31 December 2014 to 23.6% at 30 October 2017, which is a decrease of 2.8 percentage points. 2. The ratio of interest-rate reserve deposits. The higher levels of the fiscal reserve in recent years are largely the result of the strategy for forming and maintaining fiscal buffers. I would like to draw attention to you here that maintaining higher fiscal buffers has led to the following effects on the economy for which the debate started and it is good to comment. You are probably familiar, colleagues, but I can leave you with this statistics, which shows the change in the spread of interest rates by countries and by type of credit against the Eurozone. As a result of the high levels of the fiscal reserve and restoring confidence in the Bulgarian economy, which led to an increase in the country's credit rating from 1 December 2017, and we already have an investment credit rating, in recent years from December 2014 to the end of October 2017, we have the fastest drop in the European Union of interest on loans. This is a direct impact on the economy because it saves both households and real businesses costs. With regard to housing loans, we certainly have the biggest decline and it is 2 percentage points in this period. With regard to loans to enterprises we have 3 percentage points drop in interest rates on loans, which inevitably means a direct impact on the costs of businesses and households, and improving the way they are financed. A few words because you were interested in how Bulgaria was issued in relation to the other countries of Central and Eastern Europe. I will quote you data regarding emissions with similar maturity and maturity for several countries. The yield of the government securities by issue of Bulgarian Eurobonds with maturity 2022 At the time of its issue in March 2015 it was 2.1%. Since then, however, colleagues, we have an amendment in the spread against German securities by 150 points and currently the spread of this issue of Bulgarian Eurobonds with a maturity of 2022 is 38 basis points, which is equal to the Czech Republic, which is four or five times higher credit rating than Bulgaria, according to the individual steps in which credit agencies have structured their arrangement of credit ratings. If we are talking about Slovenia and Slovakia, yes, they are with half the spread compared to German Eurobonds, but it should be borne in mind that this effect is mainly based on the quantitative facilities that the European Central Bank makes and on the basis of the purchases of state securities of Slovenia and Slovakia, which, unlike us, are members of the Eurozone. With regard to Poland, a country with a much higher credit rating than ours, the spread against German Eurobonds is 42 basis points. If we are talking about Romania, Hungary and Croatia, our spread is 38 basis points, Romania is 331, Hungary is 308, Croatia is 153 basis points. That is, in times higher risk premium the citizens of these countries and their governments pay, because the risk profile measured through their individual bond issuances is reflected directly in the financing not only of the budget, but also of the financial institutions I can then provide you with the statistics, which, by the way, is accessible, but perhaps in more specialised databases for the facility, I will provide it to you. I conclude with the fact that the change in the yield of the Bulgarian Eurobonds, and not only the Bulgarian Eurobonds, at all, of the bonds issued on the Bulgarian market has an extremely good impact on the Bulgarian banking system, because the change in the yield increases the price of the respective bonds held by the Bulgarian commercial banks, as a result of which the change in the price levels of the Bulgarian Eurobonds immediately affects the balance sheets of the commercial banks. They have positive revaluations, which immediately influences the financial situation of the overall banking system. And not just colleagues of the banking system. The decrease in profitability and respectively rising prices of Bulgarian government securities, whether denominated in BGN or euro, immediately lead to improvement and positive profitability in pension companies and in Bulgarian insurers. All this does not change the debate about whether we should have a higher debt, which should not be an objective. A higher debt may come if we decide for some reason with a targeted strategy to maintain high levels of budget deficits, which in no case should be related simply to loosening the belts and investing in more costs, whether they are airplanes, helicopters or other not so directly related to the daily life of the Bulgarian citizens. Certainly, however, if we want the state to have a greater reassignment in the economy, this must go through a much more serious debate related to its role and must, through an increase in taxes, a debate that we have not conducted fully, because at any time when the left raises the debate on progressive or flat taxation, at this point we are not entirely honest that there are only two options or a huge loss for the budget, or an increase in taxes of the middle and low income groups. Because if you return at the end of 2007, when the last time progressive income tax was applied, then you will find, you will recall that in the Law on personal income taxes the rate was 26%. We cannot, fellow Members, talk about solving the equation, yet I say, either through significant budget losses, which are measured in static calculations, compared to your latest proposal, about a billion and three hundred billion and a half, or through an increase in the taxes of the middle class, something that we of the Political Party GERB and in the election campaign, and subsequently together with our colleagues from the "United Patriarchs" we do not accept as politics. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Goranov. Let's move on to the vote. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I ended the debate before I gave the floor to Mr. Goranov. I will first read Mr. Rumen Gechev's draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u151	Can I have a personal explanation? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u152	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u153	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, I won't abuse you. I'm gonna have to ask you to come up with a single sentence. It's obvious that the positions are different. I think it's the right conclusion, Mr. Goranov, that nothing prevents him from sitting down and discussing effective governance. Whatever we are talking about here, fellow Members, there is one criterion: the credit rating may be high, but foreign investments are 700 million euros against 10 billion euros 2007! [[(Comments from GERB: This is a statement!]] It's not a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u154	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u155	The assessment of foreign investors is "Weak (2) ". I'm sorry. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u156	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. I'll read you first: Project! DECISION in relation to the debate on question No 754-05-55 of 22 November 2017 by the National Representative Rumen Gechev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on government debt The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Council of Ministers, by 19 January 2018, to prepare and submit to the National Assembly a detailed analysis for the period 2015 - 2018 with regard to: 1. the ratio between the fiscal reserve and the public debt, respectively, for the revenues from the investment of the reserve in financial instruments and the costs of the public debt service; 2. a price achieved for debt instruments compared to the price of similar loans for Romania and the Visegrad Four countries; 3. the effects of external government debt financing on the Bulgarian banking system. Importers. "Roumen Gechev and a group of MPs. We will first vote on this draft decision. Please, voting mode. Vote 160 MPs: 57 against 97, abstention 6. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u157	Mrs. Karayancheva, there's a re-vote procedure! [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u158	Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. Didn't get a vote or a coworker's vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u159	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like a re-vote procedure for my fellow Members in the final seconds of the vote. Thank you. [[(Happy tidings.) Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u160	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Please vote on the draft decision. Vote 160 MPs: 54, against 102, abstention 4. The offer is not accepted. I'll introduce you to the second one: Project! DECISION in relation to the debate on question No 754-05-55 of 22 November 2017 by the National Representative Rumen Gechev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on government debt The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Instructs the Minister of Finance to submit to the National Assembly, by 15 January 2018, by Decision No 663 of 1 November 2017 of the Council of Ministers, a State Debt Management Strategy for the period 2018 Please, voting mode. Vote 167 MPs: 121, against 44, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] Thank you, colleagues. I also thank Minister Goranov for participating in today's parliamentary control. We move on to questions to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev. He will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin about an e-government policy. Mr. Danchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr Deputy Prime Minister! In a series of questions to you, as in charge of e-government, I and a group of MPs from the BSP for Bulgaria have shown that the vast majority of the funds allocated to e-government are being absorbed, but without any practical benefit for the citizens of the country. Moreover, the stated objectives in the Strategy for the Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria (2014-2020) and the projects listed for funding in the roadmap developed to it strengthen the conviction of the public that the government is focusing its efforts rather on continuing absorption without practical benefit and tossing smoke into the public mind with the launch of electronic services that have been implemented far before the mandate of this governance. Although according to a series of annual reports on the state of administration more than 80% of administrative services, including electronic, are provided by municipal administrations, they are again not present as beneficiaries of e-government funds in the state budget for 2018. Strange, are they? For several ministries and government departments, more than 109 million have been allocated. BGN, and for 265 Bulgarian municipalities, which bear more than 80% of the administrative burden, including the introduction of electronic management - zero! Put in understandable language, the introduction of e-government to be felt accessible by our fellow citizens is postponed in the following year - a failure whose price of hundreds of millions will again pay the Bulgarian citizens. And so that you do not decide that we are malicious, I am in a hurry to say that we already have facts about more than 20 million thrown at the stake of electronic government in just the last three years. This is also one of our main motives to strongly oppose the continuation of this type of management policy of absorption. In this regard is our question to you: why after several years of work and millions of spent levs have no results in the construction of e-government? With what did the creation of a separate State Agency "E-Management" contribute to the acceleration of the construction and introduction of electronic governance in Bulgaria? What are the policies and guidelines for reforming the work of building e-government by the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u162	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to respond within five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u163	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear questioners, I'm afraid in your question you've given false data! There has been a strong exaggeration of the funds that are being allocated historically to e-government. I do not want to comment on how effective efforts have been in the last decade to build efficient electronic governance, because they have not been so effective. In addition, the undisputed truth is that the funds allocated are very few... only over 120 million?! [[Replications from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Georgi Svilenski.]] Do not confuse the funds for the electronicization of administrations, for the purchase of computers, monitors, cables, printers with electronic controls have nothing to do with it! In the years back, the main resource that is invested is to purchase computer configurations, sometimes servers for administrations. As a result, we have 129,000 computers in the administration, which is not bad in itself, but also completely insufficient. Having electronic management means overall architecture, the logic of electronic management, and I told you that your admission, your idea of electronic management is... this is not a set of electronic services, that is, every administration to do an electronic service. This is completely different! We must ensure that registers speak to each other as an alternative to the provision of paper reference, and that is the goal. I'll comment in a moment. By the way, the countries with developed electronic control allocate much more resources. One Sweden, one UK devotes more than 1% of gross domestic product to electronic governance and the results are available. Bulgaria, even for electronization, even for the purchase of computers, monitors, printers separates small amounts from the gross domestic product. A small Estonia for electronic governance only from 2007 to the end of 2020 has to spend 260 million. Euros. The scales are absolutely unparalleled and I say that the allocated funds in Bulgaria are actually few! What is the use, and what is the point of the State Agency's Electronic Management? To bring order to this process.. prioritize, centralize, coordinate and especially consolidation, because in the years back we were masters of the separative solutions. As you have commented, an administration is preparing a project with funding from either European or state funding and is electronising a service. Another administration somewhere else, prepares another project and electronizes another service. Very nice! And has anyone thought about whether the information from the two registers could be linked, if they could talk to each other? Because electronic control is not to make an electronic analogue of paper processes. No! This is a completely different way of thinking. In fact, the most important question is: what is logic, what are the priorities of the government? I'll try to explain it by avoiding technical and ingenious terms. What does the administrative process look like? I'm going to a certain administration and requesting a service or a permit. For this purpose, I must respond to five or six circumstances. On the current model, I am supplying five or six documents from different administrations. I go to the first one, the second one, the third one, the fourth one, the fifth and the sixth one, I prepare my file and carry it to the seventh administration. I say, "Because I meet conditions from one to six, I have certified them with documents, please give me the service." In order to have real e-government, we must stop the practice of the citizen bringing documents to the administration! This information is available in other state administrations. However, this does not mean that administrations correspond to each other, does not even mean that they cancel this information by e-mail. Any administration, any such information must be within a register. This register must be accessible by the other administration and when I go and declare an administrative service, this must be verified by official means. I don't even have to go, I could get this service electronically. About what we're doing right now. First, we follow an overall architecture and logic. Secondly, all the more sensitive supplies, each purchase and ordering software is already controlled to make it clear that it will be part of the entire tissue of electronic control. We started by electronizing those services for which we already have adequate electronic registers. They're not that many, unfortunately. Your attention, thank you for your support! The first legal texts are already in place. Over 100 laws must be changed both on the occasion of the criminal record and on the occasion of other certificates. When we talk about targets, I believe that if we follow the same pace, not only the first and second package of paper services will be removed in the coming months, but by the end of 2018, we will stop the practices of administrations communicating on paper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u164	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You have an opportunity for further questions. The first of them will develop the people's representative Mr. Svilenski. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you are aware that the people in this room and those who watch TV are watching us right now, and they know very well what power management means?! We don't have to explain to them here when they go to one administration when they file the papers for what they're supposed to get! The point of our questioning was in a completely different direction. The figures, which my colleague Danchev said, are absolutely true. lv. For three years! They are not invented by Danchev, Vigenin and Svilenski, but are submitted by your ministers within a month exchange of parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u166	They're wrong!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u167	They submitted this data and they didn't include computers, cables, printers and whatever else you said. These include money spent on e-government, from which, at some point again, someone in government says that the electronic management of what has been done so far is worthless and needs to be reopened. Perhaps many things have been done, but many things are to be done! Allow me to quote a very brief part of the Status Review and the Annual Plan for the Development and Upgrading of Information Resources in the Administration and Resources of the Single Electronic Communication Network of the State Administration and for the needs of national security. It says that: "State Agency "E-Management" carried out a documentary review of the developed systems and their functionalities and analyzed the possibilities for their integration for the purpose of electronic management. The analysis shows that the systems developed so far and their functionalities cannot be used as a common platform for electronic control. In this sense, is it interesting to tell us is there an analysis of what has been done so far to take account of failures, unusable projects, but also to find the guilty and point out the solutions, including within the framework of the work of the State Agency? The already quoted report says that: "In the provisions of the Law on Electronic Governance and the regulations on the general requirements of................................................................................................................................................................. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , clear rules are laid down in registers and electronic administrative services for carrying out controls, where appropriate, of the costs of administrative bodies for electronic management. The scope of this control includes all the costs that administrations plan and carry out to acquire, carry out information resources. That sounds great, but the problem is precisely in spending money on non-functioning systems. There is practically no project in is the management that has been implemented and which has not been strongly, sometimes not in percentages, but in times oversized. In this sense, it is also my second supplementary question: what measures do you intend to take to stop the acquisition of funds to upgrade proven senseless projects or to integrate non-working ones? What measures are you taking to end the outrageous resizing of projects related to electronic management? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u168	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u169	Dear Mr. Svilensky, I think the point of this conversation, even if it is held in parliament, is to listen to people! In this sense, it is pointless for me to supply you with accurate information, including numbers, and then a minute later you to claim something different. It's even more pointless to repeat what I just said. That's what you did! Some of the costs that have been incurred in the years back are ineffective, they are not targeted, they are not aimed in a good direction. Do they have the character of abuse? Purely procedurally, allow me to point out that if there is a fair and transparent public procurement, there is no way for a single cost to be resized for one simple reason the market would not allow it! This can only happen with a procedure where there is one candidate and he submitted an offer with a sized price, but when there are ten, the market would not allow resizing. What is done so that old mistakes do not repeat themselves and eventually move forward? As I told you a while ago, one of the functions of the State Agency is to make a preliminary review of any significant expenditure it was for hardware, it was for software, not only to ensure that the expenditure is at a decent price and is in the right direction, to ensure that what it is supplied can be integrated into the whole. This is the right way! Something else, we did a detailed review of all the services provided by state administrations. I was extremely surprised to learn that this has not been done in decades. All the certification documents.. about 6000 are required by the citizens, which allowed us to focus our efforts in the right direction. Because, as I said earlier, if we don't solve the trust documents problem, if we don't transfer them to electronic records, if we don't get them talking to each other, there won't be any electronic controls! At best, we'll have a mechanical collection of electronic services. There are all kinds of problems. I'll give you one of the examples. We have some registers that are completely digitized in the years behind. We are surprised to find that some registers are only up-to-date after 2000. The data was not previously digitized, which made them not fully usable. Therefore, if you ask me what the efforts were in particular and in the direction of the registers, it is not only a digitalization of what is on paper, but also a guarantee that each register is absolutely up to date. Because it would be absurd for a service that can be delivered electronically, to allow at the same time a parallel paper process. There can only be a paper process for those who want it on paper! For everyone else who has a mobile smartphone, a computer must run electronically. If you'll allow me to sum up. I am convinced that, as a political cut, the efforts are entirely in the right direction. As far as I'm concerned, and it should depend on me, I wouldn't allow any unnecessary costs or oversized projects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u170	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The procedure provides for an opportunity for importers to respond within two minutes to the response received. Here you go, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Donchev, it really isn't right to throw data and numbers at each other or repeat them, but I'm forced to say that the 200 million we've earned as data...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u172	One hundred and twenty!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u173	...for the funds spent over the last three years are indeed the result of answers that your colleagues from different departments have given. Apart from that, you mentioned that Estonia is planning to spend about 200 million in 10 years. Euros...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u174	Two hundred and sixty million!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u175	Okay, 260, make it 300. You provide in the 2018 budget for several central administrations 109 million. lv. to be spent. So the percentage in one year is probably much more money spent in Bulgaria. I wouldn't say it's too small. There is simply no synchronization of the spending of funds with the implementation of administrative reform, with the construction of e-government and, respectively, the administration implements activities that lead to vaguely defined products and services for the construction of e-government, which in turn significantly reduces the efficiency of spending public funds. A well-functioning environment has been created for uncontrolled spending of public funds, mainly at national level, where work on e-government is sustainable and put into a state of ongoing activities with unclear or directly unusable results. I will pay only a brief attention to a study which came out a few days ago "of the Bulgarian Industrial Association." The information has become publicly available. According to her, only one-fifth of Bulgarian administrations provide electronic services, but with regard to the data that this money has been spent over the past ten years, of 2 billion. BGN, which you say are extremely false or at least such a hint you made in your introductory speech today, I would say that such a conclusion was made by your colleague, the predecessor Mrs. Rumyana Bachvarova, just a few years ago, when she was responsible for electronic governance. According to data of the State Agency for Electronic Governance only 20 municipal administrations from 265 in Bulgaria have started to digitalize their documents. We have noticed, as I said, that in the State Budget Act for 2018 the funds for e-government in the central administration are drawn up in a separate application, which is good, of course, but it would be good to do this in municipal budgets too, because at least for me it is not clear where the next year municipal administrations will receive funds for e-government, i.e., as I said, the conclusion is that the introduction of electronic governance in local administration, where 80% of the services for citizens and businesses are postponed indefinitely. And in order not to sound extremely negative, I would point out that electronic government in Bulgaria is really developing, but extremely slowly, at a very high price, as we said, and in practice our country is falling far behind the other countries. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In a word, we believe that the subject cannot be closed, Mr President, within this questioning and we are submitting, Mr President, a proposal for a debate on our questioning of the policy of e-government with the required number of signatures. [[Presents to the presiding document folder.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u176	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. There's a proposal I'm going to report. Honourable MPs, in connection with the inquiry we just had, by letter No 754-00-136 of 15.12.2017, submitted today at 12.21 pm, received a request for discussion on the question No 754-05-56 of 22.11.2017 and a draft decision on the questioning set by the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Georgi Svilenski and Christian Vigenin to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on an e-government policy. The proposal and the draft decision are signed by 64 MPs, that is to say the requirement of art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly more than one-fifth of the Members of the National Assembly to make a proposal for a debate on the questioning. Therefore, on the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next meeting designated for parliamentary control. We are continuing with the issues of today's parliamentary control. The following questions are addressed to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who will answer first a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Violeta Jeleva and Kristina Sidorova regarding Christmas supplements to pensions. You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u177	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, three weeks ago together with colleagues Violeta Zheleva and Georgi Gokov we asked an up-to-date question about the Christmas supplements, which this year the Council of Ministers for Pensioners grants. To date, however, a large number of these Christmas supplements have already been obtained by pensioners. Unfortunately, however, for one million Bulgarian citizens, there will be no extra penny for Christmas. We hoped that through this question you would reconsider your decision, but, unfortunately, this did not happen. 2017 can be ranked among the most unfair years for Bulgarian citizens and especially for Bulgarian pensioners and the insurance system. On some, pensions were increased several times with a solid amount, but others did not receive a penny. Unfortunately, these thousands of Bulgarian citizens will not receive a penny for Christmas. With its decision a month ago, the cabinet releases Christmas supplements for only 57% of Bulgarian pensioners. Nearly one million Bulgarian elderly citizens remained without Christmas supplements. It's BGN 322. Or 325 BGN. are enough for a decent existence and for a decent welcome to the holidays? Rather, the answer, I am convinced, you believe all of this, is not. In order to receive all Bulgarian pensioners Christmas supplements additional 40 million are needed. lv. In the last two months alone, hundreds of millions of leva have been distributed through a decree of the Council of Ministers. Not a single penny of them reached the Bulgarian pensioner. I don't need to remind you of the supplements that the Greek pensioners received. The comparison is extremely offensive to all Bulgarian adults. In this regard, our question to you is: why did you divide the Bulgarian pensioners into those who will receive Christmas supplements and those who will not receive for another year? Is this the fairest approach to handing out Christmas supplements to pensioners?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u178	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u179	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, Mrs. Zheleva, Mrs. Sidorova! By Decree No 253 of 16 November 2017, the Council of Ministers approved an additional transfer under the state social security budget for a lump sum payment to pensions for December. The additional amount is 40 BGN. and shall be paid to pensioners whose pension or sum of pensions, together with the supplements and compensations to them for December 2017 shall be up to 321 BGN. including, i.e. up to the country's poverty line for 2018. In assessing whether the total sum of the pension, together with the supplements and compensations to it, is up to 321 BGN. take into account the additions paid by the National Insurance Institute to the pension, e.g. the supplement under art. 84 of the Social Security Code, the so-called "indovish supplement," the addition to foreign assistance under art. 103 of the Social Security Code and others. The release of one-off supplements is not related to the social contribution of the persons, I would like to stress this. They shall not be granted on the basis of provisions of the Social Security Code governing the rights of persons in accordance with their contribution to the provision. The payment of these additional amounts is a way of helping pensioners with the lowest incomes, those whose pensions or the sum of pensions, along with the supplements and their compensations, are below the poverty line. In other words, these amounts have a certain social nature, but unlike social assistance, which carries out a social assessment of the income received by persons and their property, such a survey cannot be carried out when determining the allowances to pensions. With a view to maintaining the social nature of the payment, another assessment criterion has been adopted and this is the amount of pensions received, together with the supplements and compensations to a certain amount. In this case, this is the poverty line for 2018. The line of poverty for next year is adopted so that it does not result in only the update of pensions, with their recalculation from 1 July this year, pensioners who have received Easter supplements will drop out and will not receive the so-called Christmas supplements. I would like to stress that this criterion is not new. With the poverty line, the payment of the so-called Christmases and the Velican supplements was made for the last four years. I believe that this approach ensures equal treatment of persons with equal pension income, which makes it the fairest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u180	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a line to the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, your answer has been expected. Yes, Christmas supplements are traditionally paid on the basis of the poverty line. The answer was expected, but we could not help but ask this question and not ask: why did you allow another injustice to the pensioners this year and thus increase the opposition of different groups of pensioners, although there were promises of a differentiated payment of Christmas supplements to suppress the discontent of the people, for increasing by a significantly higher percentage of one pension and others by only 2.4%? Another 4900 with the huge pension of about 257 BGN on average. They didn't get a penny. You could have made these Christmas supplements so that at least these people would get a minimum amount, but still compensate for what happened this year - another unfair attitude towards some of the pensioners. They received instead an explanation for a confused law. The pensioners in question will receive this increase only in July next year. It is clear that whether they will receive 40 BGN or 100 BGN, the pensions for the majority are humiliatingly low. I have listened carefully to your answer, but I will ask you to explain to me more briefly and clearly because I, when I go to the reception room, the elderly with 321.50 BGN. They ask me, "Why won't we get one?" I can't give that answer. For me this is unfair and I hope next year, although for them this will be a long period of time with a low pension, this injustice will be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u182	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, you can have the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva, for treating my response. I will not hide, and I have publicly stated that estimates have been made for differentiated payment of the amounts of Christmas supplements. In order to overcome in any way that one part of the pensioners who were at a minimum amount of pension received a significant increase in the change in the Social Security Code, which took place from 1 July and from 1 October, the two steps which carried out the minimum pension for insurance service and age of 200 BGN, but it turned out that there are purely technical and information problems that do not guarantee greater justice of this differentiated distribution of the amounts of insurance contributions, for this was preserved the approach that is applied for several years and which sets foot on an objective criterion the official line of poverty. When not all receive any payment, meaning there is a limit, there is always an effect on this limit, that is, those who are a little over the border, as you mentioned, with a penny they don't even get, but when there is a limit there is also this effect that there is no way to overcome, so we step on something that is objective, something that is official, something that has been applied in the years, although, once again, we have made an experience this year, but perhaps the time has not been enough to convince ourselves that what can be proposed as new is fairer than what is traditionally applied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u184	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question of the MP Georgi Gokov to Minister Petkov. It is about the shortage of qualified labour, which will be one of the main problems for the Bulgarian labour market in 2018. This is how Mr. Gokov formulated the question. You're welcome to develop it from the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u185	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The reason for my question, Mr. Minister, is the recently presented by the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry research on business climate. It is called an economic survey 2018 and has been carried out for 25 years by Europeans. The latter is among the 50 000 companies from 23 countries, for Bulgaria this is the 19th consecutive survey and was conducted among private companies, members of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, 602 companies from all areas where the expectations of the business in Bulgaria for 2018 are presented on several parameters, including business difficulties, but the problem is also known outside the framework of this survey. The conclusion here is that there is not enough quality labour and this will be a problem of the problems for Bulgarian enterprises and employers and in 2018. All large employers' organizations agree that the shortage of human resources is becoming an increasing brake for the development of the economy. Our economy continues to develop at a good pace. Just to clarify that it is not due to favourable conditions created by the government, but to external factors. There is already a serious shortage of skilled labour, and if urgent measures are not taken by the state, these labour market difficulties will soon become a crisis. The population of Bulgaria is melting and ageing, and at such a rate that even if you raise the retirement age, including more pensioners, the needs of the labour market will be difficult to meet. I am convinced that if, for the time being, we are talking about a shortage of qualified personnel and we do not take urgent measures, things will be out of control within 10 years, and there is very likely to be a shortage of the offered work at all. According to data from the National Statistical Institute by 2030, the population aged 20 to 64 will decrease from 3.7 to 3.8 million people, and provided that we increase employment to 75% and reduce unemployment to 5%, the future working Bulgarians will still be about 440 thousand less than in 2008. I will not deepen the issue in the direction of talking about emigration, about a demographic crisis, about a desperate reform of the education system. I ask the question straight as my time is up, and it is: what are your views and what will be the policy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to overcome the shortage of quality labour in the short and long term? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u186	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u187	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! The main task of the Bulgarian government in the field of employment policy is to achieve a better correlation between the demand and supply of labour and to limit the shortage of staff for qualified employment. More opportunities for training of unemployed and employed persons are envisaged. In the implementation of the Government's Management Programme, vocational training will be provided by 2021 with budgetary resources of at least 50 000 unemployed persons in job-seeking jobs. Include at least 400 young people in the dual training system, training in key competences of at least 4,000 employees in small and micro enterprises. By means of Operational Program "Human Resources Development" 100 000 job seekers and inactive persons from vulnerable groups in the labour market and 150 000 employed persons will be trained. In 2018, the direction of active labour market policy will be the training of the workforce. The state budget for active labour market policy will finance training of at least 11,000 unemployed people. Priority target groups will be long unemployed and unemployed without profession and qualifications, as well as other disadvantaged groups in the labour market. Trainings will be determined according to employers' needs and labour demand forecasts. The entire range of training opportunities will be provided for the acquisition of professional qualifications, training for key competences, training at the workplace in the form of internship and apprenticeship, training through work, the so-called "dual system" for unemployed persons and especially early dropouts from the educational system of young people. The development of individual regions will be supported by the implementation of regional training and employment programmes aimed at meeting labour needs in local activities. For the preparation of a skilled workforce, the opportunities of the Operational Programme will be used for Human Resources Development in the current programming period, with a planned resource of 322 million. lv. for sustainable integration into the labour market of 60 400 unemployed young people up to 29 years old. It is estimated that 270 million is planned. lv. training for the acquisition of professional qualifications and key competences, providing employment to 19,400 unemployed persons for their successful realization on the labour market. In 2018, a new scheme will be launched, with a budget of 80 million. BGN, which will help overcome regional disproportions in the labour market and increase the skills and employment of 10 000 unemployed and inactive persons from the regions with high unemployment rate. 145 million are at stake. lv. for training of 34 500 employed persons to acquire qualifications in professions or in key competences, as well as specific trainings and specialized foreign language trainings to overcome the shortage of qualified workforce for specific jobs. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from Five hundred thousand. lv. are designed for the development of management and business knowledge and skills to start self-employment and entrepreneurship. In order to overcome the shortage of a highly qualified workforce, solutions are sought by providing a workforce from third countries for professions for which there is a proven lack of staff and are included in a list established by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. A simplified procedure for issuing a blue card to the European Union has been introduced for these professions, as you know. To conclude, I would like to assure you once again that improving human capital and preparing qualified personnel with knowledge and skills corresponding to the needs of business is a major task in the work of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u188	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u189	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. Expected response as statistics. But despite the efforts you have mentioned here, and you are reporting on which you are talking, although there are measures in the management program of this government, I do not see much progress in the problem of labour shortages, on the contrary, it is deepening. The problem is relentlessly clear and has been knocking on our door for several years. Another question is whether the government for eight years, which I believe is a major factor in deepening this problem, is aware of its seriousness and are they capable of complex and adequate measures to limit the problem? Of course, I would like to explicitly point out to you that this problem is not only the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, although it is very serious about this ministry. I will not go further in this direction, because I and I, at the end of the development of the question, told you that I can talk about emigration, about the demographic crisis, about the desperately unreformed educational system, especially in its part of vocational education, and so on and so forth. I don't think that's necessary, because you know these problems. Mr. Minister, I would just like to remind you that a few weeks ago we adopted the state budget. Again, 73 million were allocated to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the National Employment Action Plan. BGN, if I'm not mistaken, and that money has been the same for years. I must tell you, however, that as they are the same, they are decreasing. They are diminishing because the minimum wage is raised and fewer people can be included in employment, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, training increases and fewer learners can be included in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u190	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Will you take an attitude? You're not gonna use the back. The next question is again from the MP Mr. Gokov on the supplement from the pension of a deceased husband or wife to pensions granted under Title I of the Social Security Code. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u191	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! I'm sorry, but there's been a lot of questions. Mr. Minister, the loss of a husband or wife, except that it is a difficult emotional moment, is also related to financial turmoil in the family, especially in Bulgaria, because pensions are extremely miserable.. there is nothing to hide, and when two people share the common costs, it is a little more bearable. It is therefore logical for the state to offer some compensation for the lost income and that it is aimed at the surviving husband and why not at the children and parents of the deceased. The Social Security Code and the Pension and Internship Ordinance regulate the terms and conditions for the implementation of this right to receive an addition from the spouse. At present, the pensioner is entitled to a supplement from the pension or the sum of the pensions received by the deceased spouse of 26.5%. A little bit of history. By 31 August 2011, the addition is 20 percent of the pension or the sum of the pensions that the deceased spouse received, then becomes 26.5 percent. On some good intentions and changes to the Social Security Code, it had to grow from 1 January to 31 December 2013. By 31 December 2014, the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. "35 percent', and until January 2015 40 percent. For some reason these changes were repealed in 2012 with a change in the Social Security Code and remained only as good intentions. I remember that they were very serious election promises of Borisov's first cabinet. I say "unknownly" because the public did not have the real motive for this decision. Now approaching 2018, and the size has not moved for almost seven years. We accept a budget, there we predict again a miserable increase in the pensions "3.8%," and there is no increase in the widow's supplement. I have a lot of people coming to my reception, outraged that this is not being done and considered unfair. There are also letters in this direction to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, to the Ombudsman, to you as social minister. The question, Minister: I have not heard a comment from you so far on this subject, so I asked you the question: what are your views and what will be the policy of the ministry on the topic of updating the size of these widow supplements? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u192	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Minister. The right to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u193	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, as you pointed out in your question, according to the provision of art. 84 of the Social Security Code, the pensioner shall be entitled to a supplement from the pension or the sum of pensions received by the deceased spouse of 26.5 per cent. This addition is determined by the deceased's personal pension and a similar survivor's pension is granted to replace the surviving spouse's reduced income, i.e. it is intended to assist him. Only persons who are retired may be paid and cannot be obtained together with a survivor's pension from the same successor. It is important to bear in mind that our legislation provides for an opportunity in cases where a husband is more favorable, that he may receive a survivor's pension from the deceased spouse, which, in the case of an heir, is 50 per cent, rather than receiving his personal pension and the so-called widowly supplement. This creates an opportunity for the surviving spouse to receive the pension, or the pension and the supplement according to which of the two options is more favourable to him. It should also be noted that, even after the changes of 2015, the latest substantial changes to the Social Security Code, our legislation retains the possibility of adding to the pension of the deceased spouse or spouse under art. 84 of the Social Security Code to be paid to the surviving spouse's pension regardless of its size, without applying the limit laid down in the Order of § 6, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Social Security Code, which defines the so-called pension rate. According to this provision, the maximum amount of the pensions awarded until 31 December 2018 without their additions shall be determined as from 1 July of each calendar year of 35 per cent and as from 1 July 2019. "40 percent of the maximum social security income for the same calendar year as determined by the Budget Act of the DEA. The amount received by pensioners as widow supplements grows annually with each update and since 2017. ..with the benefit of pensions. This is because employment pensions, including the pensions of a deceased spouse, are revalued annually from 1 July of each calendar year following the year of the pension award, with an increased percentage of the burden of the insurance service determined by the Act on the budget of the DEA for the relevant year. I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to look for an opportunity to raise the standard of living for elderly people, but I think it is of greater importance to provide opportunities for increasing the size of basic pensions. This was also one of the main objectives of the pension reform carried out in 2015 remains one of the main tasks of the government at the moment. I am convinced that with the implementation of the measures adopted, this will be gradually achieved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u194	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u195	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I'm taking your last words. You said: it is better to raise basic pensions. I absolutely and completely agree with you. Perhaps this is the best solution for Bulgarian pensioners, only it does not happen, and it does not happen... I'm not talking about you, you're less than a year's minister. I don't know exactly how much, but it's not much. For a long time people's pensions have not been adequate, so they bet on these Christmas supplements that we asked you about, these widowly supplements that can somehow improve their pensions. Therefore, from this point of view, I cannot say that I am pleased with your reply, although I am also aware that indirectly the milk supplements are increasing because they are indexed and the pension of the deceased husband. I'll give you a very naturalistic example. One family, for example, retired, the husband has been bumping his whole life, working in a responsible job to meet the standard of living in the family, while the wife has provided the household and stayed in a lower paid job. The husband received a very high pension and the wife received a very low pension. In light of the circumstances, the husband rests, and this woman, who was part of this family that they both built, has remained on such low incomes, and we grant her that she assumed in some way different responsibilities in the family, relying on a shared life when she retired. We're giving her these miserable, I think, 26.5%. I don't know, is that fair?! Because this way in Bulgaria, when one husband dies, the life for the other ends. Trust me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u196	Thank you, Mr. Gykov. Mr. Minister, will you use the right to the backrest?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u197	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Gokov! In addition to the answer I would say that over 7200 are pensioners who receive the so-called widowly supplement. Its size is, of course, different depending on the pension of the heir, of the deceased husband. In a pension of BGN 910 received, the amount of the widowly supplement is not symbolic. It may even be higher than the size of the basic pension. Regarding what you have developed in the matter and reminded of intentions to increase the size of the widow's supplement to 40 percent, this is about certain ratios in the pension system, which should not be ignored because I mentioned that there are also so-called inheritance pensions. They depend on the number of heirs. When the heir to the deceased husband or wife is one, he receives a percentage of the deceased husband's pension. Imagine if 40 percent is the widowly supplement, then the ratios in the pension system are violated. This is an expert commentary. Maybe I should stop there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u198	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy is from the National Representative Todor Bajchev about the number of Bulgarians who receive minimum wage as a wage. Welcome to our guests from Chiprovtsi, Georgi Damyanovo and Montana! You are lucky to be in control when the Minister of Labour and Social Policy answers questions of the MPs. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u199	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will address a topic that is painful for a large part of the Bulgarian society, namely the amount of minimum wage. More and more Bulgarians, unfortunately, declare that they receive a minimum wage as their wage. Given the current conditions of life, I believe that this is extremely insufficient for a normal life, but still Bulgaria belongs to the circle of countries that institutionally determine the amount of wages. In our case in Bulgaria this is done by a decree of the Council of Ministers, on which you are a member of the Council of Ministers and your work includes in the round of your duties the increase of the minimum wage. I understand that teamwork requires compliance with other ministers. I believe that you could be bolder in your wishes for an increase in salary. Moreover, by 2016 some 350,000 Bulgarians declared that they received the minimum wage as a salary. It is clear to everyone that wages fall behind compared to price increases. My question to you is this: what is the number of Bulgarians who receive the minimum wage as a wage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u200	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u201	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Baychev! The state participates in the regulation of payment processes by determining the minimum wage for the country, as well as the types of minimum amounts of additional wages. The fixed minimum wage amount is mandatory for a full-time and 8-hour working day and refers to all groups of workers employed under a contract, regardless of the form of ownership. Under the Labour Code, guarantees are provided for the payment of the wage of no less than the minimum wage, regardless of the employer's financial situation and the form of ownership. According to data from the National Statistical Institute, the number of persons employed on a contract of employment and full-time, appointed on a minimum salary, a basic salary for the second quarter of 2017 is 416 thousand 818 people. Here I will add that in the last one or two years due to the more significant increase in the growth of the minimum wage, this number is increasing. What I hope will be a fact next week, but is still a proposal, the Draft Decree of the Council of Ministers provides for a new amount of minimum wage for 2018 of BGN 510. and an increase of 10.9% compared to 2017, which will contribute to increasing the motivation of the workforce and reducing the risk of poverty among workers. I think this is a significant increase in the minimum wage offered by the government, but it is not only met by employers and trade unions. The new size will help us to strengthen the motivation for participation in the labour market and will increase the purchasing power of the lowest part of the employed. Here I will add that in 2018, gross domestic product growth of around 4% is envisaged. Expectations are for improvement of the business climate in the country, growth in exports, investments and employment, with stable macroeconomic indicators and labour demand being a prerequisite for an increase in income. Our expectations are to maintain the positive trend for an increase in the average wage that we have seen in recent years. I took the liberty of being a little more specific, but I think I have given a specific answer to your question on data from the National Statistical Institute. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Baychev, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! It is right to thank you for the correct answer that you gave, as some of the information I had in advance, but I did not ask it in the matter intentionally. I could develop your thesis with regard to the ratio of the minimum wage. I would say that in 9 of the 28 regions we have a negative trend in these nine regions, the minimum wage is 75% of the average wage, which means that in these regions people working get lower wages. On the other hand, according to the Statistical Institute, normal should be about 60%. I welcome the idea of increasing the minimum wage, as I believe this will lead to an increase in consumption. On the other hand, there are some studies of trade unions that show something else, namely "when the remuneration rises, strangely why does a shortage of personnel appear? For me, this means that normal ordinary people are tired of waiting and have already emigrated. For this reason, we are beginning to experience a shortage of footage. At the same time, however, you are right that this will lead to an increase in investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u204	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Will you use the right to the back? No. The next question to Minister Petkov is from the MP Georgi Gokov on the introduction of the maximum amount of unemployment benefits. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! I'm going on with my questions. In the Law on the Budget of the State Social Security of 2018, in art. 12 an upper limit on the amount of unemployment benefits has been introduced. For 2018 a daily maximum amount of the unemployment benefit was fixed for BGN 74,29. This limit, which sets a daily maximum amount of these 74,29 BGN, is a genius idea and is part of the ideas of the ruling majority to reduce costs. However, the principles of insurance ensure that compensation is not linked to the financial capacity of the State but to the contribution of insurance. We need to understand compensation as insurance money, not as money that the state, with any favor on its part, grants. It's the money that's being paid to the Unemployment Fund. Last but not least, compensation must replace labour income. Any restriction in my opinion is unacceptable. Such a restriction will inevitably reflect on the unemployment benefits of those Bulgarians who have been provided in other Member States of the European Union and should be paid in Bulgaria. For them, the maximum amount entered will mean reducing their benefits. Such an approach to me is strange, and I never really understood the real reasons for this restriction. Now my question is different. The question is: how would such a change correspond to Bulgaria's commitments within the framework of the mechanisms for coordination of social security systems established at European level? Is such a restriction a violation of the principles of this coordination and violation of the rights of Bulgarian citizens who have been provided in accordance with the regulatory requirements of the countries in which they worked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u206	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u207	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable fellow ministers, dear Mr. Gokov! European Regulations on the Coordination of Social Security Systems aim to coordinate national legislation in the field of social security and not to harmonise them. A basic principle in Regulation 883 of 2004 on the coordination of social security systems is that only one legislation applies to one person. The rules under which this applicable legislation is laid down are contained in Title 2 of Reglamette 883 of 2004, as the basic rule in that regulation, that, if a person is engaged or self-employed in one Member State, the legislation of that Member State shall apply to him. Rules laying down the applicable legislation on the assessment of the right and the calculation of the amount of the previous unemployment benefit are laid down in Chapter 6 of Regulation 883. For Bulgarian citizens who worked in other EU Member States and who are entitled to monetary unemployment benefit, there are the following options. First, the monetary unemployment benefit of a Bulgarian citizen who has an internship in Bulgaria, but his last employment is in another Member State of the European Union, is assessed entirely by foreign law both in terms of law and in terms of his term and size. In this regard, the Bulgarian citizen will receive the full amount provided for in the foreign legislation without applying the provisions of the Bulgarian law. Thus, the requirements for minimum and maximum amount of monetary unemployment benefit laid down in the Social Security Code shall not apply to that person. Second hypothesis. In calculating the amount of the monetary unemployment allowance of a Bulgarian citizen who worked in a Member State of the European Union, but his last employment is in Bulgaria, the provision of art. 62, § 1 of Regulation 883. According to that provision, the competent institution of a Member State whose legislation provides for the calculation of benefits to be based on the amount of the previous wage or professional income, such as Bulgaria, takes account of an exceptional remuneration or the professional income received by the person concerned in his last employment or as an independent employee under that legislation. Therefore, in calculating the amount of compensation, as provided for in this provision, only the income received by the person during his last work in Bulgaria under the Bulgarian legislation shall be taken into account. Therefore, in respect of this Bulgarian citizen all the rules laid down in the Code on Social Security regarding the amount of monetary unemployment benefit are applied, which is determined entirely on the basis of the insurance income of the person in Bulgaria. The third option is provided for a Bulgarian citizen who has worked in another Member State of the European Union, but during his last employment he has resided in Bulgaria and is registered as an unemployed person in Bulgaria without exercising and being provided under Bulgarian law, that is to say he does not pursue work in Bulgaria. This person is entitled to unemployment benefit because during his last employment he resided in Bulgaria, which is a Member State of the European Union. The amount of compensation in this case shall be on the basis of art. Art. 62, § 3, in conjunction with art. 65, p. 5 point (a) of the Regulation shall be calculated taking into account the income from the Member State during its last employment, but in accordance with the rules for calculation, including the minimum and maximum amounts laid down in the Bulgarian legislation. This is in full compliance with the provision cited under which the unemployed person receives compensation in accordance with the legislation of the Member State of residence, as if that legislation was applied to him during his last activity as employed or self-employed. In this regard, I would like to point out that the setting of a maximum daily amount of monetary unemployment benefit does not violate the rights of the persons provided for in the Regulation, but, on the contrary, ensures a level playing field between those who have engaged in the work and have been subject to insurance only in Bulgaria and those who have periods of insurance in other Member States of the European Union. Thus, one of the basic principles of the coordination regulations on equal treatment under which persons receive the same benefits and have the same obligations under the legislation of any Member State as their nationals is respected. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u208	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I thank you for your expert and good answer to the question. At least we have clarified what this is about, because the people in their majority of those who work abroad and return to Bulgaria are not aware of what comes with this maximum amount of daily compensation in Bulgaria. For the three hypotheses, it's good. I think you're right. However, I ask the question in principle and I think from a political point of view that this is unfair because, when these people received insurance in a foreign country, they did not comply with the fact that in Bulgaria the National Assembly will set the maximum amount of compensation. In fact, the maximum amount of compensation, which, by the way, of the pensioners and the minimum amounts of unemployment benefit, is seen huge, almost colossal. a day, and it is nothing more than the maximum amount that they can receive as an unemployment benefit, those providing the maximum insurance income in Bulgaria - BGN 2600 or 60% of it - this is BGN 1560. compensation monthly, or BGN 74,29 daily. You said this was not a violation of Regulation 883 of 2004 and we are not obliged to harmonise our legislation in this case. I agree with you, but there is another moment, only I don't have the time to develop it. Don't you think that this way we make the Bulgarians not return to Bulgaria, and until the last time they are at risk of unemployment, they should stay in the country concerned and want to receive unemployment benefits and not return to Bulgaria to get it and look for work more peacefully here? I think we should think about it this way when we introduce such restrictions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u210	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, will you use the right to dodge? No. Thank you for your comprehensive answers, Mr. Minister. That concludes the questions to Minister Petkov. We are moving on to the questions to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev. The first question is from the MP Todor Bajchev and is about the concrete measures to combat domestic crime, which have been implemented at present. Here you are, Mr. Baychev, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, fellow MPs! Domestic crime on the territory of our country is of a large extent that citizens hardly understand and understand, and remain with the wrong impression, I hope the state does not counteract. Often in meetings in my electoral district, they ask me: why has the state abdicated, why not take any measures? Basically, people feel defenseless to criminals, while, contrary to that, criminals themselves are created an unnecessary false sense of self-esteem and a sense of impunity. That is why I would like to ask if the Ministry of Interior is pursuing a consistent policy regarding domestic crime? Have various measures been identified that will help increase the effectiveness of police authorities in preventing domestic crime and their detection? I believe, Mr. Minister, and I say it very well that there is a will of the Ministry of Interior to do everything possible to resolve these problems, but nevertheless the processes are slow and sluggish. When I ask you this question, in the answer I would like to hear not only the minister, but also the man Radev. My question to you is this: what are the specific measures to combat domestic crime that are being implemented at this time?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u212	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Dear Minister, you are entitled to an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u213	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Baychev! Among the main priorities of the public order and security sector in the Programme of Government Management for 2017 is improvement of activity, prevention and countering conventional crime. I agree with you, the topic is always up to date at least so far. Maintaining sustainable results in terms of the growth of regional crime detection and reducing their number is a long-term goal for the Ministry of Interior. Measures taken. I'm only going to list a few of you to convince you of what we're doing. First of all, the amendments to the Ministry of Interior Act extend the powers of persons working in employment, who will be able to carry out security of sites, as well as to assist in guarding the state border, activities in the territorial service of the population. Another capacity we're using. Secondly, the Draft for a new Private Security Act has been drawn up. I think he's already in Parliament at second reading. The aim is to mobilise the resource of increasing private security guards, fight against conventional crime and together with this clear distinction between the functions of the Ministry of Interior and these colleagues. Thirdly, a Plan for the period 2017 - 2018, with specific managers, deadlines, implementation, has been established to counter conventional crime. The aim is to increase the security of citizens, reduce and limit crime against the person and property. The emphasis shall be placed on preventive activities and on improving professional qualifications, including police officers. Fourth, there are established rules for public order protection and countering conventional crime in settlements where there is no police presence. The rules provide for a monthly analysis and assessment of the operational situation on certain indicators and specialized police operations to be carried out. Once again, I stress where there is no police presence. Next. Establishment of permanently active teams of senior officials to organise, coordinate and control police activities to curb conventional crime in the country. Next. The Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior established an organization for the formation of the so-called mobile teams of security, criminal and economic police officers who are scheduled to visit problematic settlements, meet with local authorities and receive citizens where there are no permanent ones. That's why they're mobile. Only in the period 4 May, i.e. since we entered power, the government of Mr. Borisov has been appointed a total I somewhere yesterday said. "1100, but in fact are 1342, that is constantly increasing and that is the current number, employees with police powers. The 1,000 that were supposed to be in all the settlements are now 1342. On the other hand, in connection with the entry into force of the month of January 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] amending Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in respect of the implementation of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] laying down detailed rules for the implementation of Council Regulation (EC) It is planned to double the annual capacity of the Ministry of Interior Academy for training employees. That's in our plan. Next, a three-year plan 2016 is implemented, approved by the National Council for Crime Prevention with five priorities. Over 110 by memory, there are measures written there. The main ones are against fraud that is being committed, including and currently continue the telephone abuse of adults and self-living people. Finally, with the aim of primary prevention of child crime, the ministry is involved in active development of all national programmes. In the back, I'll tell you a few other numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u214	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Baychev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u215	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! First, to thank Minister Radev for the comprehensive answer. However, I will also allow myself to remind you of a few more measures that I have listened to very carefully, but I have not noticed that they have been taken. With regard to competitions, if possible, to be appointed and to be carried out more quickly, as there are many districts on the territory of Burgas, whose constituency is mine, which continue to have unoccupied seats as a result of the retirement of employees and no new appointments. The other thing that I could correctly remind you of is video surveillance. It has been shown that where there is video surveillance, crime is rapidly declining. True, it moves to a neighboring area where there is no video surveillance, but still for the area for which video surveillance is organised, security increases by nearly 90%, and also for increasing the qualification of police officers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u216	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u217	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Baichev, I read you some of these things, but there are many other details behind them. In short, I'll answer you, actually, with a few numbers. In January 2017 there was a decline in crime in general. What are the numbers? Ninety-six thousand twenty-five crimes versus ninety-nine, i.e. a reduction of 3.8% for 2016. The most significant decline was found in assaults against motor vehicles One more thing to tell you, even before I respond specifically to what you asked me to do. For this large part of the battle, preventive action is very important. Here I want to remind you only to hear it and the citizens to have the mood. The Ministry of Interior finally comes, we control, we try to fight the consequences, however, and before that for those who have become criminals or break the law, there are many other mechanisms that should happen or they should help the family, the school. And now, with one mechanism of the Ministry of Education and Science, we were able to get into school literally, if that's a good word, and make sure they get into class over 17,000. 500, in my opinion, potential criminals, children who, in time, had not entered there, of course, most of them from minorities, but they are inside. This is much more important. Because we show up at the end. You're giving me good attention to crime, thank you for that. Yeah, well, before that all these things have to be done. Specifically for the competitions. This process can't be stopped anymore. There are rules that have to come in six months. People wonder: The competitions have passed, they are not there yet. They're gone because they're going to the Academy for six months. That's one problem. Then you ask me about the unoccupied ones. Yeah, well, there was a warrant I had canceled, maybe in early December it was. Not the appointment of the above levels, but only those below who have police functions to satisfy. That's where the most holiday seats were. Besides, we don't hire everyone unoccupied. We'll leave about 5% willing. It's a healing device for the system. The last one, for the cameras. I absolutely agree with you. The good example, by the way, is Burgas and I advise all local authorities to do so, to help us put cameras themselves, we tie them into systems. Today, in a moment, I'm going to open a system like this in Sofia. They give us their cameras, we tie them together with our cameras and make centers. This may be the future of this observation, and it really helps to reduce domestic crime.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u218	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is again by the MP Mr. Bajchev and is about the drivers of the vehicle with more than three criminal decrees for violations under the Road Traffic Act. The question is: what is the rate of administrative measures imposed by the DMV authorities in view of the so-called higher production? You have the floor to expose the question, Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u219	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, there was a recent disaster in which a young girl died. My condolences to family and friends that we concern this topic and include it, but, unfortunately for all of us, the war on Bulgarian roads does not stop. The subject is painful and up-to-date given the recent road accidents and the sacrifices we are making as a society. At the same time, under the current Road Traffic Act, the authorities of the Ministry of Interior have the power to impose forced administrative measures, including by seizure of a driving licence to the guilty drivers for the period of administrative criminal proceedings until their guilt is clarified. The latter is fully applicable and is an adequate measure for the temporary limitation of precisely such unscrupulous drivers who have multiple acts to establish administrative infringements, but whose criminal decrees for subjective reasons have not entered into force and for an unjustified length of time. The question of their guilt remains controversial, and they continue to drive motor vehicles. Respectfully, what is the percentage of forced administrative measures imposed by the DMV authorities, and on the basis of how many of these measures are pre-trial proceedings under the Criminal Code for possible crimes committed for these offences? In this sense, my question to you is: what is the number of drivers with three or more non-violent criminal decrees for violation of the Road Traffic Act and the percentage of administrative measures imposed by the DMV authorities in view of the so-called higher proceedings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u220	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u221	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Baychev, thank you again. Again, a topic that is within the reach of the Ministry of Interior's leadership and of all citizens every day, watching only television. I'll read it slowly just for you to be clear. The Road Traffic Act does not provide for the imposition of a forced administrative measure to withdraw a driving licence from a driver who has not been served with a criminal claim. He doesn't see that coming! It's one, two, three, it doesn't even matter. I understand what you're saying. You are telling me, if you allow me to translate your question: "Those who break the most, can't we do something, including this way? I'm sorry, we're only trying and doing it within the framework of the Law. And we'd like to, and we've even done this measure, you know, we started and said it on the edge of the Law, we'll lead them if we have to in the respective precincts those who often break, just and only force them not to do it, not to have those victims on the road, less injured and so on. But we don't have that kind of authority in this case. Here's what else we've done with action taken by the Ministry of Interior. This automated information system provides the following three options for police officers: - to make through remote access workstations the tablets that are in the cars, from the point of reference, except that we fine them with the driver's discipline tickets can check what this is; - second, print out and hand out electronic slips immediately, on the spot; - third, temporarily withdraw driving licences for drivers who drive a motor vehicle with a fine imposed, unpaid during the period of voluntary payment. Until payment of the fine, however. That's all we can do. That's what it was written by MPs, and when I was here, that's how we voted. Another statistic I'm gonna finish with. According to central police statistics, by the end of November 2017 under art. 342c "This is driving, during the period of administrative punishment 3206 crimes were registered, compared to 3556 last year. That's about a 10-percent difference. Pretty much the same thing, assuming that 10% isn't that much, nothing changes. What wonders we don't do literally to make those who break the most, as you say, one that second time, that third time, but that allows us the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u222	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like a line? You don't want to. Accordingly, there will be no duplicate. Thank you for the participation of Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions and questions to Nikolay Nankov the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the MP Alexander Pawnov on non-negotiable funds from GUSV EAD, subcontractors. Please, Mr. Pawnov, ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u223	Dear Madam President, dear diluted colleagues, dear Minister! On my reception day as a Member of the National Assembly, I was visited by a group of citizens who have been subcontractors of the Executive Board of the Board of Directors, of an object built along the line of emergency reconstruction works. The site was put into operation more than two years ago. As chief contractor, Gusv has received 100% of the financial resources, but has not paid off its subcontractors. In particular, it is about the following: In August 2014, a catastrophic flood destroyed the bridge in the village of Pervenets, Rodopi municipality. As soon as the Council of Ministers decreed No 225 of 22 August 2014 a target financial contribution was provided for the urgent reconstruction of the destroyed bridge. The site was awarded to GUSV as chief contractor at the end of September of the same year. A contract was signed between the company and the municipality of Rodopi. Contracts and subcontractors are concluded, advances have been translated and the task has been successfully completed within a very short period of 65 days. On 15 December 2014, Act No 15 was signed for adoption of the built bridge, after which the investor of the municipality of Rodopi, on 15 January 2015, with an invoice No 101234 was translated into GUSV, and the other funds under the contract amounting to BGN 53 266. without VAT. However, these funds have been diverted from GWW for other purposes and the subcontractors of the bridge, including the designer, have been waiting for more than two years to be paid to them. Invitations for a meeting with the funds diverted from GUSV "EAD" have been diverted. As a result, part of the subcontractors filed cases against the company, convicted it, and have issued executive sheets on which, as is known, they also flow and criminal interest. In support of the above, I provide you with an official reference from the management of the Management Board from 24 November 2015 for the amounts owed to the subcontractors, as well as three executive lists on the cases won against the Board of Directors. My question to you is this: will you ensure that the decisions of the court and of the contractors are implemented to pay their contractual financial resources and will administrative and financial responsibility be sought by the guilty officials?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u224	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u225	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Pawnov, the issue concerns trade relations relating to the implementation of a contract concluded after a contract has been won on 25 September 2014. Project and emergency construction of concrete, steel road bridge over the river Verlishtitsa on road 2250 Brestovitsa Plovdiv. The site was handed over by a constructive act, Model 15, signed on 15 December the same year by the contractor GUSV "AD," and the contracting entity Municipality of Rodopi, gr. Plovdiv. For the implementation of part of the ancillary activities, GWSV EAD used subcontractors and the scope of these activities was regulated in the contracts signed with them. On the basis of the contract for the implementation of the site and the Construction Act, Model 15 were signed by the management of the company, represented at that time by Mr. Radoslav Peshlevski, Executive Director. According to data from the Company at that time, the relevant protocols for accepting the work of subcontractors in their contracts were not drawn up and formed. According to GUSV, it is provided information that advance payments of 80% of the value of the contracts were made to subcontractors. These payments, at the moment, are still reflected as "advanced" to them, as the bilateral signed protocols between the parties are missing, respectively, cannot be documented as to what is the volume and quality of the works carried out. After the introduction into operation of the bridge facility Rodopi Municipality, gr. Plovdiv, has twice made requests to GUSV "EAD" for the removal of defects resulting from the work of subcontractors. According to the data presented, due to the failure of the respective sub-contractors companies, GUSV EAD has carried out the repairs at its own expense. Since there are no duly shaped documents to be used as duly evidence to satisfy counterclaims, the current management of GWSV EAD has not been able to make other payments. In this case, it concerns trade relations between different companies acting as freely Contracting Parties. In view of this fact, subcontractors whose claims are not satisfied should, in the event of documentary evidence and especially those having executive sheets issued, as claimed by judicial decisions, submit them to the Board of Directors with a view to meeting them. By letter of the subsidiary minister, the company's current management was informed that it should carry out a thorough examination of the documents available and submit its observations on the outstanding estimated relations relating to this contract and the possibilities for closing the case after you asked your question. With regard to the part of a question concerning the demand for administrative and financial liability, please refer to the circumstances referred to above, namely the fact that the implementation actions and documentary clearance of the results of the contracts are carried out by another guide and that there is currently a certain factual and documentary uncertainty about the relationship that arose at the time, which must first be overcome. Administrative criminal and financial liability may be sought only in the cases expressly provided for by law in the appropriate order. There are currently no legal prerequisites and grounds for seeking such liability from the company's current management. What it can be considered responsible for is to establish the exact and proven amount of the payments due and, if any, as you claim, we will consider in the ministry the judicial decisions after they are granted, to serve them as a good trader, in whatever direction are the instructions given by me as a minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u226	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u227	Dear Minister, I have with me the constitutional acts No 15 to establish the suitability for acceptance of the construction. I have also presented to you the Model No 16 Protocol establishing the suitability for use of the construction, which states that at its meeting the conclusion is that: "There are no unfinished and unfinished construction works according to the construction contracts. I won't! The implementation of the structure, tied materials and articles, installed installations, technological lines and other machinery and equipment are in accordance with the relevant technical regulations, as demonstrated by the documents submitted. I'm guessing that's in GUSW? On the other hand, he finally said:.............................................................................................. In addition, I have also given you three executive lists, I should even tell you that, unfortunately, the designer has already died, waited two years, and the others are already under interest. Interest must be paid by GUSW, so let's not let state money flow in this direction. I believe that with your intervention this dispute will be resolved and will stop the accumulation of new interest to be paid by the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. You're holding back from the back, Minister Nankov. We are going to ask the National Representative Aleksandar Paunov about the difficult financial situation of the main management of construction and reconstruction. Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u229	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Minister, the sole shareholder company of the Ministry of Construction and Reconstruction from 30 December 2011 with capital of 176 million was created by Order No 4 of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. 173,000. lv. and is the beneficiary of State-owned enterprise Construction and Recovery and the closed construction troops in 2000. Today's financial situation of GUSV is very difficult. The balance sheet and balance sheet losses in accordance with the 2016 financial statement amount to 9 million. Twenty-three thousand. BGN, and uncovered losses from the past years are 91 million. 818 thousand. lv. or total losses are around 100 million. lv. The long-term tangible assets of 363 in 2012 decreased to 205 pieces as a result of sales made by the company and private judicial contractors. Nevertheless, it can be concluded that sales revenues and minor construction activities cannot provide sufficient financial resources to GWSV, to cover its obligation and the normal functioning of the company. Given that the company's bank accounts and all the automotive and construction machinery are secured by creditors and 104 real estates are subject to mortgages and foreclosures, essentially GUSV "EAD," have been brought to a state of awake coma. This is skillfully used by unscrupulous creditors, not without the help of private court contractors, to sell very low prices of fixed tangible assets. My question to you is: how far has the investigation of the activities of GUSV................................................................................................... been reached?.................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u231	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Pawnov! In order to get the right idea of the state of GUSB, the reasons for it and the possible approaches to its change, it is necessary to examine the history of its occurrence, development. This has to do with the actions of many governments for the record, to be honest. In the period from its establishment until the transformation of the Company in 2011, when it existed in the form of State-owned company Construction and Recovery, the results of its activities deteriorated, the debts and the value of unfinished production increased as a result of the difficulties that the company suffered to complete the construction sites that started. The additional costs resulting from the obligation to protect the huge building fund of barracks are also a burden. In addition to the structure of the assets suggesting costs and low to no profitability, the reasons for the negative trend expressed include - Launching the implementation of many investment, construction sites and activities inadequate with the company's capacity and market conditions. The result was not to transmit them within the time limit and to file multiple proceedings against the undertaking. - conclusion of unsuccessful contracts with investors, subcontractors and other counterparties, with negotiated prices, close or below cost. - A large number of subcontractors have also been used that have paid in full, while the guarantee liability and the risk of transmission of the construction sites has remained at the expense of the contractor, I refer to the commercial company preceded by the State enterprise Construction and Recovery and a number of other reasons. During that period, the State-owned enterprise, Construction and Recovery, was deprived of some of its most savoury real estate and their buyers made substantial profits from the transactions. One such deal is the sale of objects in G.K. In Varna, blocks from A to 3 with shops and garages with a total built-up area of 23 thousand. 981 sq. M., realised in 2007, for which 17 million were received 657 thousand. £770. from one investor at a selling price of 340 euros per square meter and cost of 386 euros per square meter. In the absence of any further comments on the Opening Decision, the Commission concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. leva. I'm talking about one deal, tens of 'em, hundreds of 'em. The competent institutions have repeatedly been alerted to the misplaced work of some private judicial contractors, which, taking advantage of incompleteness in the legislative framework, are selling at reduced prices of property and significantly undermine the company's interests and those of the State as the main creditor for public and state claims by the Company. For its extremely difficult financial situation also contribute transactions to acquire expensive, unusable equipment and not meeting the needs of the enterprise and not including assets in the construction work. After this extremely difficult period over the years, several attempts have been made to seek a solution. In 2011, for the purpose of greater operational autonomy, the State-owned company "Structural Forces' was converted into a single commercial company. The production and management structure has been changed, staff optimized, steps have been taken to relieve unnecessary assets, so the number as quantity is not so defining. They were really unnecessary for the company's activities, they were concluded outside legal agreements with creditors, attempts were made to close the construction of large sites and hand over them to investors. Nevertheless, the company's debts and accumulated losses from previous periods remain. At the request of the principal, the operational management has developed and adopted a curative program of the Management Board. A ministry working group that carried out an inspection of the Company's activities for the period 2015 - 2016 gave recommendations to the Company regarding the updating of existing rules and procedures. In general, in the current situation, it is necessary to carry out a comprehensive and thorough analysis relating to the identification of the individual and the state of the assets, their objective value, to assess the prospects for the realization of some of them so as to cover debts and to use the rest economically effectively so that the Company finds its place in economic life and brings income. It is in this direction that the efforts of the management and the sub-departmental directorates working with it in an operational way. It must be made clear that a promise of immediate and significant improvement cannot be made. Multiple combined factors dating back decades are at the heart of the current problems, which you are also well aware of. In this sense, GUSW represents a heavy legacy with expressed problems. To the question of solving the problems of this specific organisation there is no simple answer and there is no way to expect them to be solved within months. Hard work is needed, including the development of a restructuring plan that clearly distinguishes the activities of subordinate entities. What I can assure you is that on an operational level is constantly working towards a solution for the future of GUSW. There may be clarity on it after seeing the results of the in-depth analysis on which this guide continues to work. You know, it's changed. Efforts at operational level still show some improvement in the situation. A few numbers, that's what I'm graduating with. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] For example, while at 30 December 2016, the accumulated loss was 92 million. 367 thousand. As of September 30, 2017, BGN 91 million. 818 thousand. BGN, i.e. 549 less. The undertaking's obligations on 30 June 2009 amounted to 96 million. Notice.. 96 million. 200,000. BGN, for comparison on 30 September 2017, they were 28 million. 400,000. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure $800,000. lv. Down. All of this can be seen as the first positive signal and possible trend towards future recovery of the undertaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u232	Thank you, Minister Nankov, you will have the opportunity to proceed with the answer after the two supplementary questions that the People's Representative Mr. Pawnov will ask you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u233	Mr. Minister, there are quite serious doubts that the Company is seeking to be bankrupt and sold out at a priceless price. I'll give you two examples. The best production base of GUSV is a base of 167 decares and 53 buildings built with a tax assessment of 13 million. Three hundred and seventy thousand. BGN was sold in May 2015 for 2 million. 646 thousand. lv. by private court contractors. The loss paid was 11 million. lv. The second similar case with the sale of land property of the Company in the region of Kremikovtsi, the locality of Krajja. £860. It was sold on 29 August 2016 by a private court contractor to a certain buyer for the sum of 31 thousand. 500 BGN, the loss for the company amounted to 477 thousand. BGN 360. and this has happened despite the fact that a year before that on 3 July 2015 in the Official Journal of the European Union is a promulgated amendment of art. 485, para. 2 of the GPC, according to which the starting price on public sale cannot be lower than the tax valuation of the property. My question to you is this: as the principal of the Company, have these two cases been investigated, why and by whom, and in the service of someone's private interests is violated the Law to the detriment of the Company and the State? Is the order of the private bailiff to sell the real estate to buyers under appeal and, if not, what is the reason for this? What administrative and financial sanctions have you imposed on the guilty persons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u234	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u235	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Pawnov! The first one I didn't call "sanction," the step was to change the manual, as these are data you export from previous manuals. Secondly, we have appointed an internal audit to prove whether there are hypotheses and cases that you are exporting to confirm by independent financial auditors whether there is a sale of properties below theirs, in this case we are talking about a tax, not a market, tax assessment? I mentioned that the heavy financial and not only condition of the Society is really at stake as a genies years back in time. I only mentioned one deal in Varna. Over 140 are similar transactions in which the Company was involved in the construction of assets and selling them at times below market prices, piling up huge obligations to subcontractors and creditors, even so it has come to the point that in 2015 the company, you know is one of the largest, currently the largest creditor of the state, through the National Revenue Agency, launched a procedure, you are aware of, in bankruptcy, the procedure has not yet been completed. All attempts, I also mentioned the figure and the difference of 67 million from 96 to 27 800 on debts to creditors, including the state, which were reduced, you see 67 million within eight to nine years, precisely because of the fact that they were accumulated due to the conclusion of unfavorable transactions. The company was forced back in the years to operate on the property market with the sale of assets. That is why the internal audit verification will establish their legality, if there are violations, of course, there are competent authorities that establish and the violations of the internal audit we will remove administrative ones if it is confirmed. Such were our signals, by the way, as a guide to carrying out transactions on their tax assessment, but the first step I mentioned and took was a change of leadership. I think it's the most normal thing, and the second is the appointment of this competent audit by independent financial auditors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u236	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here you are, Mr. Pawnov, to express your attitude to the Minister's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u237	Minister, you and I have no difference in terms of the fact that I believe the Company is looting itself with these sales and this must stop, and those who have cooperated in this plunder must bear the appropriate responsibility. I hope that you, as a principal, will develop this policy very consistently. There's something else I'd like to say. It should be noted that the registered capital of the Company still represents a large volume of ownership and significantly exceeds the market value of the total accumulated debts. Therefore it is necessary to preserve GUSV AD as a company with 96 years of history and can be organized a healing plan within a few months to be saved. It should include emergency reconstruction activities for which GUSV AD has in stock the available inventory and constructions, and there is also an opportunity to organize professional training of unemployed young people, which will be a good move to reduce unemployment, especially from the Roma population. I believe that you, as minister and principal, will make every effort to save the Company. I will continue with this activity to monitor how this state enterprise is developing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. We come to a question from the National Representative Teodora Georgieva on the development and approval of the cadastral map and the cadastral registers for the territory of the Student City and the activity of an interdepartmental working group for carrying out a comprehensive analysis of the legal and labour planning status of the properties in the place of the Student City. Here you are, dear Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, for five years there has been no new draft of the cadastral map and cadastral registers for the territory of the Student City, which makes it difficult to work and violate the rights of both municipal and regional administration and owners of private terrains. The lack of a cadastral map makes it impossible to complete the detailed planning of the area. In view of the above, please answer me what is the movement on the cadastral map of Student City, at what stage is it, what actions are to be carried out and what are the deadlines for the approval of the cadastral map of the locality "Student City"? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u240	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u241	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Georgieva! In the current provisions of the Cadastral and Property Register Act (CIP) there is no legal framework for the procedure when the approval order has been withdrawn for part of the territory, as is the case in the Student City, for which the opening of the procedure has been announced. In this sense, common rules should be applied by analogy to the rules of the approval procedure by guaranteeing the rights of the persons concerned, the accuracy and actuality of the cadastral map and the cadastral registers. Due to the last long period of time since the initiation of this procedure until the adoption of the partial 2012 procedure until the Executive Director's order was revoked in the same November of the year, it is necessary to set a new deadline for the inquiry of the owners and for the recording of the limits they mark. These actions of the contractor and the time limit for them should be announced in the Official Journal of the European Union as the procedure is opened under art. 35 of the Law on Cadastral and Property Register. For the completion of the procedure for the creation of a cadastral map and cadastral registers of the part of the region "Studentski" i.e. a municipality for which the order for approval of the cadastral map and cadastral registers has been withdrawn in 2012, the following technical activities need to be carried out: 1. To individualize the properties of the state and of the municipality according to the decisions of the Interdepartmental Group established by order of 11 May 2015 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and to separate their borders by means of documents of ownership or by meaning on the spot. 2. Reflecting the effective judicial decisions in matters of a legal and legal nature. 3. Reflection of data from the additional documents submitted for the ownership of natural and legal persons received after the withdrawal of the approval order, including with regard to borders, newly built buildings and stand-alone sites. The Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency has conducted the procedure for completing and approving the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers for the part of the territory of the region of Studentski, Sofia Municipality, without Cadastral Map. On 12 December this year, a contract was concluded with a contractor, Geoplan project, state-owned company, with subject: "Acts to complete a procedure for the establishment of a Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers for the part of the territory of the Student Region, Sofia Municipality, for which by order of 10 July 2012, the Executive Director of the Geodesy Agency, Cartography and Cadastral Registers for the approval of the Cadastral Map and Cadastral Registers has been withdrawn. The contract covers the following technical activities: - Check and update of accepted Cadastral map and cadastral registers; - Enquiry of the owners; - Measurement of new, including marked real estate boundaries; - Cooperation of the Interdepartmental Group established by Order of 11 May 2015 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria with regard to the establishment of the boundaries of real estate municipal state property is a little difficult work with the group at the moment, and finally: - Reflection of objections and changes to the declared under art. 46 of the Cadastre Act and the property register Cadastral map and cadastral register for the part of the district of Studentski, Sofia Municipality, with withdrawn cadastral map. The implementation period shall be six months, including the time necessary to carry out the activities cited above. The deadlines for carrying out the committees for acceptance of the cadastral map and the cadastral registers for the announcement, procedure and examination of the objections under art. 45, 46 and 47 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act do not enter the term of the contractor and are the responsibility of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastral Agency. They will all be completed within calendar year 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u242	Thank you, Minister Nenkov. Here's your cue, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u243	Thanks for the answer, Mr. Nankov. On 10 October 2015, in accordance with Order P110/11 of May 2015 of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, as you said, an Interdepartmental Working Group was established, appointed with the order cited above, with the task of carrying out a comprehensive analysis of the legal and urban status of the properties in the territory of the locality. With President Veselin Penev, District Governor of Sofia District, has issued an interim report, which was then extended by six months. My question, Mr. Minister, is do you have a copy of this report that the working group came up with, if you're familiar with it, can I get a copy to meet myself as an MP from the area so that I can respond adequately to the citizens? And my second question is: can you make a commitment from this tribune that, as soon as possible, the district will have a Cadastral map because it is the only area in Sofia that has become a white spot without a Cadastral map. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u244	Thank you, Mrs. Georgieva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. There were specific questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u245	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Georgieva! You are very right for the Report of the Working Group, as I also do not have a copy, but based on a letter sent two weeks ago by memory from our colleagues from the Agency, we have asked the Council of Ministers, respectively, from the Regional Administration of Sofia-City, to obtain a copy of the Report, so that we can fulfil our obligations under the Treaty with the Geoplan project, as one of the main tasks is precisely analyzing the results of the Report, so that we can individualise all, all properties, so that the data in the created Cadastral map of purely rightful nature will not then be harmed. Secondly, yes, firm, therefore our actions within these six-seven months, in the conduct of the contract, the conclusion of a contract with all activities which are a necessary condition for the creation of the Cadastral map and its acceptance under art. 45, 46 and 47 of the Cadastral and Property Register Act, so that in 2018, indeed the part, not the entire Student City, the part of the Student City, which is without the Cadastral Map, should be accepted, so that not only the general construction plan, but all construction deals, but also protection of the property rights of the citizens are guaranteed by this method of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u246	Thanks to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with a question to Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. He will answer a question from MP Dora Yankova about pollution of drinking water in the municipality of Zlatograd and the contaminated river Varbitsa. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u247	Madam President, ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question, Minister of Environment and Water, is from November 29th and concerns pollution of drinking water not only in the municipality of Zlatograd, as I represent this electoral region, but also the entire Bulgarian people, and several Kardzhali municipalities. More than 50 settlements and over 30,000 people had this question and problem, and they were wondering, is the drinking water good, why this year for the third time, February and March, at the beginning of the year, and now for the third time the river Varbitsa is being polluted, and the watering for drinking waters of Zlatograd is from the river? In this sense, I have addressed you as a minister who coordinates everything related to the ecosystem on the Varbitsa River, it itself, naturally, goes to a larger water tank. Is there any problems, what are the problems, what is coordination? In the media, I monitor the activity of the follow-up in the two weeks, but I would like my constituents to ask me, from the platform of parliament, as a Bulgarian minister, to illuminate the issue and to make commitments regarding this problem. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u248	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here you are, Minister Dimov, to illuminate the question and to answer the question asked by the National Representative Dora Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! In 2017, there were actually three emergency situations for contamination of the Erma River's wasteyard. One is in February, as you noted, the other is due to precipitation and icefall in March and heavy rainfall in November. As a result, unpolluted waste water has leaked out of the wasteyard in the Big River, which is the influx of the Varbitsa River. The RIEW, the Swimming Directorate and the regional laboratory have carried out immediate checks. A forced administrative measure has been applied to stop the factory from operating until normalizing the operation of the storage facility in February. On 28 November, measures have been laid down for the operator to prevent future pollution and to carry out daily monitoring of waste water. As a result, the specific measures are: firstly, improving the transmission of the Erma River, which is being carried out at the moment; the second measure is being awarded by the project for pumping the pulp from the enriching factory to the tail of the excavator, which must be done by 30 January 2018; the third one is cleaning 100 acres of cane from the lake, which is due to July 2018. Six checks have been carried out in the period 29 November " 13 December' by the Ministry of Environment and Water control authorities, certifying the implementation of the first measure that I mentioned, which is currently being implemented. The results of daily own monitoring of waste water showed no excess. For the excesses of Gorubso Zlatograd AD on 28 November, the administrative and criminal procedure has been initiated and an act has been drawn up. Your question about the quality of drinking water is the competence of the Ministry of Health and Water and I cannot give you a more specific answer. On 13 December 2017, the Regional Governor held an Interdepartmental Workshop with the participation of all interested parties, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Energy, the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision, the Swimming Directorate Plovdiv, RIEW, RZI, VK, the Regional Directorate of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population, the Mayor and representative of the Municipal Council of Zlatograd, the Regional Governor of Kardzhali and representatives of Gorubso Zlatograd. Competent institutions have reported that there is no deviation in the drinking water performance. In order to ensure transparency, the control bodies shall invite representatives of the local authorities and civil society to take the samples. An on-the-spot inspection and inspection has been carried out by the Interdepartmental Commission and measures have been proposed to improve the drinking water supply of the town of Zlatograd. According to the adopted Second Plan for river basin management (POSD), the waters in the upper river Vrbica are assessed in poor chemical and environmental condition. RMPs include four measures to improve water status. By 30 January 2018, the Company is obliged to provide a programme with short-term, medium-term and long-term implementation measures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u250	Thank you, Minister Dimov. Here's a line for you, dear Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u251	Madam President, Mrs. Ministers! Mr. Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water, still disturbing is the information about me for several reasons. You have said that an alarming state has been found on the waters of the Varbitsa River. There is a management plan from 2016 to 2020. We are now 2017 and we are waiting for something to happen by 2018. Yes, your employees on the ground in Plovdiv, in Smolyan, must have a commitment to constant monitoring. We have no way to move the housing and mining in the Rhodopes, only modern Bulgaria and modern technologies must be an integral part of the policy related to the eco-centre itself. I will give you a hint and ask you, as Minister of the Environment, to put on a comprehensive monitoring environment where mining is made. In the tail of the bush, if you ever visit the Erma River, you will see the most diseases of asthma, i.e. in a breeze what is in the high part, and what is on top is referred to and taken over by the inhabitants. Yeah, they work, they take salaries, but they work in an unhealthy environment. In parallel to this, the water on the river Varbitsa is contaminated. You have delicately diverted the question of the quality of drinking water, and we all know that in about 50 settlements they use water to drink from the water from the river. My recommendation to the government in your person is to draw attention. In my opinion, it is necessary to begin an immediate search for other sources of water use by the population along the river Varbica. The overall administrative opportunity you have to exercise for control in order to have a harmonious ecosystem on the Varbitsa River, because Zlatograd is famous for tourism and not only Zlatograd and Kirkovo, and the neighbouring municipalities of Kardzhaliyska region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u252	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here's your coat, Minister Dimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u253	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, when you talk about monitoring you are absolutely right, with only one difference that when we talk about state institutions, they must control and the monitor is the responsibility of the owner, the investor. In fact, we cannot burden the Bulgarian taxpayer with our own monitoring. That is why I said that the results of the own monitoring, which is currently being given by "Gorubso" shows these results, and our system of local pool inspections controls this as well. So I fully agree, from the point of view of own monitoring, control must be strengthened. I didn't divert the question of drinking water. Indeed, the divisions must be clear. We are responsible for the resource, but how it reaches and in what quality it reaches, the information is obtained by other authorities. In this case, I did not accidentally list all the institutions that were present there. I mentioned both the RZI and the "Basaenova" Directorate, the Water and all the other institutions that are relevant because this is the way. You're right, we're talking about a country, not individual institutions. I am not running away from this responsibility, but merely mentioning that these are different responsibilities within a single government and I agree with that remark of yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u254	Thank you. Let me thank the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We address the questions asked to Rumen Porozhanov "the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests." He will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov concerning the admission of sub-measure 4.1.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Here you are, Mr. Stoilov, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u255	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! One year has passed since the adoption of projects, their establishment according to assessment criteria and regulations in Nardeba No 9 of March 2015, for the implementation of sub-measure 4.1............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The deadline for admission of projects under the Order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food shall be from 26 October 2016 to 7 December 2016. When reference is made to the Universal Registration Number of the Page of the Rural Development Programme, a number of submitted projects shall be opened on dates after the date of 7 December In this regard, my questions are: on what basis is the order, regulation, regulation of the European Union adopted the projects after the final reception date indicated in the Minister's order? What is the number of projects submitted after the deadline specified in the order? Do projects adopted after this deadline take part in the evaluation? Are the principles of equality, transparency and legality preserved in the implementation of the Rural Development Programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u256	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Come in for an answer, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u257	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, the adoption of applications for support in 2016 under the sub-measure 4.1 This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In accordance with the established rules of work, the process of applying for support and payment applications has been replaced by the State Fund for Agriculture in accordance with the contract for divising the functions of implementing the measures under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020. During this period, the submitted projects under this sub-measure were 3165 and more than 60% of them were submitted in the last days of the adoption. When I say the last days, these are the last two and three days, which makes 2000 applications that have been submitted in the last three days. In this regard, an order was issued by the Executive Director of the Fund on 6 December 2016 to complete all applications submitted and accepted for support on the last day of the admission by officials of the regional structures of the State Fund. These are 461 projects on which they were drawn up and registered in the Fund's legal system, which were the basis for the final day of the reception and for which the examination and generation of the sub-measure was initiated on the same day, namely 7 December 2016, but their processing was completed on 8 and 9 December. You know, they all come at the last minute, they pile up and physically our regionals? You have a look at these processes, you can't accept absolutely all the documents. Therefore, not only by 4.1, I think that according to the municipal measures, one more we have done this, those who have come within the time limit, start generation in the ISAC, give them a registration number in the ISAC, and those who are the last are told to come the next day at 10:00, 10:30 and the others at 11:00 to be able to complete the processing. I will tell you how many of these projects are - 461, but the registration has started and has no right to any changes in the documents - both dating and supplementing any documents. It's because of physical inability. Yes, an old Bulgarian practice is that everyone waits at the last minute. Before, you know, it was back when there was a date and time of submission at equal points, then everyone rushed on the first day to pass. Of the 124 applications processed on the basis of the constant protocols, the 100 per cent of the receiving budget announced by the order, i.e. according to the applications received more than 56 points, which are currently being viewed, including following a preliminary verification of compliance with the assessment criteria. I want to assure you that there is no violation of the regulation or any procedures. Each of the projects has been submitted within the time limits, but their processing has ended within the physical capacity of the employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u258	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Mr. Stoilov, you have the opportunity to set a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u259	Thank you for your answer, Minister. It has not yet become clear to me how is the order of the Executive Director of the Fund of Agriculture stronger than the Order of the Minister of Agriculture? That is to say, the order of the Executive Director of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors shall extend the period of admission. Is that right? I can only hint at a few of the cases, which during and at reception, and after the adoption when assessing the criteria, are quite disturbing. For example, in the evaluation criteria 8.3, projects with investment intentions for the construction or renovation of buildings, premises and other real estate directly related to the production, storage and preparation of the production for sale, including equipment, equipment and machinery other than the agricultural equipment which are installed therein, this Annex No 7 allows 75% of the investment costs of the project to be related to the construction or renovation of buildings, premises and other real estate or equipment, equipment, machinery other than agricultural equipment which are installed therein. However, there are answers on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food to requests and questions for measure 4.1. It quotes highly controversial additions such as that in the Appendix to Regulation No 9, Art. 9. 35 it is not stated that the published additions and clarifications will be taken into account when assessing the projects, i.e. giving a prerequisite for a requirement for clarification by the Ministry, but the text of the main documents for the implementation of 4.1 does not take these documents into account. The difference. In 8.3 it is recorded: the construction or renovation of buildings, premises and other real estates, which in essence implies the presentation of technical documentation for the operation of construction works. Again, in response to requests and questions concerning 4.1 in several places, it is answered that the assessment of this criterion will not take into account certain parts of technical projects, namely vertical planning, fence and others. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] How and on what basis are the technical documentation for construction and assembly being divided and assessed in criterion 8.3 separate parts selected? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u260	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Here's your coat, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u261	You'll excuse me for not understanding the second part of your line. Very carefully, by transferring the pages, you have read specific parts of the instructions and so on. I take the commitment if you give me a written question on this, let's make a comment. Under no circumstances do we believe that the Minister's orders have been violated, as I have told you, everyone has come within the time limit. We can't bring back any beneficiary, so you can't physically process his program. You know, N number are the documents, each one is manually inserted into the ISAC once it is accepted. You have eyes on these things, and I don't have to say it. The generation of the number itself, the start of the registration on the relevant day is not violated, but that it is physically completed on the next day, this is due to the physical inability to do so. It is no coincidence that we are already going to the ISAC, where each electronicly generates itself and when the bell rings at 17.00, which entered, entered, but this meant that we would return the 461 beneficiary who came in for example at 16.30 on the last day. You know I can't. I assure you that you are not worried, there is no violation of any regulation or anything, including from an audit point of view, I believe that everything is fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u262	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We continue with a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev concerning subsequent control of the implementation of the Treaty with No 14/321/01326 between the State Fund Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u263	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ministers, honourable colleagues! On 27 November 2012, a contract was concluded between the State Fund of Agriculture and the Municipality of Zemen to grant financial assistance under measure 321 "Basic services for the population and the economy in rural areas' by the Rural Development Programme for the period 2007 - 2013, supported by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development with No 14/321/01326 and subject: "Restructuring, renovation and modernisation of sports infrastructure in the municipality of Zemen. The value of that contract is 3 million. 468 thousand. 942 leva. On the basis of this contract, the municipality of Zemen has conducted a public service and has commissioned the implementation of the project: 334 thousand. BGN 497. without VAT. Two years have not yet passed since putting those sites into service and is already in a miserable state. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is as follows: what action has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry taken in fulfilling its legal and contractual obligations to carry out subsequent controls in respect of the above mentioned sites? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u264	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u265	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Bonev! I'll repeat some of the things you said. The municipality of Zemen had a contract with the State Fund on 27 November 2012 for the construction of a stadium with stands, pools and service building in the town of Zemen. On 2 September 2015, a request for final payment was submitted for the project by the municipality. After carrying out administrative checks, in compliance with the accredited procedures for work under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013 by experts from the Fund, it was found that the investment was carried out and used as intended, in relation to which the subsidy of about three and a half million levs was paid. In accordance with art. 45 of Decree 25 of 2008 on the terms and conditions for granting grants under the same measure...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Compliance with those requirements is subject to a procedure of subsequent expost control which is an objective control activity, an element of the overall financial management and control process of the Paying Agency over the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. The procedure aims to ensure effective and lawful utilisation of the agreed amounts paid under the European Union funding programme. The subsequent expost control is in order to monitor the implementation of commitments by beneficiaries in relation to the financial assistance received. The control described shall be subject to no less than one percentage of the total number of projects and 5% of the eligible costs for the final investment projects. The selection of post-payment control projects shall be carried out annually through a risk analysis procedure for projects in a monitoring period. In the period from the payment of the aid until that date, the project did not fall into the sample for on-the-spot verification of the risk analysis. In this respect, no post-payment checks were carried out, no signals for non-support of the assets financed have been received in the State Fund. If you have any, signal to check. I know that this stadium was also an element of reporting. I cannot tell you in person what state he is in at the moment, but since this is a facility that cannot be used for anything else, the question is that the municipality is able to maintain it according to the requirements of the Programme and that is their responsibility. So if you file an alert and I can refer to the Fund to carry out a similar check, if you consider this to be some sort of problematic project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u266	Thank you, Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u267	Thank you for your answer, Minister. As you said yourself, the site was paid off September 2015 on a basis issued certificate of use. Interesting facts come up after that. On 16 July 2016, the official opening of a swimming pool by the municipality of Zemen was unknown, which suggests that either at the time of the transfer of the money the pool was not ready or then finished, but this is a topic of another conversation. The pool is in a miserable state, it is not a coincidence that I focus on it, because according to the admission day of the residents, it is filled by the river, which gives prerequisites for farming aquaculture, and not all. He's in a miserable state. Grass cover in most of the stadium is already missing. I haven't had the opportunity to examine to such an extent whether the municipality manages the facility properly because I have no information about it. It is a pity that this object did not really fall into the subsequent control of the Ministry, respectively of the Fund. Now I'll even give you some footage to see for yourself. I hope that this site does not illustrate the absorption of euro funds, because, after all, there is nearly EUR 2 million of money paid to European taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u268	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you are, Mr. Minister. You can take a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u269	Thank you. I also hope that if there is poor exploitation of the object, it is not practice and I think it is not. Just one line in terms of opening. This is an informal official opening by the mayor, or by anyone, of an object, it is not related to the implementation of the project itself, the payment itself and so on. I'll give you an example within the joke. There was a terminal in Silistra that was built, I don't know if Mr. Stoilov knew, which was discovered three times by three ministers, three governments quickly turned around and the three ministers came to find it. So the topic of discovery of object is a slightly different topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u270	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the MP Stanislav Stanilov. Professor, you are welcome to develop the issue, which concerns the need to change the status of land property in which an archaeological site of national importance is located. You'll tell us more about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u271	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Last Friday, I asked the Minister of Culture a similar question. Against the backdrop of our major problems in the country, this issue seems not particularly significant, but in fact for this area, Malko Tarnovo, such a question is very important. There is a girl director of the Museum, who fights for cultural tourism, cultural heritage and so on, and is abandoned in such a sense by the Ministry of Culture, to struggle only. This is, as the Russians say, Kamchatka (Bulgarian Kamchatka). Well, Mr. Minister, special attention should be paid to this area. He's very handsome, by the way, but that's something else. The area of Malko Tarnovo municipality is rich in historical sites that contain important information about the country's past and are very attractive to all visitors with an interest in cultural and historical heritage. The site of Mogilen necropolis in the area of Propada is from an archaeological group of real estate cultural value of national importance: 48 graveyard mounds, six stone tombs. And in order to take action for restoration and conservation of the site, it is necessary to take the land property PI No 466636715, to deactivate the State Public Property Forest Fund, to be deactuated by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and to act on the Ministry of Culture. The municipality of Malko Tarnovo has submitted the necessary documents to the Ministry of Culture. The next step in the procedure is for the Minister of Culture to address the Ministry of Agriculture Food and Forests for the deactivation of the property after asking the Regional Governor of Burgas to draw up a state property act. In this regard, I ask you to answer how and when you will respond to the request of the Minister of Culture to change the status of land estate, where the archaeological site of national importance is located. Thank you for your attention. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u272	Thank you, Mr. Stanilov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u273	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Stanilov! They've given me a very detailed answer here, but in the end, I'm going to review it, because it was pretty complicated when I read it, too, but I'm still going to read it. The land you mentioned is a forest territory of state public property with an area of about 2490 acres. The property is located in a protected area of Nature Park. According to the Law on Protected Areas, the construction, maintenance and use of sites in protected areas are carried out in accordance with the regime of activities established under this Law by order of notification and with the management plan of planning and technical plans and projects. Under the Cultural Heritage Act, the regime for the preservation of the real cultural value is determined by the act declaring it or providing status. The regime for the preservation of the real cultural value indicates the territorial scope and the prescriptions for the preservation of real cultural values and its environment. By order of 16 December 2016, the Minister of Culture is granted the status of real cultural values of Mogile Necropolis in the area of Propada. The Ministry of Culture should clarify the regime for the conservation of this significant area of 2490 acres, taking into account its status on a protected territory within the meaning of the Law on Protected Areas, as well as its nature as a forest whose management, security and use is carried out under the Law on Forests. The Forests Act provides for an order by which activities in forest areas can be carried out in research and conservation of archaeological sites, construction of facilities and sites for restoration and adaptation of real archaeological cultural values, as well as facilities to ensure the preservation of cultural values. In order to apply this order by an investor, there is no need to change the purpose of the land property or change the ownership and management of the land property concerned. A free transfer of property to forest territories of state ownership or provision for the management of land property should comply with the provisions of the Forests Act and the Construction Act of the territory. The implementation of the Order of Art. Article 15 54 of the State Property Act does not change the type of territory. The need for land ownership in forest territory is only dropped after a change in the lasting purpose of the property. The Executive Forest Agency and the Ministry believe that the need for the land-related property in the forestry territories of public property for a change in the purpose of the property under the Forest Law and should not apply to this property art. Article 15 54 of the State Property Act. The Municipality of Malko Tarnovo should take advantage of the opportunities provided in the Forests Act for carrying out investment intentions related to archaeological and cultural values. In view of the fact that your question does not specifically state which period we are referring to and which letter these questions are given to us on the subject, I would like to assure you that a reply in this spirit will be sent to the Minister of Culture with a copy to Malko Tarnovo Municipality as soon as possible. The Ministry's letter will provide detailed instructions on the opportunities provided by the Forest Act and the necessary steps in this direction to achieve the investment objectives of the municipality related to this archaeological property............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ A little more information about some time ago the municipality with certain documents acquired a very large plot and acted as a municipal forest fund. However, before 2014, they were recovered as a State Forest Fund. In this forest fund are all these mounds and archaeological values. There is no problem to grant under the current laws without transferring the rights of ownership to the forest and changing the purpose of the forest, the right to use or the right to build subsequently in order to carry out these activities. We will give detailed instructions to the Ministry of Culture with a copy to the municipality of Malko Tarnovo so that they can develop this activity within the archaeological excavations. It's not an obstacle to doing this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u274	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I've given you more time to complete your answer. Mr. Stanilov, you have an opportunity for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u275	Dear Minister, you have touched me and I will tell you that I have been dealing for years as a member of parliament for a fourth term with these problems, and for the first time I have received such a reply from the Ministry, with the intention of giving instructions to the people of Malko Tarnovo, who are certainly not fully in an hour with these complexitys in administration and so on, who in our country you know what problems they are, to tell them directly: The monument is interesting, there this area, these tombs are very attractive and therefore these people can do something at this poor end. There's an opportunity, there's a resource. What I've told you, I'll tell you again, thank you very much, it pleases me. I'm such a MP, I keep track of things. I'll follow up on how things are going. From there I will really be told what they are doing and so on, but generally this answer satisfies me. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u276	Thank you, Professor. Mr. Minister, please come in and complete your reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u277	I also thank you for the question and the line. It is also inexplicable to me why this letter has not been answered for a long time. So, Mr. Stanilov, I make a commitment in the answer even to invite the municipality, after receiving it, to come directly to the mayor and the people, as you say, who are dealing with this process, to be able to comment on them on the spot, or in Burgas with our directorate, so that they are aware of what they intend to be able to realize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u278	Thank you, Minister this was the last question for you and thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We continue with questions to Ms. Tsetska Tsacheva, Minister of Justice, who will first answer a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev on reform of the system of prisons. Mr. Baychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u279	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Once again, there is tension in the prisons, especially among the employees who work there. Madam Minister, to you and also to the President of the National Assembly, in this case it was Mr. Glauchev, a letter was sent from the Syndicate to the employees of the prisons in Bulgaria, informing you of the problems in the system and their demands. These problems don't exist recently, they're a long time ago. I'd even say they're piled up, but there's still no solution to these problems. Prisoners work in a strictly specific environment, and I would say it is not for everyone, but rather for healthy, strong and mentally sustainable people. Is there any plan for administrative, organizational and financial measures that will lead to a drop in the created tensions? I believe that there is a will in your person to do everything possible to resolve these problems, but nevertheless there is no need for codification. My question to you is this: what is the readiness of the Ministry of Justice to carry out the necessary reforms in the prison system to create order, normal working conditions of the employees and re-education of the condemned? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u280	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Madam Minister, you have the floor to answer the question of the MP Mr. Baychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u281	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Baychev, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Not a single letter, several are the materials that I have received from those working in the administration of the prisons, and not only in the Directorate-General for Punishment, but also in the Directorate-General for Security, as the two departments have the status of secondary officers to the Ministry of Justice and have similar legislative regime. The employees there are aligned to the employees under the Ministry of Interior Act. As a result of these requests, we have held several meetings, mainly with the representatives of the trade unions from the two Directorates and the administrative heads. Their claims are painfully familiar. I agree with you that in this system work healthy, strong and mentally sustainable people and therefore admire them. I share that the policies carried out by the Ministry to improve the conditions in the places of detention and on which we have seen the progress and assessment of our partners towards those imprisoned must be equivalent, corresponding to the efforts made to improve the working conditions and remuneration of those employed with the protection of prisoners. As a result of the agreements reached from our last meetings, as well as in response to the letter of the Prosecutor General Tsatsarov, who made another similar letter this week, because you are right that these are problems accumulated over the years and similar recommendations there were before I took over the ministry's management, there are specific prescriptions that next week on the 21st of the 14:00 am I have invited the trade unions' guides along with the administrative directors of the two Directorates to take into account in particular what we have done so far in response to their demands. It is clear to everyone that a 20% increase in wages cannot be achieved in view of the state budget. But both for the entire system "Secure", along with the employees of the Ministry of Interior, the defence, the DANS, and the employees of the General Directorate "Secretary" and the Directorate General "Execution of the Punishments" will have a 5% increase in the wage from 1 January next year. With regard to the small number of people not employed at the Directorate General, there are about 400 available state numbers, mainly for guards. Clearly, the remuneration, the difficult working conditions, I do not mean, unfavorable for young people, unattractive, but it is a problem with completing state numbers. However, competitions are regularly held. But I must frankly share with you that turnover is also not small. However, we have developed and I have approved a new establishment plan in which, on the proposal of the administrative management, we have taken into account where the busiest units are, they should be reinforced with personnel with additional numbers at the expense of others, and I do not say that they are less important, but at this stage, in view of the system's capabilities, it is assessed that in other places it should be responded. The issue remains open, which is discussed in both the Legal Committee and here in plenary at the adoption of the 2018 Budget, about the so-called "base for defining specific working conditions'. As at this time, although they are under the same regime with the employees in the Ministry of Interior, the base in the Ministry of Interior is 190 BGN, while in the Ministry of Justice in both Directorates the base is 95 BGN. I've got what it takes to get out in front of them next week. That is why I will keep it today, because I believe it is correct in response to their claims that they should first be the ones who will know what the administration and management of the ministry will offer them. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] With regard to one of their requests to draw up rules on how additional remuneration is formed, these rules are already ready in response to their requests. We are working on the first recommendation of the Prosecutor General, and it is about finding a criterion by which there is a relevance of the guards, of the administration, of the prison service, of the number of convicted persons. It turns out that this is not such a simple occupation, as the number of persons who suffer punishment is dynamic. In various weeks he is quite naturally different, but we are also working on this. In conclusion, with an apology for delaying a lot of time, but I wanted to be as comprehensive as possible, this is a priority for the Justice Department. Problems are clear. I know, they're open. We have a proper regular dialogue. I'm sure that's how we'll continue. I am doing everything possible by the government where it is necessary and legislative initiative with the MPs to be better and better conditions for the administration, which are working in prisons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u282	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Baychev, do you have a reply to the specific statement in answer to your question?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u283	Dear Mr. Chairman! Thank you, Madam Minister, for indeed the comprehensive answer that I have to say was indeed correct. I see you've been working on the letter and on the problems that have been posed to you. As far as the wage is concerned, I would still like to think about it, as the 5% increase is for all the employees of the Ministry of Interior, it is not just for the employees of the prisons. Their desire is for these remunerations to be leveled at the Directorate General's Office. The other thing I am also asking you to work on and think about is the appointments of precisely those missing guards, who, according to the employees, are between 500 and 700. This burdens them in the working process with regard to the preparation of shifts and breaks respectively. On the other hand, I will not tell where I got this information, it should not be distributed, but I have spoken to employees who claim that one employee is responsible for 96 people on duty. In fact, God forbid, if anything happens, they can't hold these people down. That's why I think we need to get new footage into this system urgently. The other thing I would ask you to think about, too, is that the working dormitories.. should be increased their number, to enable the re-education of the less condemned people to be separated from the people with severe sentences so that they can have no influence on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u284	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. You will take an attitude, Madam Minister, you have this opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u285	In the first part of your reply, everyone would undoubtedly like to have an opportunity to increase remuneration in difficult, responsible and unattractive labour functions. But you yourselves understand that this is about a budget, it is about funds that have been allocated, so I could not, despite my desire, go above those 5%, which you, the MPs, have adopted in the State Budget Act a total of the entire system of security and I think it is also fair to put under this regime. As far as unoccupied numbers are concerned. Yes, I fully share your call. They're looking for opportunities. They're promoting this profession. We keep working, we haven't given up. Men are wanted to apply and, respectively, after the competition procedure to be appointed for these posts. As for your last part of the line on the fact that for those incarcerated with a lighter regime of punishment, measures should be taken to allow their rapid resocialization after the punishment is endured, working on this issue. And in conclusion, I would like to say that these efforts are being taken into account by our partners. In September, they were here on a mission to the Council of Europe by the Prison Torture Response Committee, where, in parallel with the topic of improving the conditions for prisoners, I have always raised the question of improving the working conditions of employees, in particular those employed, of prison guards. And a similar number of ratios, that is, one overseer for how many persons and certain shifts he answers, I could provide you with the tables. They're no secret. They're different in different settlements. The common thing is that they are insufficient as staff to care for those incarcerated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u286	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is also raised by the MP Todor Bajchev. It is about judicial reform, according to the adopted Strategy. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u287	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! Judicial reform is a complex of legislative measures, including organisational research, as well as numerous projects. At what stage are we in the administrative, organizational and financial measures that will lead to the effective management of the system, the processes of attestations, the career process, the disciplinary process and electronic justice? The main principles on which the adopted Strategy is based are: guaranteeing the independence of the court; prevention of corruption and forms of uncontrolled influence; protection of human rights; management based on knowledge, professional self-government; public accessibility of judicial institutions to become open to citizens, as well as integrating approaches to re-socialisation. On the basis of these principles, the document provides for measures for deep reform of the investigation bodies whose career depends on the outcome of the cases, on the serious involvement of judges in the management of the system and increasing the responsibility and accountability of the Prosecutor's Office. I see that there is the will of the legislator to do everything possible to resolve these problems, but nevertheless the processes are slow. My question to you is this: what is the readiness of the Ministry of Justice to conduct judicial reform according to the adopted strategy for creating adequate conditions for the work of the judiciary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u288	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Madam Minister, you have a word for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u289	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Baychev! Two are the main priorities in the work of the Ministry of Justice. Internally, this is the work on the updated Strategy for continuing judicial reform. The second priority is undoubtedly our commitments relating to the Presidency of the Council of the European Union. The work on the updated Strategy shall continue from the date of its adoption in 2015 by a decision of the National Assembly. It has a 7-year period, as it aimed to coincide with the programming period for support under the Structural Funds of the European Union. A small path has been made so far.. a constitutional change, twice a change in the Law on the Judiciary, a number of legislative initiatives that are already laws... in implementation of the Strategy. However, what is important and I would like to share with you is that the concrete steps in implementing the scheduled measures and the roadmap are the subject of a 6-month and annual analysis carried out by the Council for the implementation of the updated Strategy. He's with the Justice Department. He's run by me. It includes all interested state structures that are relevant and committed to judicial reform, together with magistrates of judges, prosecutors, investigators and representatives of the non-governmental sector. On 19 December, next Tuesday, another regular meeting of the Council was held and two extraordinary meetings were held in view of the government's legislative initiatives prepared by the Ministry of Justice dealing with the judiciary. I would like to share with you that the Ministry of Justice is currently a beneficiary of seven projects, which after a little fun, are the result of the political processes of early elections, explained to everyone, we are trying to catch up in time. These are: support for measures in the area of effective access to justice, penal policy to prepare a whole new penal strategy, with a view to the need to give us answers do we need an entirely new Penal Code, as stated in the strategy; improving the quality of services offered in the field of the penal system; improving the quality of legal education; improving the quality of legal education; and expanding the field of application of alternative means of dispute resolution; ensuring and improving access to e-Justice by improving the electronic portal and developing the registration system; improving the quality of expertise in the judiciary; and expanding the field of application of alternative means of dispute resolution. I would like to remind you that, in the last report of the European Commission on the cooperation and verification mechanism, we have received an objective assessment of a positive fact that we are implementing the prescribed measures, of course, there must be no retreat, and this is my commitment, as well as of the entire management of the ministry, the Supreme Judicial Council, so that with the political will of the ruling majority, with the clear estimates that we have, with the assistance of the non-governmental sector, the work continues to implement the measures of this Strategy. Last time, I'm running out of time again! In fulfilling a specific objective 6 of the Strategy, and this is the development of the individual institutions of the judiciary, on a proposal from Deputy Prime Minister Zaharieva, who is also responsible for judicial reform, and my proposal, we have also made three requests for technical assistance to the Office to support structural reforms in the area of the judiciary, and they are aimed at... Mr. Chairman, allow me to define them precisely, as in the media sometimes they go with a different interpretation!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u290	I'll wait patiently! I don't think there's anyone who can resist...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u291	The first sphere is strengthening the capacity of the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council for the Prevention of Corruption, in view of the new powers relating to the integrity checks of magistrates. The second request for technical assistance is to establish reasons of legislative and organisational nature, to delays in examining and closing criminal cases in a judicial phase and to take measures to speed them up, as well as to improve the legislative framework, as well as to develop an analysis on the existence of formalism in the judicial phase of each instance of the proceedings. The third request relates to measures being taken to regulate the activities of the Supreme Administrative Court and the system of administrative courts. I recall that in this order was requested assistance from independent prosecutors who conducted an analysis of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria with specific recommendations on which there are issued road maps and work for their implementation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u292	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Baychev, how do you respond?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u293	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, Members of the National Assembly! I understand that the time is really short, Madam Minister, for you to tell everything and in detail, but I am glad that a lot of the topics have been checked out. I'm going to take the liberty of asking you a few remarks and further supplementary questions. Firstly, I would like to start, even though we have adopted a Strategy and its implementation has begun, for some reason in the Monitoring Report no measure has been implemented, or so it is said. The other thing I would also like to draw attention to is the so-called "modern policy'. I think, although BSP specifically disagreed, changes to the Penal Code and the PPC have been adopted, which have boldly turned it over and, I would say, we already have new ones, another is the question to what extent they are active. I would also like to draw attention to something else, namely: because you have touched on the subject of the budget, a new way of budgeting has been laid down in the Strategy, and we have also proposed an increase in the resources for justice, even my colleague Bozhankov, who called on in this part to support the budget as well. My question is, if you could give me some clarification on the pending situation of the investigators. These are people competent, with specific knowledge and capabilities, but I would say that they are currently understaffed. What is your opinion and strategy with regard to investigators, and do you also foresee any plan to reinstate probationary education, qualifying measures, and thus become full members of our society? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u294	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Here you are, Madam Secretary. Obviously, three answers will again violate the regulation! The questions are such that they require more time. We'll listen to you patiently.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u295	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Baychev, really the questions you raise go beyond the framework of a matter of control, but they are very important and the main one the team of Justice is dealing with on the inside, outside the Presidency. On the occasion of your first line, I would like to clarify, sometimes there is confusion from which recommendation, is it to the Strategy, to the measures, to the Report? What you are talking about in the Annual Report is that it is about the 17 recommendations from the previous January 2017 Annual Report. There are clearly taken into account the specific steps that the responsible institutions have taken on each of these recommendations. There's no recommendation not to work on! They could not at this stage be fully accounted for as implemented because, as of January 2017, the government started in May, for the November report, you understand how many months we are talking about, but nevertheless on each of the indicators we have concrete steps and concrete implementation. Yes, the results of the legislative changes adopted must be seen and therefore the report with these 17 recommendations is with the end of 2018 horizon when the next report is expected. As for your doubt about the changes that have been made to the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has been in force since November 5th this year, do not worry, they meet the support of our partners and the policies provided for in the PPC to overcome formalism, slowness and return of cases that work for more speed in criminal proceedings, are welcomed and appreciated well. Of course, they need to trigger these new rules in order to have a specific assessment of this, a follow-up assessment of the impact of the PPC. Thank you for the question of the workload of the investigators. I fully share your thesis. These are magistrates, part of the independent judiciary, and they should have more responsibility in the criminal trial. Therefore, with the Anti-Corruption Act, which is currently on the second vote and is on the attention of the MPs, we have proposed by the Government Bill and amendments to the PPC, where corruption crimes and other serious crimes committed by persons occupying high levels of power to be investigated by investigators in the future. I believe that it is magistrates, lawyers, part of another independent authority, such as the judiciary, that is the most appropriate solution, and I would ask you to support our bill in this part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u296	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question, lastly, is asked by MP Krum Zarkov and he is about the register of non-profit legal entities and the readiness of the Registry Agency for its maintenance. Mr. Zarkov, you're welcome to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u297	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Madam Minister, the latest amendments and additions to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities were published in the Official Gazette on 20 September 2016. It provides for several key changes to one of which concerns my question: the passage of the registration of non-profit legal entities from the competent court to the State, in particular to the Registry Agency. According to art. 6, para. 1 of this law, a non-profit corporate entity shall have its registration in the relevant register. This law, accordingly, will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Naturally, in order to enter into the relevant register legal persons, first, such a register must be established. Secondly, the competent administration must be prepared to maintain and serve with it. In this regard, it is my question: what is the technical and organisational readiness of the Registry Agency to start work on the special register several weeks before the entry into force of the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u298	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u299	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Zarkov, your question is indeed up to date because it is related to the immediate entry of the Law into force and organisation in a different way from the existing, related to non-profit legal entities. In order to ensure the practical application of the Law, amendments and additions to the regulations governing the regime of commercial registration and registration of non-profit legal entities are adopted. An amendment to the Tariff for State Fees collected by the Registry Agency was adopted by the Council of Ministers on 8 December 2017 taking into account the possibility of submitting applications electronically. In parallel with the implementation of the Law, we are also working on reducing the administrative burden for non-profit legal entities. With regard to the technical realization of the functionalities and the information system of the Register, there is a contract providing for the possibility of entering the circumstances and announcing acts under the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act in the Information System of the Commercial Register. The expected results are: First, on 1 January 2018, the possibility of entering into circumstances and declaring acts for associations, foundations and branches of non-profit foreign legal entities without the registration and processing of current status certificates received from those non-profit legal entities by the court which have been requested by the Registry Agency in the re-registered process. The possibility of re-registered on the basis of an application submitted in the Register will be ensured in order to comply with the amendments as follows. They are at two points: in cases where a non-profit legal entity and branches of a foreign legal entity provide a certificate of actual status by the court and the statutes; and the second hypothesis, where such a legal entity and branches of a foreign entity do not provide an actual status certificate, the Registry Agency will require the same professionally from the relevant paper-based district court. Re-certification will be provided upon receipt. On 15 January 2018, certificates and copies of documents from the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-profit Legal Entities will be provided for associations, foundations and branches of non-profit foreign legal entities. In view of the specifics of the circumstances for the Chitalishtes of the People's Republic of Bulgaria at a later stage, the possibility of entering circumstances, announcing acts and issuing certificates of folk Chitalishtes, registering and processing of the documents requested by the Registry Agency in the re-registered process shall be provided, without the registration of actual status certificates of that person by the court and its subsequent processing. Similar to the functionality ensuring the re-registered of non-profit legal entities and branches of foreign non-profit entities, the registration of such persons will also be possible under a simplified administrative regime, i.e. by the Registry Agency. To sum up: there is a delay with regard to the technical possibility. There will be no possibility for the contract to be implemented by January 1st, but we have taken measures to upgrade existing systems at the moment not to hinder the implementation of the Law. We're in dialogue with non-governmental organizations. Such a meeting was held last week. The opinions of NGOs are public. I hope there's no trouble in the system. We are doing everything we can so that the Law is implemented and the extension of the moment of its entry into force is not necessary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u300	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Zarkov, would you care to comment? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u301	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, first of all, thank you for your reply and for the exact schedule you gave. My question was provoked by two things. The first was the concern that came to me from the stakeholders. The second was the general trend that is noticed and which is both a vice of both the legislative and the executive powers, which is to vote laws without predicting precisely the difficulty of their implementation. This sometimes puts us in situations to demand from certain subjects something that we ourselves are not ready to provide them as a service. As we speak, I remember that moment in the Public Procurement Act, which threatened a whole system because the corresponding planned register was not ready in time. I pay attention to this problem and specifically to what we are talking about now, but also to what we are betting in the Administrative Procedure Code and in various laws relating to electronic voting and registers, many of which are subject to your ministry. Specifically on your answer. There is a difference in the Law between non-profit legal entities registered for public benefit and those registered for private benefit. Most likely for technical reasons related to the specifics of different organisations, you are introducing a phased registration on another sign, which is the sign of the specifics of different organisations. Taking into account the short-terms of the stages,.. 1. 15 January, this should not lead to a major problem, but in principle it is worth noting that, according to the provision of § 25 of the Transitional and Final Regulations, all non-governmental organisations have an obligation under the Law to be transferred to the new regime within three years, in fact by 31 December 2020. I really appeal, if it is going to have to be staged and it is not possible otherwise, let the stages be compressed with each other, otherwise the system is left in inequality between the different legal entities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u302	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u303	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Zarkov, gentlemen of the House! I thank you for understanding that the provisions laid down in the Law depend on technical implementation, on the implementation of projects relating to public procurement procedures, with appeals, sometimes unpredictable over time as a duration of months for the completion of the procedure. However, by sharing the importance of a legal provision, I have not supported, although I will admit that there have also been such voices to postpone the moment of the entry of the Law for a further period of time. We have tried, and I think we have received the consent and understanding of non-profit legal entities, that it is possible to function in the way and within the time limits that I have laid out to you quite correctly. Thanks also for the good cooperation that we have with them is due to the MPs who have properly addressed this problem in oral conversation. For me, this is an example by which different authorities should function, because our responsibility is to favour citizens, business representatives and NGOs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-12-15.u304	Thank you, Madam Secretary. This was a good signal for the parliamentary week. The last question to you. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. That's how we ran out of weekly programs. The next parliament meeting is on December 20th, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
