ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u1	Good morning, fellow Members. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, I present to you the draft work programme of the National Assembly for the period from 4 to 6 October 2017 including, discussed at the Conference of Presidents: 1. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. Retire from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev on 3 October 2017. 2. Report of the Temporary Committee for the Study of the implementation of the procedure for the selection of a new type of combat aircraft and a draft decision on the report. Importer is the Temporary Commission on 27 September 2017. 3. Annual report on the state of the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 August 2017. 4. First vote on the Draft Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure. Importers are Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. 5. First vote on the bill on measures against money laundering. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Youth Act. The people's representative Vesela Lecheva and a group of MPs on 5 July 2017. 7. Parliamentary control. Please vote. They voted 208 MPs: 188, none, abstention 20. Program accepted. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include as a point in the weekly Programme the following additional point, which will be point seven, and the parliamentary control, respectively, point eight, draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The representatives of the National Assembly are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Manoil Manev, on 3 October 2017. The proposal was discussed at the Conference of Presidents and adopted. We are making the clarification that, after a meeting of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, which will take place in the break, we will determine the exact place of the point with a new vote to take place within today, as the deadline expires today. Please vote on the proposal. Vote 213 MPs: for 197, against 7, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Messages: Draft and draft resolutions for the period from 27 September to 3 October 2017: On 27 September 2017, a draft Law on the archive of State Security documents and intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army was adopted. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Defence. On 27 September 2017, a Law amending the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land was adopted. The people's representative Zapriyan Yankov and a group of MPs are importing. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead. It has also been allocated to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On 27 September 2017, a Law amending the Law on Physical Education and Sports was adopted. The representatives of the National Assembly are Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev, Hristo Prodanov, Boriana Georgieva and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. On 28 September 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Physical Education and Sports was adopted. The people's representative Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs are importing. Distributed to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports. On 28 September 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 29 September 2017, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Communications entered into force. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 29 September 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 29 September 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Plant and Planting Material was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. On 29 September 2017, a Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, a Report on the Implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2016, an Annual Report and a Report on the Activity of the State Fund to Guarantee the Sustainability of the State Pension System for 2016 and an Annual Report on the State Debt Status for 2016. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. On 2 October 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The lead is the Committee on Budget and Finance. It is allocated to the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 2 October 2017, a Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products was received in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. On 3 October 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Transport Act was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. On 3 October 2017, a draft decision was received to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The representatives of the National Assembly are Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Manoil Manev. It has been assigned to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. On 2 October 2017 she received information from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov regarding the debates on the questions by the MPs Mihail Hristov, Anton Kutev and Georgi Gokov on the policies for solving the problems of people with disabilities and the concrete actions related to them. The information referred to above shall be in accordance with point 2 and point 3 of the National Assembly Decision of 4 July 2017. According to point two, information on the measures taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to ensure sustainability of social services: personal assistant, social assistant and home assistant, after the completion of the funding under Operational Programme According to point three, information on the actions taken by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the social assessment of people with disabilities with regard to their individual needs. The information is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. On 2 October 2017, the National Assembly received a Report of the Chairman of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund on the performance of its functions under the Bankruptcy Act for the period from 25 August 2017 to 24 September 2017 and Protocol No 40 from a meeting of the Governing Council of the Bank Deposit Guarantee Fund. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Report and Protocol were sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and are available to the Members of the National Assembly and to the Library of the National Assembly. On 29 September 2017, the National Statistical Institute in the National Assembly received information on the general index of producer prices in industry and indexes at prices of producer of the domestic and international market in industry for August 2017, business climate in industry, construction, retail and services in September 2017. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, due to the high public interest, we propose points first, second and third of the weekly program to be broadcast directly by the Bulgarian National Television. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] . Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u3	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposals made to the vote. In fact, it is one thing, but it concerns three points. Please vote. They voted 214 MPs: for 104, against 86, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. Moving on to the first item on the agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. Application by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev, MP from the twenty-nineth election district "Haskovo." "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria I am resigning as MP elected in the mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I would like to be suspended as a Member of the National Assembly by decision of the National Assembly. Signature: Delyan Dobrev. In this regard, I offer you an official: Project! DECISION terminating the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 72, para. 1, t. 1 and para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the authority of Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev as MP from the twenty-nineth election district of Haskovo. You have the floor to speak. People's representative Spas Gurnevsky. [[Announcement from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u4	Thank you. [[Radio and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u5	Please, guys! You've brought great joy, Mr. Gurnevsky, to the coworkers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, you are all witnesses that from the first day of this National Assembly and the formation of the Bulgarian government the opposition started an irreconcilable battle for destabilization of the country, the parliament [[(Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria (BSP for Bulgaria))]] , refusing to participate in the preparation and protection of national interests in the upcoming tests of Bulgaria as both European Presidency and internal and external. Moreover, a very rude start has begun, in recent times many low, very unworthy attacks against decent parliamentarians in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u7	I beg your resignation, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u8	Mrs. Yoncheva escaped from the big themes, from the big schemes of the transition, from Bulgaria's bankruptcy, from robbing the country from foreign trading companies; she escaped from the schemes in the bankruptcy of the banks? Two dozen failed banks during the time of your minister, who is in your group; she escaped from the issues and from the bankruptcy during the Jandish winter; she fled the scheme for the the theft of Plovdiv properties [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] for 150 million, then another half a billion at the International Fair were taken from this country under the benevolent view of the then Deputy Minister of Economy and Chairman of the Board of the International Fair in Plovdiv. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u9	I beg your resignation, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u10	It has recently passed on small and unworthy schemes in a direct attack on MPs, and it is prominent parliamentarians that you all know. Journalistic ethics requires that, when you make such statements on the Haskovo case, you give a comparative analysis with at least another Bulgarian municipality, or two to say: that is the case, and that is the case here. Last night, your serious, prominent MP said: in the Kavarna case, we are yet to check, as we are yet to clarify where and how votes are bought for the elections. Not because of you, you are aware, but because of the viewers I will remind you of Kavarna after all. The mayor is from BSP Nina Stavreva. Chairman of BSP Kavarna, and Chairman of the Budget Committee of the Municipal Council is Cousin Victoria Kurcheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u11	Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u12	The other cousin Ivaylo Kerchev is the technical manager of the cleaning company Kavarna. He makes the protocols by which he legitimizes the clean trash, and the mayor pays for the invoices. [[Replying and banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u13	Mr. Gurnevsky, I'm asking for Delyan Dobrev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u14	The brother of the Mayor Ivaylo Ivanov performs landscaping of various sites in Kavarna and so on and so forth. There's a Bulgarian fairy tale that says, "Before you look at the straw of the other one in the eye, see the beam in your eye."
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u15	And she's big.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u16	And why are they attacking Haskovo? Why Delyan Dobrev? Because, first of all, Delyan Dobrev is a worthy Bulgarian politician and parliamentarians. [[Applause from GERB.]] Second, at local level Delyan Dobrev, bringing together the organization in Haskovo, defeated the Communist Party in Haskovo region. [[Applause from GERB.]] You don't have any mayors in any of the towns. Beat them the way Germany beat Brazil at the Brazilian World Cup! [[Applause from GERB, shouts "Bravo! "]] Because Delyan Dobrev, in addition to being a respected man in Haskovo, is also a highly responsible and dignified man. With the act of resigning, he showed this. Delyan Dobrev is highly respected as a professional, as an expert in his field and all of you who work on energy, recognize him and vote on his projects, which he proposes here in the laws. Yesterday, people from all over the country called...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u17	Organized.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u18	Personally, I have a few texts that say: "Make Delyan remain a parliamentarians because he is extremely important for energy reform! [[Applause from GERB.]] Divide, my friend, I beg you not to fall for these low communist ruses and tricks. [[Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Their goal is to eliminate you, because one of their great goals is to reach out to energy, where the millions of people sank in the Golems of Belene. That's what they dream about, that's why they want to suspend you. [[Applause from GERB, laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And you have no right to give up this place. I once retreated just like you..... from attacks against me, gave up my place, came their mafia in Plovdiv. For four years they gave the town to Gergov to the oligarch Gergov, a member of the Communist Party and its leadership and district leader in Plovdiv. Please, your children, your family will understand only when you stay. You are needed by this Parliament? not by our parliamentary group, by the entire parliament, you are needed by Bulgaria. Please don't jump off the ship, the ship that leads Bulgaria to the promised shore of civilized Europe. [[Applause from GERB.]] If you jump off this board, do you know what awaits you? You won't be able to get to the water! Red sharks will rip you apart in the air! [[(Laughter at the BSP for Bulgaria. (Applause from GERB.)]] They'll enjoy your blood so much that the pack will keep rocking this ship, hoping they'll still fall off this board. We have no right to retreat. [[Radio and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So please, please, if you have the strength, in the name of Bulgaria, in the name of your children, your family and their fellow citizens, who all stood behind you, withdraw this resignation! If not, I call on all worthy parliamentarians not to accept this resignation and this worthy parliamentarians to remain not in your place, ours and another name, but in the name of Bulgaria! Thank you. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. A line or a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u20	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u21	Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u22	Mr. Chairman, if you allow this dialogue to be conducted from now on, it has already become a comedy, but the little remaining authority of the National Assembly that we have will finally leave. You are the President of the National Assembly and you represent him now. You several times made a quiet remark to stick to the subject. You've been timid, be brave, because that's the authority you have to protect. If you can't bring order now...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u23	What kind of procedure is that?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u24	It's the way it's supposed to be. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u25	If you can't bring order now, it will become a comedy. And Mr. Gurnevsky, we know it, he won't surprise us with anything. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u26	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. When you sit in this place, you have the opportunity to lead in the way you propose. [[Applause from GERB.]] Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the opposite sense in which my colleague Kutev pleads, because in this debate we need to reveal the truth, we need to protect our colleague, we need to talk about parliamentaryism. It's a comedy, comrade Kutev, what you've been doing for over a week.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u28	What is this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u29	We're listening to the procedure right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u30	Please, Mr. President, let's follow the Rules of Procedure, so that every Member of the National Assembly can express his position. Yes, it's an emotional debate, but this emotion was triggered by an unholy attack, with a low attack. [[Radio and shouts: "Eeeee" by "BSP for Bulgaria", applause by GERB.]] Therefore, colleagues, you will hear our position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u31	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you are.. People's representative Anton Todorov. [[Laughter, excitement and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u32	I'm back. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u33	You have the floor, Mr. Todorov. Order, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u34	To lighten the atmosphere a little, you should know that I'm like the mummy I don't eat, I don't sleep, I'm not from this world and I always come back. [[Laughter and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] To the horror of the Reds. A moment ago, a man spoke, who is one of the most insolent and insolent people I have ever seen in my life. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u35	Please, Mr. Todorov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u36	When he was on board at the EON, then you didn't squawk at him for receiving four-figure salaries. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u37	One moment, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u38	For a year and a half I've been trying to get Mrs. Cornelia Ninova to answer for the deal on the Technoimpex. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u39	Please, Mr. Todorov! On Delyan Dobrev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u40	Was she involved in RMD privatization? Mrs. Cornella Ninova. [[(bourn reaction from BSP for Bulgaria (bourn response from BSP for Bulgaria))]] Were you involved in Privatization of RMD Technoimpex? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u41	Mr. Todorov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u42	Here's the contract! This is the contract with which Cornelia Ninova buys an entire foreign trade firm for the sum of 70 thousand. The dollar. We have two questions: where did this money come from in those poor times? And is it morally privatizing foreign trading companies for pennies? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u43	Mr. Todorov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u44	This is a post-privatization control report deposited in courtroom 2002, in which at a hearing...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u45	Mr. Todorov, I'm asking for Delyan Dobrev's resignation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u46	... Cornelia Ninova has been tried. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In this report, there are very serious charges of breaking the law. If you're part of the problem, can you be part of solving the problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u47	Mr. Todorov, I'll take your word for it if you don't talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u48	If you're part of the outlaw-manager privatization, do you have a moral right to be there? Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u49	A line? Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Dobrev, I want to give you an example of my sports career. Back in the day, I entered the professional kickboxing with a very severe loss. It didn't stop me from believing in myself and moving on because I knew what I could do. I knew what I could give to sports, I gave it to them, and I managed to get three world titles with amateurs and a world title with professionals. [[Applause from GERB.]] I know what you can do for Bulgaria and what you can do for our team. So please don't leave our team, because every single person on this team supports the rest of us, and that's how we're going to move forward. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm not going to support your resignation because I've only just met you, but what I've seen is enough. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u51	Thank you, Mr. Valev. Mr. Manoil Manev, the line. Let's see what you disagree with.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Colleague, I'd like to make a line for you. Tell our esteemed colleague that in our sports no one leaves when he knocks out the opponent, no one leaves the ring, does not get out of the ring and throws the towel in the ring when he throws them in the knockout and when they have no other chance! [[Private applause from GERB.]] Tell him that because that's what it's like in our sports. Dealers don't go into battle. Only real champions and real men enter into battle. He went into battle, threw them in a knockout, and it all happened after that. There's no such thing. [[Applause from GERB, excitement and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u53	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u54	The hardest thing about sports is standing up after you've fallen. I think Delyan will be able to stand up, unlike many of those people who, if they fall, will not stand up. So, Divya, get up and move on! [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u55	Are there any other statements? The word has the popular representative Valentin Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u56	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to reduce the passions a little bit, and I would like to recall a story written by Plato in the State. She's an allegory. Socrates created this allegory by talking to Glaucon. It is an allegory for the cave, where people at an early age were attached facing the wall of a cave and on the other end were burning fires. When people were tying them up, they looked like giant giants, and if a puppy passed by, it gave the impression that it was some kind of monster. It's been years, and those people who have been attached to the wall have begun to believe that they live in a world of giants, in a world of monsters. If a person accidentally unties himself and goes outside, if he doesn't go blind from the sun, in this case he will think that this world he sees is not real, but the real world is the other one in the cave. If he looks at his own image in the water, he won't know it. This is the same: if you have a cousin in the municipality, say that the municipality is full of relatives. It's the same thing: to say that there is a parallel state, but actually this parallel state to create it by talking, with an image, and to make people believe in this thing. Where does the meaning of all these problems come from? More ancient religions, such as Zoroastrism, such as pavilion, are based on dualism, i.e. a creative power and a destructive force. The creative power that can create, which can produce ideas that can govern, take on responsibilities, and the other that has always sought to be creative, but cannot, is trying in any way destructively to destroy everything that is created by creative power, to create other images, other parallel states. The creative power Delyan could always create as ideas, solve the problems accumulated for years in energy, which, I would say, was bankrupt when we arrived. Together with you, of course, we have made it so that it is already stable. So, as he succeeded with his name, with his authority to win the elections in Haskovo when he created a model that could work in Haskovo much better, and at one point comes the destructive force that must destroy. It cannot create new ideas, new policies to say: this is better. It can only spoil, destroy, and say: You are like us! No, we're not like you! We're the ones we create that people have given their trust to. [[Applause from GERB.]] When you set up a team and when you show what you've done, the other power just tries to downplay this thing, destroy it. Departure, my friend, we need you all. I hope very, very, very much that you stay here because we need you. Not just us, and they need you. That's why they said they didn't want your resignation from parliament, they wanted to show a pattern. What model? That you have a cousin in some community you didn't hire?! Which you didn't hire! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not to mention the Law of Conflict of Interest, which you have long delayed. He had to be accepted, and eventually he was accepted. Why didn't you include the following categories of conflict of interest? Because a lot of Kummuks and Kummaks ruled. Not that they had no qualities, I didn't say anything, but why didn't you include it, and now you're talking about conflict of interest? There's no such thing as conflict of interest when it's not listed in the Law. I think you should change your mind, and we're all behind you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u57	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor not to defend Mr. Delyan Dobrev. At this moment he has the support of the Bulgarian citizens, the people. And she's far more important to you than my voice against your resignation, by the way, which you don't want. I want to address all of you, all of us who are in this room together. We're all looking at all those who are outside this room, and they're expecting something from us that they've sent us here for. I'll try to tell a very short story. I hope to tell it well. If not, excuse me for wasting your time. Imagine I'm holding an apple. In essence, this apple is a juicy, delicious fruit. If I don't like apples or for any other reason, such as anger or envy, I crush this apple, it by its nature, splitting, remains a juicy, delicious apple, especially for those who recognize it. Ladies and gentlemen, when you walk your way and meet apples, even if you don't like apples, you can just pass them. And if you make the mistake and still crush them, please don't carry them in your pockets. Don't keep them too long. Don't show them to people, because people will always see the true essence of the apple, juicy and delicious fruit, but there is a risk that they will begin to perceive you as crushed people. Our society does not need crushed politicians, regardless of which political party they are. And best of all, when we find apples, even if we don't love them, we find someone hungry and feed them to them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u59	Thank you, Mr. Sirakov. Do you have any lines, colleagues? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The act of today's resignation is political. It is an important political act because it is a standard of conduct for everyone. It should be for everyone, those are the standards. Maybe you're silent because you realize what's happening today. You too must be subject to this standard from now on. A few months ago another GERB MP resigned after suspicions, not a conviction. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Suspicious! In the last few days, you've spilled shit, black PR. Unfortunately, Mrs. Yoncheva has become an instrument of this black PR. In the name of this, you may be thinking of winning some political dividends. You didn't win anything, be assured. No one's ever won a black PR. No one's ever won from debauching. You're going this way, but I want to tell you that you're moving against a train and you're in Moscow. [[((Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] And this collision won't be easy. We won't give up on you. What Mr. Dobrev is doing today, personally, I think it's rather an emotional act. However, he has the right to his own opinion. But from now on, I expect resignations from your parliamentary group. There are people out there who are not for this parliament. There are people connected in a kinship with members of the Politburo, with families in your party. Did you find to talk about families, with your whole party being 15 - 20 families: Lucanovas, Pirinskis, Bokovi?! [[Applause from GERB.]] 20 days ago you all explained that Mrs. Bokova had nothing to do with her husband. [[Applause from GERB.]] The same you explained this thing, and now you say: "It is not moral! " Yeah, it's legal, but it's not moral. Let's pass a law where cousins have no right to do anything. Isn't morals supposed to be with the law? What does morally, immorally mean? I've heard and I've put you in a position, by the way, when you say, "No, we're not because of our qualities, not because we're someone's grandchildren." We have become such ones because of our qualities, and I have agreed in some way with this. But you go out and say, "Some cousin appointed just because she's Delyan Dobrev without knowing her." I didn't hear that she was corrupt, that she was incompetent, that she was bad, that she wasn't good for the job. If we're going to set such a standard, I hope you first set a standard in this direction, because we obviously have created it already. But I don't see him with you. I see you're enjoying a political victory, destroying the public image of an honest and competent person. It's your tradition. That's what you did on September 9th, destroying the fit and competent. [[Applause from GERB.]] This is an old custom of yours, and you are always happy when this happens, but this day is not good for Bulgarian democracy. It's not nice to overwhelm decent people. Everyone loses to it and people lose, and we lose, and you lose. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u61	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Do you have any lines, colleagues? Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As chosen by the Bulgarian people, we represent him in all his diversity of family relations, of political accessories, of ideas. As we all know, the Bulgarian state started with the Dulo family, so the family cannot be a source of negative connotation or negative assessments. We have a complicated history as a people. The famous Bulgarian families of the Renaissance have restored statehood, supported the church, supported each other, inhabited close properties in the village and in the town. They built fences with loopholes, called each other Komshulus, so they could gather together, communicate and respect each other. I would like, despite the sharpness of the political moment, to find that measure between political and personal, between political duty, public interest, broad frameworks of public morality and, of course, our party opposition, so that we can more dignity, preserve the personal dignity of the people, get out of this situation. Mr. Dobrev's resignation is an individual act, his personal will and expression. It seems to me that he has judged it so, and it is best, after he has judged that it should be allowed to be treated as he sees fit. We are heirs at the moment of a difficult period of our history. The transition period, which created many oppositions, many conflicts, very sharp sections........................................................................................................................................... I think today the wisest thing we can do is stick to procedure. To abandon the inappropriate historical comparisons of people who think metaphysically about Bulgarian history and will never reach another level of analysis and try to emerge as a parliament, as political parties on dignity from the situation. What are the peculiarities of the particular case? I will stop by a few sentences, I think, what is the opinion of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and on which our political position is based. More than two decades ago, the Bulgarian Socialist Party then, calling itself a Communist party, gave up the model of the party state. We were the party that initiated the current Constitution and created multiparty governance. Here I want to address our colleagues from GERB. When you started creating your party, you used the country to build your party. [[GERB lines.]] You made a rude historic mistake and merged the party with the state. You used the state resources to build party structures. This is a historic return and a mistake of a strategic nature. The Bulgarian Socialist Party may have relatives, there may be a variety of relations in this there is nothing, as I said in the beginning, reprehensible. What GERB should do is to proceed to the most decisive step from the perspective of its future party development - to separate from the state, to start looking at the political process in Bulgaria and the Constitution as authentic documents that confirm the modern Bulgarian constitutional liberal state. These are fundamental differences. That's not the question of cousin, cousin, sister or maid of honor. This is the issue of the structure of the political organization. BSP has come this long way in the century and more to reform and reach the state in which it can be present in Bulgarian politics seven, eight or ten years in opposition and remain an idea political force that defends specific political ideas and goals. Our party members are in this party not because they hold certain positions in the municipality, and not because they have received any benefit for it. Often times... [[SIGHS AND CALLS FROM GERB]] On the contrary, they're being hunted for this. And that is why I believe that the Bulgarian Socialist Party today is entitled to raise the issue of the model, which has been established in Bulgaria for ten years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u63	After you created it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u64	Dear Bulgarian athletes! I believe that the achievements in sport, with my greatest respect, are an expression of individual will, strength and spirit. Indeed, one must fight for victory and I believe that we, as a people, as a state and as politicians from different parties, are all fighting for victory. Everyone wants the good for Bulgaria. My request is that we do not turn politics into sports in such a way that we often understand it. Sports is a noble cause. The sport serves the noble cause. Sports is an Olympic movement. Sports is also nobility. Sport is also an aristocratic view of competition and human improvement, and I therefore believe that there is no place to interpret it in our modern Bulgarian political life. Thank you for your attention. [[(Extreme applauses from BSP for Bulgaria.) Bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, bravo, ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Surprisingly humble! A deep political lecture. It's just that in the gym... Why are you holding phones? Do you have the right to take pictures when you're in the gym? You work for fake news?! [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u67	Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u68	Chairman, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u69	A line to Mr. Zablyanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u70	Was that a change of position, Mr. Zablyanov, or a straitjacket you'd like to wear today? It's neither one or the other! I'm asking two things! Mr. Zablyanov, you as a politician and as a lecturer with a diploma for one, give me a definition of morality and relate to your party. You, Mr. Zablyanov, are you not ashamed for the entire transition, for all the time you manage, and we individually, that your wife is making civil contracts and siphoning funds from the Ministry of Education and Science?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u71	Please! Please, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u72	Aren't you ashamed of that, Mr. Zablyanov?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u73	Please, Mrs. Dukova! It drains, what...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u74	Colleagues, I will accept your humility for two reasons. First of all, because we've let your people rule as well, even as deputy ministers. Second of all, because I think we've taken the wrong liberty! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u75	Second line? Mr. Anton Todorov. [[(Radio in the BSP for Bulgaria............................).................................................................)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm just gonna go over Snowy's information with some other information. [[Voices and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u77	Mr. Todorov, a line to Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u78	Yes, a line to Mr. Zablyanov. One and a half years after joining the Ministry of Economy and Energy Yvette Zablyanova, Head of the Directorate of European Competitiveness Funds, has still been managing private companies. That's what Nina Radeva, former Deputy Minister, said. She commented that Mrs. Zablyanova has filed a false declaration of conflict of interest. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] What Mrs. Dukova said is absolutely true. The contract's worth $7200,000. BGN, during the time of GERB. For what reason, with what eyes, you have the audacity to talk about conflict of interest?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u79	The mummy has no eyes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u80	No! The mummy has no eyes, but it takes the eyes of the brazen like you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u81	Please, Mr. Todorov! Please don't call from the gym! Is there a third line? Mr. Zablyanov, will you answer? Are there any other statements? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As I told you, there's a danger of this becoming a comedy, it looks like vaudeville already. The vaudeville, frankly, hasn't started yet, has started for a long time. So I'm going to try to put things back where I think they should be, because these calls: how, to whom do you leave us, mate, my friend, come back and so on. Mr. Dobrev, I'm sorry, I hope I never get into this situation so that these people can protect me, because that's not in your favor. Let's see what we're talking about from there, Mr. Dobrev. With all the understanding, because, believe me, I have an understanding of the way you feel right now, I know it well. A huge part of this room has been going through ups and downs and we've been in a situation where they've been throwing stones at us. I've been in a situation where my daughter couldn't go to school because there were people standing in front of her classmates screaming that she was red trash. We've been in many other situations, not to mention them. I know how a person feels about this situation. So, frankly, so far, I have refrained from making abrupt statements simply because I am clearly aware of the human situation. But if you're still having this conversation here, it's because it's beyond the human situation. Then we'll go back to the human situation again. What you have to say to your children, because I can give you advice on what to say. I've spoken it in front of my daughter, and she, despite everything she's been through, is still doing politics at the moment in BSP. [[Arrival in GERB.]] Here, make sure that your son, with whom you have problems, continues to engage in politics afterwards. If you can. If you have the power and the morals. From there on, what is this case about, and what are we here for? We are gathered here for the fact that one person you say you don't have a sister, but we know you have a cousin. This cousin, through her husband's firm, separately, that she is the head of the Finance Department in the municipality, and he is a municipal councillor and chairman of the Financial Commission, let's say that in some way they do this because they are very capable. That's your, what it was like, the team that you've somehow assembled. How did you put it together? Another question. Why exactly you and why exactly around you, this is a separate matter? We'll deal with him later. We're assuming that this woman, absolutely respectfully reached her husband's bar with her husband, but it's a fact that in the last 19 months only in Haskovo, only her husband's company has mastered about 40 million. Thirty-six million leva there alone, in the region of Haskovo has mastered the company of this person with whom you are directly connected is not to know him. It's not true that you... something works there. I have cousins too, but mine don't do that. Maybe mine are more incompetent than yours. That'll be the answer. Either way, that's 36 million. Does the National Assembly have to deal with this? In my opinion, when you have this relationship, should anyone seek the answer to whether this relationship is controlled, does this relationship in any way harm the public interest? I think I should, and that's what my colleague Yoncheva does. Except you're trying to get Elena Yoncheva out of some black adept at spitting. Why? Because he's asking you the resonant questions. The question is, do you know this man? Did he ever join his wife's firm in your position? I mean, do you have direct relations with him, given that you are a member of the region, and he in that time, in the last 19 months, I said, has mastered over 36 million in the Haskovo region? From that point forward, do we have a commission in the municipality that violates the Civil Service Act? And are you related to this? Does it make sense to clarify that question? Let's let the question be answered, but you're telling us we shouldn't bring it up. All those who cried out: "Don't leave us, for he is honorable. He's decent. Mr. Gurnevski, most likely he has a direct relationship to the prosperity of He has been disbarred, drawn into his capacity as a defendant for committing a crime under art. 219, para. 4, Temporary para. 3, Temporary para. 2 of the Penal Code. That's the thing... if we're talking about the extremely respectable man. I don't want to question Mr. Dobrev's integrity now. I mean, what we're talking about, we need to talk about it, it needs to be discussed. Citizens need to know it, they need to have an opinion, and we don't have to give the verdict, because there are bodies that need to do it. It must be done by the court and the citizens, and someone must tell these citizens what happened. That's exactly what Yoncheva Hanım did. All this campaign you've done against Elena Yoncheva, well, I apologize for the expression, it's pig-shit! I apologize for the expression! Everything I see in the daily repetition, stigmatization and defamation of Elena Yoncheva's image. Mr. Dobrev, you must feel guilty that you led the campaign that messed up Elena Yoncheva. Now let's get back to what you want to explain to your children. To tell you the truth, this is a very difficult situation. I tell you, I've fallen into it. I want to tell you that while you were a minister, Borislav Gutsanov had entered the bedroom above the children with rifles. And they arrested him. If you do not know what to explain to your children, he then condemned Bulgaria in Strasbourg. Mr. Tsvetanov knows because he was the reason. If you don't know, call Bozhidar Gutsanov and ask him, Mr. Dobrev. Did you just find out that politics, unfortunately, works the same way? Were you not also in power in this party when Nikolai Tsonev was brought down to his knees in front of all Bulgaria and asked him: "You are a full criminal, and so on? Did you not know that this is done by the same party that is now calling you: "Whom do you leave us to? " - Where was the moral imperative when this was happening? What did they explain to their children?! If you don't know what to explain to your parents, then ask them! By the way, for you, I don't know how the cases will end, I hope they end in your favor. But their deeds ended in their favor. Everything that happened to them then happened in front of their own children, in front of their own relatives! It happened in front of the cameras with a former minister's knees down. Weren't you part of GERB then? Didn't you know this was happening with your grace? You were a minister, I think, at the same time. And here we go to the next one. Against the background of all this, you go out and say that the mayor is a terrible ingrate because you made him mayor, and he goes against you. You have neither constitutional nor legal right to make anyone mayor. In fact, this whole thesis of how, you see, well, I'm sitting there with an MP and they were all my classmates because I'm from the elite Haskovo high school. Excuse me, but there are people in this hall from the elite classical high school, from the elite German, from the elite English, from the elite Russian. What, we don't have classmates? Are we going to measure our classmates? Why don't our classmates have the same problem as yours? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Well, when he gets out, do it! And why, in the background of all this... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let's try our classmates. For example, I claim to have more famous classmates than yours. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Probably?! Let's measure them! You want to make a list? Why don't they connect me to my classmates? Because I never allowed myself in any way for a classmate of mine to be tolerated by me. I didn't allow it. There isn't one! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let's get back to this all of a sudden you, in this case, state yourself that you made him mayor. I apologize because you were at that time both MP and regional chairman. Wait, this situation isn't just about you. I've also been... [[Relations from the National Representative Delyan Dobrev.]] No, no, you didn't say that, you said otherwise, I listened carefully to you the other day on BTV. I have also been like you MP at a time when we had a mayor in Silistra, we had a governor in Silistra, we were in the government, at that time I was a district president of the structure in Silistra. Here you have two MPs from Silistra, one from the Patriots and the other from GERB. Why doesn't one of them show a relative of mine, a classmate of mine, someone connected to me and assigned to Silistra? Because there are principles!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u83	Because you're not from Silistra.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u84	So what if I'm not from Silistra? I may not be, but I can assign him to the Ministry of Economy. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] When you tell me that, you see, all this is the normal course of history, I'm telling you it's not. That's why we're losing them! Because you're hiring, and we're not. Because it's not that I don't know how to appoint a city chief, it's not that I don't know how to influence a mayor when you're in charge, but I wouldn't allow it. I'm not getting into this thing while you're in this case. That is why this is actually a matter of the National Assembly. Because it's a model issue, not Dobrev is this model. This is the GERB model, this is how you exercise power. That is why this problem is at this conversation in the National Assembly, so this problem is important because you cannot appoint a mayor. The mayor is elected no matter what your role is in the election process. Last, I wouldn't have allowed myself to make all these speeches and talk about it if it hadn't been for all the spitting against Elena Yoncheva. What you've allowed yourself to do, you've moved the entire machine of the state as far as possible, I'm not saying that you can do much, you're not people with unlimited opportunities, but what you could do. This is incorrect, it is completely contrary to the interests of the citizens of the state because Elena Yoncheva asked the resonant questions. These questions must be asked and they must be answered. I wish you a good answer. I wish you the court to stand behind you. I wish you'd come to the end of your work. Many people in this room have gone through the cases, driven them 7 - 8 years to finally come to an acquittal when they have already finally been spit out and thrown out of politics. This is the model I do not recognise, and this is also the model GERB. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u85	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. The line, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u86	Honourable President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kutev, I will make this line because you mentioned in your statement that in addition to the judgment on every case, each person will also receive the assessment of our fellow citizens. I want to remind you and wish each and every one of you to have the courage, first, to appear majority in any election and to perform so well in front of your compatriots that you will receive the support of 430 thousand. Bulgarians as independent, not as support for certain political formations. Why am I saying this? Because you mentioned a name that you have no right to set as an example in this House because it harms your party, parliamentaryism, political life in general in Bulgaria. You mentioned the name Borislav Gutsanov. Yes, he won the court battle, but lost the battle with his fellow citizens. [[General applause from GERB.]] Let me just remind you that he, as a candidate for a Member of Parliament from your political power, lost in his own city, where he was a regional, city president, lost the battle with preferences from his apparently better political colleagues. Not being able to get the support of non-Varnans, members of your own party, to get the support of no more than a thousand people, that's the downfall, and that's not the court case. This is the attitude of the Bulgarian people towards political representatives. Therefore, when you give examples, consider not only the finals of a certain person's judicial battles, but also what support he receives in society after his long-standing political activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u87	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u88	Mr. Mareshki, I haven't tried to protect Borislav Gutsanov for a moment, not for anything else, because it's none of my business. Gutsanov has his history, he has his ups and downs, but the political results are no argument in this conversation. Because for now you are still on the ascending line and you are one of those who, expected or not, entered parliament. I, as a person who has entered, have come out of parliaments, from guides and from a bunch of other places, I want to tell you that the higher you go, the higher you fall. This is something a politician should always have in mind. If you're on board, you'll fall. I said that because the fact that Borislav Gutsanov fell is what happens to everyone in politics. Unfortunately for me, it'll probably happen to you, and it'll definitely happen to me. So the argument that, you see, he had lost some choices and that they hadn't supported him there is not the argument that says: The machine guns are passed after a court decision, and then they passed before the court decision and, basically, it was all really dramatic for a lot of people, and it's not the only one. I mentioned two examples, I can mention dozens more if this is the conversation. So the question here is that we don't have double morals. Knowing that when we experience it very deeply in person again I tell you, Mr. Dobrev, I have done it and I know how to experience it personally, but knowing that our actions in many cases have led to the same and to realize that we are not just here for one day, or if at least we want to be like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u89	Mr. Kutev, he's personally affected, first of all, Mr. Gurnevsky. Here's a personal explanation, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is immoral for a fellow Member who spoke earlier to speak of his classmates, his friends. Well 50 years many of your classmates may not have reached positions, but only the children of those who were privileged by art. 1 of the Constitution. [[(Noise and lines from BSP for ……]] You're talking about people being arrested. Arrested, court-martialed, and received their profoundly just sentences. There were arrested and insolent killers, thieves, drug dealers who were in prison. It's a matter of power. But you can talk about court and judgment when you killed 30,000. Decent Bulgarians without trial and judgment is a gross violation of Bulgarian morality.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u91	Fascist, you're a total fascist. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u92	Please order in the court! Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u93	Mr. Kutev, you tried to insinuate that I said something about Mrs. Yoncheva and that we almost threw dirt at each other. That's not true! I didn't say a word against Mrs. Yoncheva just because there's no need. There is no need, because I believe that my role in Parliament and politics is in making policies. Not just against Mrs. Yoncheva, against any of your MPs or any of your MPs, I have not said a word to slander them because this is not the right thing to do. If you have any doubt about the morality of anyone, if you have any doubt about the legality of the actions, there are institutions in this country. If not, I am sure that at least me, if parliament becomes what it has been for the last week to throw mud and dirt at each other, I will not miss it. That's what I wanted to tell you. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u95	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Members of the National Assembly, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. Chairman, once again, we urge you from the BSP parliamentary group to adhere to the Rules of Procedure. You gave Mr. Gurnevsky the floor for a personal explanation. Did you hear what he was affected with? Yes, this man is affected, he has some problems, but these problems are not caused by the statement of Anton Kutev or anyone. This isn't a tribune to confess some former, unsatisfied passions. This is parliament, here a person gets up and defends himself if he is personally offended, and so is the rule of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u96	He's been affected by birth.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u97	You give the floor to who, where, what he wants to say, come out here and talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u98	Please, without qualifications, what do the MPs say?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u99	That's how I qualify them, I think. Because when you say things unrelated to the subject, they're anything but the truth. I mean, bullshit. From this point forward, I ask you, when Mr. Gurnevsky speaks, to keep a strict watch on whether he follows the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u100	Not only Mr. Gurnevsky, but every single member of parliament, how it was personally affected, I have no way of knowing in advance. Let's hear it and then we can... Come in for a procedure, Mr. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u101	Mr. President, honourable Members, I know that under the Rules of the National Assembly, I have no right to request an end to the debate, so I address you with this call: to stop turning the National Assembly into a place where we throw dirty underwear at each other. If some of you have been interested in the history of Bulgarian politics and know it relatively well, they will know very well that the bulletproof principle of governance of Bulgarian society and state exists since the Liberation. Since the Liberation, even in communism, when he ruled art. 1, the bulletproof principle, called in the Bulgarian policy, has always mastered society. So these things that we're dealing with, I don't think we can end these debates, destroy them, stop them, because they're very complicated, very heavy. It wasn't my decision, it wasn't yours. I call on you to put an end to this debate again, because with these problems that we blame each other for, there is an authority that is involved, it is called the Prosecutor's Office. Instead of making speeches from here, we make signals to the D.A., see what she does. Please, the level of our debate has fallen so low that it can no longer fall! Please stop this nonsense! [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u102	There's no way I can stop it, so I'm leaving... Mr. Philip Popov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think there is a way to put an end to this abuse if you follow the Rules, namely, Art. 57 of it, and take away the floor when it is not about this topic. I understand that you will not be able to participate in the benefit of Mr. Dobrev organized by your party GERB, but please stick to the Rules. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u104	Whether it's a benefit or not, we're about to see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Please very much, the item on the agenda is an interruption of the powers of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev. I'd like to say I don't want to be in his position! Why don't you respect his will? He himself said he would resign. Why are you trying to argue, not with the power of argument, but with the arguments of power? And you came from the dark communist past all the way to the Egyptian tombs? One of you even said he was an alien?! [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] We could check it out, we could, with a simple sharp needle. Let me tell you this, fellow Members. Mr. Dobrev is a young man, and I sympathize with his situation, but he said in national media that he would resign. [[GERB's line.]] . She said something else... Please, Mr. Chairman, tell this gentleman not to scream! If he wants to come here to measure his strength, I'm a former athlete like my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u106	Please don't call from the gym, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. If he wants to come, let him come! I want to tell you something else. You're distracting me, but I'm not as soft as you think. Mr. Dobrev in the media said I was coming from a meeting with Mr. Borisov. A moment ago Mr. Borisov, again on national media, announced that resignation is a moral act and should respect the desire. Are we doing a theater here now, Mr. Chairman, or are we discussing an item on the agenda? If I were Mr. Dobrev, I would stand here on the stand and by the power of the arguments to disprove what Mrs. Yoncheva claims about me. Unfortunately, that's not true. Please, Mr. Tsvetanov is present here. He was a week ago... He's waving nicely with his hand. You've got a nice swing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u108	Please, Mr. Velkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u109	A week ago, he said he called for parliamentary speaking, not to have a language of hatred. And we are witnessing something that speaks precisely and only of this. So I call Mr. Dobrev, if he has the strength, the valor of a young man...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u110	He's got it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u111	I'm sure there is, I'm sure of it, coming out here and saying, "Everything that's said about me is not true, and that none of these people have been assigned since I've gone to the steps of power." Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u112	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You have lines. Here you go, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u113	I will be brief, I will say two sentences and they are as follows: I suggest we shoot Mr. Dobrev [[Laughter in GERB]] in line with BSP practice [[Applause from GERB]] . Take out the vending machines headed by Yoncheva, give out blood, you want blood? That's the story. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u114	Please, Mr. Kasabov, you will force me to punish you for calling for violence. There's a text like that. Someone won't understand your sense of humor. Second line - Mr. Tasco Ermenkov, and third line - Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u115	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Velkov! You are wrong by making an assessment that colleagues from GERB withdraw or deviate from the debate. On the contrary, they are having exactly that debate, which is inherent to them to defend a policy of nepotism, and I can prove it to you not only with Haskovo. I'll give you an example of Gabrovo. Tomislav Donchev's brother is the head of a municipal company.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u116	Mr. Ermenkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u117	Former MP Mihov's brother is on the board of directors of the hospital. Deputy Mayor and Head of the Department of Economic Development in the municipality are brother and sister. Gabrovo's district is Deputy Director of the Ministry of Interior Gabrovo...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u118	Mr. Ermenkov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u119	And her father-in-law is an advisor from GERB. So that's what they do, protect not Mr. Dobrev, but their policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u120	Mr. Ermenkov, I didn't take the floor just because it was your birthday. Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u121	Thank you. The third line is Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u122	Dear Mr. Velkov, I can be very sharp, I can talk a lot, but today I will refrain. I'll tell you why Mr. Dobrev resigned. Because he's a moral man. Because when they pour so much shit on you, he has nothing else to do. He will be blamed for not doing the right thing. But I will say this: Division, on behalf of my structure in Kardzhali, on behalf of your structure in Haskovo, you have no right to leave this parliament!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u123	Mrs. Karayancheva, to Mr. Velkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u124	...because, Mr. Velkov, Delyan is a quality man. Because in these elections, knowing all those circumstances Mrs. Yoncheva said, 37 830 people voted for him. [[Applause from GERB]] and he has no right to betray them to please Yoncheva, Ninova, or anyone else. Because you don't know who will be next the way you work. You've gone as a crowd of municipalities to search for...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u125	Please, Mrs. Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u126	...the dirty shirts of this one and that one. Is this going to be next... And who will be next if we give Delyan? We don't give Delyan! We will vote against it, I will vote against it! Colleagues, I call on you to vote against Delyan's resignation [[Applause from GERB]] Because it's not his personal act, he's being cornered right now and he's covered in shit. We must wash his face and show these people that they do not rule the country, because they do their best not to see the good practices that are happening after the 640 million that were given for educational infrastructure! Is it good for them to hear this thing? [[Applause from GERB]] ? Or all the good policies our government makes? Therefore, we must not allow this man, this quality man, to leave parliament! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u127	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. For the doppelganger, the People's Representative Slavcho Velkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I do not know what caused the reaction of the charming Mrs Karayancheva? I wasn't kidding, but she went to the belkanto, which is not typical of the vocals. [[Laughter and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] . I didn't say, ma'am, that Mr. Dobrev is not a good man. Not at all! I just said if he's a man on the spot and he's done a moral act, he's gonna come out here and defend himself, and he's not gonna sit on the bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u129	We're not a court of law!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u130	Please, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u131	I don't know what other singer called, it sounds a little... But the chairman will probably make a note of it. So let's be exact and stick to the item on the agenda again. If he doesn't want Mr. Dobrev to defend himself, let's go to the vote! Once again, I will say that I did not give Mrs Karayancheva any reason for such a powerful attack and I will be forced to defend myself, my dear lady, by the power of argument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u132	And I thank you, Mr. Velkov, and make you a remark about the insult of MPs with terminology that is disrespectful to colleagues! You have the floor for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u133	Mr. Velkov, I'll make a statement. However, I take the floor for a personal explanation because you are trying to impress on the National Assembly and the Bulgarian society that because I do not explain myself to Mrs. Yoncheva at all, how can I tell you, slanders that she has brought against me, I almost admit guilt. I'm not admitting any guilt. I have stated many times that Mrs. Yoncheva and I will see each other in court, and not only for slander but also for indictment. [[Applause from GERB]] Because in the last few days, she has come to find me in business interests, in companies that used funds, and someone helped them without revealing the whole scheme. I hope he reveals it in the D.A.'s office, in court and so on. Mrs. Yoncheva, I will also judge her for the indictment, but if you think that I will engage the National Assembly in responding to Yoncheva's slanders and wasting valuable time, it is beneath my dignity. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u134	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u135	Please extend the time. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to introduce only a factual clarification in the debate, as it resembles a clash between government and opposition. The opposition that wants to Omaskari to attack, naturally to extract a political dividend from the situation. However, let us note what the facts are, and the facts are very clear. Mrs. Yoncheva, with all due respect to her, hasn't shown any facts. They've been in the public domain since March, I think. Two media "Bivol" and "Mediapool" carried them out, and we can accuse them of anything, but not of sympathy for the BSP. Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov himself spoke first of the party, even in his words, the parliamentary appointments, and I think this is sufficient reason for a debate in the National Assembly. BSP has not started this discussion, so colleagues, please stick to the facts.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Krastina Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Many times we have heard from politicians: "God saves Bulgaria!" - Six months earlier I was wondering why we rely on God when these are our politicians? Today, with this debate, you are once again proving why we should only pray to God! When there is a scandal, about whatever it is, none of you are the parties of the system, of the status quo, the ones who have brought the state to this state, which is currently not going out to speak with facts and does not go out to defend yourself, and the only arguments it uses in its support are: "And you are the same!" So, really, we must only pray to God and now I want you to understand why Volya was all the time against the empty political speaking of the status quo. Why, thanks to whose cousin, the Vratsa hospital is about to go bankrupt? Thanks to whose best man is closing the Stara Zagora hospital? These are the topics we should be looking at, not the man Delyan Dobrev. Because Delyan Dobrev is part of a party, and we're not talking about people here. It's the people in this parliament, isn't it? Did the people in Haskovo get hurt? Let's look at what is happening in Haskovo, what is happening in Gabrovo? Not you, how bad you are and how bad you are. We know that, you don't have to prove it to us every day. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u139	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! First, please extend the time of the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u140	It's already extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u141	Secondly, I'll take the liberty of saying a few words. Today, once again, we're watching another bad show. Another bad show! Much more applause here than in the theatres in Bulgaria! And all this, if it didn't look like a mud and shit factory, I probably wouldn't have called. Professor Stanilov let me down when he called. Colleagues, stop this debate for one simple reason. First of all, I don't know if you know I was born in Dimitrovgrad. My family is from Haskovo and Haskovo is not an indifferent city. Secondly, I know Delyan Dobrev well. I'm asking, what evidence makes him feel guilty?! What crime did he commit that you are looking for such an account today?! [[Noise and lines.]] Isn't it the D.A.'s job, or should we turn everything here into a machine to pollute people?! He's a young man. Do I have to tell you today why my grandchildren left Bulgaria in a successful business of my son and are taxpayers of another country because of the same mud! It's the same mud! Colleagues, is this the Bulgarian Parliament?! These are the problems of the Bulgarian people?! A young person who should have the prospect of developing today to wrinkle it because we have purely political biases. Today some of you are speaking as hygienics almost at the same mud factory. Colleagues, do you have such a short memory that you forgot Monica not Lewinsky, but Stanisheva, who distributed the advertising portions of Bulgaria [[Applause from GERB]] And he created media groups that wouldn't even leave me alone?! Did you forget that Divizieva even appointed a minister and the minister appointed a TV director as chief of staff and eventually multiplied?! [[Applause from GERB, laughter, excitement.]] Today Hohegger is in prison and Monica and Divisieva are in Brussels! What are you accusing him of?! What do you blame this young and promising man for?! Come on, I'm 66 years old, I'm leaving tomorrow. Four mandates I am a member of parliament, however it may seem to you that I am a Bulgarian minister for seven years. Did they attack me a little bit about Largo, our National Museum, and the ten theaters I renovated?! Shut up. Don't you have any dignity to say that something is done in this country?! I once told you one line, and one line to a man who is in the room: four charges against Tsvetanov. What is this place where we remind who's being accused of what? Is he in jail? Is he acquitted? But I told you that if you had one Tsvetanov, you wouldn't lose the election and watch so empty. [[Loud applause from GERB.]] Therefore, Mr. Chairman, today I appeal to the conclusion of this debate. Let us stop turning into artists and jesters in front of the Bulgarian people. Enough show programs are running in Bulgaria that demoralize society. Divide, now I'm going to answer one of the people who blamed you for having morals to give yourself up because it was a personal act. It's not a personal act, you're a people's choice! I was in Haskovo, people love you and you don't have the right to resign! The people will ask for your resignation when they have to! [[Applause from GERB.]] Your chosen ones will want it. Haskovo loves you, mind your own business. It's a battle, and it's a war. Don't get emotional cancer like me. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u142	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. For a cue, the public representative Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u143	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Rashidov! I'm making this line because we from the Political Party can't afford to get us into this theater. You mentioned in your statement: "Let's stop this theater! " The theatre, however, does not do it to us, the theatre does it to you, we are an audience, and the whole Bulgarian people is an audience in this theater. I dare you to say that as a small part of the Bulgarian people we are disgusted by what we see. We do not know at all why this debate is being held and we expected it to be terminated long ago. Just to say that he practically started with MPs from your parliamentary group. If they hadn't spoken, there wouldn't be any lines from here. [[shows left side of the hall]] We would have expressed our opinion on the matter by voting as it is on the Constitution, as we have always done. We simply urge you to stop this theater! You're not calling us because we're an audience in this theater.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u144	And you'll still be an audience!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u145	I urge you to really stop this theater and let us proceed to a vote! Because there's a girl here, for whom I've wanted the word a few times in the manner of conduct, I'm going to use my speech. Mrs. Dukova, if I remember your name correctly... [[Noise, laughter and lines.]] It was not long ago that all the parliamentary groups had gathered for a noble deed to help disabled children to have a more dignified future. But you abdicated and didn't buy one of the carts your parliamentary group was supposed to buy. That's how you didn't really help. You have no moral right, in principle you have no right by law to replicate from a place, not to mention the nature of the lines, and you have no morals to call, because for such a moral event you abdicate, did not participate and had no help from your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u146	Lie, lie!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u147	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Any other lines? Are there any other lines? Hole, Mr. Rashidov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u148	We didn't just buy, I gave money myself.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u149	You'll have a chance to speak, Mrs. Dukova. [[Noise and lines.]] Please, not from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u150	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I said the words: "The theater, a lot of applause, and the whole people are watching." Here are all the media. This debate is beneath the dignity of the Bulgarian Parliament, not to mention that it is a great insult to all Bulgarians. I ask you again: what do we do with the person Delyan Dobrev, the laws of this state or the bread of Bulgarian citizens? And as for donations, don't, don't be honored! Then let me explain. I personally, when I came back from Germany, sold an entire exhibition and gave it to children who had cancer......................................... BGN, if you're interested in the amount, of Children's Oncology. I personally helped Velko Kanev one month to be treated in Germany by this same disease. I helped Gogo from Tonica to go to Israel for a month. I helped Coco Azarian operate in Turkey. [[Applause from GERB.]] I helped Peter Guzelev from the Crickets to heal him in America for a month. I helped him to go to America for a month on the gallows of Nikolay Petev. I helped Rangel Valchanov. These benefits, when made from the heart, I did not declare them. I've been quiet, I've decided. You have so many pharmacies that I think you can help the entire Bulgarian people. Why don't you take some medicine?! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u151	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mrs. Dukova, please explain the donations and you, a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines.]] Please don't call from a place so you don't give any excuses for such lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Mareshki! I would very much like to shout here, Mr. Kutev, and I hope for the first time in my life that he will tell the truth. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u153	Well, not like that, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u154	Mr. Kutev, this initiative is about a specific case. This initiative began with our joint desire with Mr. Kutev to make it. She was a co-worker. We were all in front of the people with the carts. There first political party GERB bought the cart. Secondly, only Snezana Dukova gave a personal donation to support this organization. After that, Mr. Mareshki, it was you, but you were after me. And on this tribune, if you start with lies, you'll end up outside this tribune and you'll never be on it. Don't lie! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u155	Are there any other statements? Delyan Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u156	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I request that my authority be terminated as a representative of the National Assembly for the slanders and suggestions that have been made by our opponents in the last ten days at my address. With typical cop techniques, they gathered a variety of small truths from which they tried to put together a sinister picture of the outside. They did it. Politics has never been a goal for me and neither has power! I have refused to be nominated for various electoral posts, including a minister. I've been led by my own understanding of where I'm most useful to society. Looking back, in these ten years, there are many things I am proud to have done, and I can share with you. My proposals are in the Law on excises and tax warehouses together with colleagues. Mr. Glauchev was among the importers. Ordinance No 30 was made from the proposals and the measuring instruments were installed in the country. We limited together with colleagues from BSP and DPS the development of the water sector, which threatened the financial stability of energy. We have made numerous changes to the Energy Act, selected an independent composition of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, created a new pricing model with which we removed 800 million. annual chronic energy deficit. We have progressed towards market liberalisation again all together. These changes have been voted on by 100 per cent of the plenary, which I am extremely proud of! We didn't argue because we all knew it was the right thing to do. We all did it together. The same applies to the Law on the Public Offering of Securities in order to stimulate the development of the capital market. Again, a bill that has been passed from the entire hall together. The Law on Investment, the Law on Underground Treasures, the Law on Protection of Competition. I was one of the initiators of the establishment of the Capital Market Development Council. I was the initiator of a comprehensive reform concerning reducing the administrative burden. In my period as Minister, I'm proud to have started research on the deep Black Sea. It was my personal cause. We have attracted the largest companies in the world: "Total", OMV, "Repsol", "Shel", who study the deep Black Sea and not only explore it. "Total" are in the final phase of the exploration activities, they proved the presence of oil last year. If not by the end of this year, at the beginning of January 2018, I am convinced that they will also report the presence of gas. This gives Bulgaria a future. And I am proud that with my signature as Minister, a deep Black Sea survey is launched on my initiative. We have suspended the project "Belene" which was financially unbearable for the state still is! We agreed on better conditions under the South Stream project. We signed a new contract for gas without intermediaries and at 22% lower than the old contract. Never in the history of Bulgaria have we signed a new gas contract, which is at a lower price. We've always been priced up! [[Applause from GERB.]] This is the first contract to cut the price. The financial effect from then until now is 300 million. USD per year in favor of the Bulgarian industry and the Bulgarian business. Only last year I received awards for a person who contributed to limiting and preventing the informal economy from the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria. I also received a prize again in the last year only for a person with the greatest contribution to the development of the capital market in 2016. I have received great support in the last three days and I am extremely grateful to everyone who sent me texts, created Facebook groups, came up with declarations in my support, held press conferences. This is the real assessment of my work. I'm proud of what I've accomplished! Thank you all for this unprecedented support for an ordinary politician like me in Bulgaria. Mrs. Yoncheva, I will be remembered in politics with everything I've done in these years. Some of the things I've said from this tribune, with the respect and support of the people I've received in recent days. And you will remember yourself as my executioner and murderer in politics. [[Applause from GERB]] Without trial or judgment, as you of the Communist Party know. You asked, Mrs. Yoncheva, what will I do from now on? I'll tell you as it concerns you. The first thing I'm gonna do is look for my rights in court for everything you've done to me and my family. [[Applause from GERB]] To find out, Mrs. Yoncheva, it's not 1945 and you can't unpunished the uncomfortable ones. Thank you. [[Extreme applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. MP Delyan Dobrev! Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the resignation by colleague Delyan Dobrev for many reasons. I'll just say some of them. Firstly, because the resignations submitted by MPs are voted on in most cases even without debate. In order to resign a Member of Parliament, he has his motives. Sometimes they're public, sometimes they're not. It is also his right, and it is also the right of the MPs to make or not to debate. I will remind you, because here is a second precedent that in the history of the Bulgarian Parliament for the entire transition there is only one case of unspoken resignation, of non-disputed ones. I think this was at the Thirty-Sixth National Assembly, the MP from the DPS Recep Chinar.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u159	Valerie Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u160	I don't remember Valerie Petrov, it's possible this case is the same, but we know about this case. At that time, all parliamentary groups outside the DPS did not vote on this resignation for other political reasons. Later he resigned again and actually left parliament. The resignation is indeed a moral act when it is judged by the people's representative or when there are other motives. Today we heard the Prime Minister say exactly that at a press conference. We will support this resignation because we accept it as a moral act. Mr. Dobrev, we have good collegiate relations with you, and your qualities as a specialist nobody challenged even by the opposition, but our voters do not like in Bulgarian politicians, and all the years after the Liberation, as colleagues have said here, although this has become a tradition................................................................. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u161	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u162	So it doesn't matter what a person does as a specialist, what he does as a MP. When there are such facts, and obviously there are, the act that you have taken is right in our view, and that is why we will support it. I believe that this debate today was unnecessary, he struck another blow on the rating of the Bulgarian Parliament. If you'd allow me even to use heavier words, though I wouldn't want any of that tribune. What happened here today turned the meeting into vaudeville and tone gave, to the greatest regret, your colleagues from GERB. However, Parliament is not a cabaret to play here vaudevilles and any other performances. For this reason, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms did not take part in the debate, but I, as an MP from Haskovo, am obliged to express the position of our parliamentary group that we accept this resignation as a moral act and will vote on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u163	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. [[Applause.]] - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u164	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We, as you have noticed, have also not taken part in this debate, which some of your colleagues have described as theater. Personally, I'm really sorry Mr. Dobrev that it was on his back that the whole circus was played and all these shits were poured out in different directions. Yeah, really, it's a personal act. Personal acts are also when governments issue resignations to the Members of the National Assembly whether to accept it or not. In this sense, I would say that we, the parliamentary group of Voljas, will not support your resignation as a personal attitude towards you, but as a principle, because we believe that Delyan Dobrev is not the face of the nepotism in Bulgaria. In fact, it may be a very small example of the much more severe problems that you have told us in the debate itself what is happening in different municipalities, in different state offices and so on. However, we would support, for example, a bill in which the Ministry of Interior, the State Agency (National Security) or some other law enforcement body (s) not so at portions, but to determine the group of MPs, mayors, municipal councillors, for whom just in the fastest way there are all of them in the masses, to come out and each of these people in power, ministers, to tell each other the links to which knee we will decide again here in parliament. Therefore, we will not support Mr. Dobrev's resignation, but we will support such a bill, which will illuminate once and for all all the relations of all the people who are currently in power and who, respectively, in the future, will not want to go back to the past, but those who hope in the future will be. Once again, I would just like to express my regret for this debate and what is happening on Mr. Dobrev's back in terms of the other support he receives, for example, from Mrs. Dukova. No way, I'm gonna mention your name because, Mrs. Dukova, there were five carts. Two of the five carts were sitting in my office. We bought two. If you have also purchased, someone else has not purchased. I think you're lying openly here, but worse, you're calling me a liar.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u165	Mr. Mareshki! Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u166	That's why I'm looking for my rights in court. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] for this insult for a liar to prove that you actually lied here in front of the entire Bulgarian people and the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u167	Thank you, too. I hope you're not explaining the case in the stands. Yes, thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u168	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to wish every politician who resigns to receive such public and parliamentary support. I want to tell you, colleagues from BSP that we should have a historical memory, because when GERB was established, GERB started in 2006 from nothing. In 2007 and 2008 you created crisis headquarters only to discredit the then Mayor Borisov and the future government, which was coming for GERB. You didn't make it, but you did turn on your dissolute behavioral style. I will protect Delyan Dobrev, because I went through this road that you want to outline for him. Because in 2013 in the election period, when we were for parliamentary elections, your then leader submitted an anonymous signal against me that the catchers were listening and were listening to politicians and businessmen. The only truth was that there was a similarity to the names that were written and nothing else than what was laid out. I've been through this hard road, but I won't let Delyan Dobrev go the same way. [[Applause from GERB]] . Because what you're trying to do is charm a young, respectable, knowledgeable, capable man. Bulgaria needs such MPs! Bulgaria needs such people because you recognize that it has such qualities. You have entered this mixed war. Weeks ago, months ago, when we built the Forty-fourth Parliament, I turned to all the parliamentary groups: But, honourable Members, what you are currently aiming at is to deviate from the successes made by today's government. Did either of you come out to say what happened in Varna? It's a sign meeting! Three prime ministers of Greece, Romania, Bulgaria and the president of Serbia! Isn't that the goal that we politicians have to make and aim for peace, understanding and actually be able to move towards unification of common policies that we can make in the region? Why don't you want to make common policies? Because you don't have that awareness! Mrs. Yoncheva, I respect you as a journalist in the past when I've seen your reports. Do not do an honor to a journalist to enter into this mixed war, because Delyan Dobrev is a decent man, has a wonderful family. His mother, just so you know, taught at the Mathematical School of Physics, to President Rumen Radev. Is that reprimandable?! No! And you see the difference between you and us?! I can tell you that because you are talking about all these evils that have happened and which are happening, fellow Members, you understand that much more are the things that can be brought out for you? I don't think this is a way of making politics. Anyone who has their qualities must prove them here in plenary, participating in the legislative work. We will protect Delyan Dobrev and will not allow him to leave parliament because we know [[Applause from GERB]] that precisely this parliamentary group together with the United patriots and those MPs who will protect Delyan Dobrev today will have to defend the cause..Bulgaria, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov and the cabinet... Borisov, because it is the successful cabinet that will lead the country forward and the policy that makes for good neighbouring, respect and not to make any state of great because we are all here together. That is why we should also be as politicians not to be great, but to know that we should work only because of the interest of Bulgaria and the regions that we represent. I will vote against Delyan Dobrev's resignation [[Applause from GERB]] and I call on my fellow Members to vote in conscience! However, I also call on these colleagues from the BSP, whom I have spoken to and said that Delyan Dobrev is a decent person and should not leave Parliament, should they also do so in conscience! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u169	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any lines? A line from the National Representative Krastina Taskova. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u170	Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, no one contests, as you said, the professional qualities of Mr. Dobrev, but there were very difficult questions here. Is this a GERB model or not? And it is you, as chairman of the parliamentary group of GERB and as vice-president of the party, that should be the answer. In fact, are we really defending the man Delyan Dobrev or the model that's nepotism? Is it there or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Any other lines? Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Tsvetanov, it would be nice and commendable to remember history, it would be nice and commendable for everyone to be responsible for their actions, for their policy consistently all the time, because no one has forgotten the time in which you put labels, Mr. Tsvetanov, the time of the shows, the time of the accusations, one after the other. So when you choose this tone of Kashpirovski, with which you are trying to oversleep the people's representation, and by the way you are making a very dangerous suggestion about the suggestion of the party-state, remember that Bulgaria is still a European state, democratic. The people are choosing, by the way, from your speech, and you are not building the National Assembly, thank God! As for the act of resignation, I ask myself from that day: where were you with this violent emotion when your leader was resigning? But apparently everyone loves Delyan, so thank you. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u173	Here you go. The third line is Atanas Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I am making a line not because in 2007 you had foreseen such a path as Delyan Dobrev for me, presenting to the Attorney General, then Boris Velchev, manufactured evidence and I promised to seek my rights in court, but I waved with my hand. I'm not making a line for you because you had planned something like this for me, and I'm making a line for you because we're at a very difficult time and I think you probably don't understand some of our arguments, probably some of them aren't served like people. In my opinion, GERB is doing unfairly with Delyan Dobrev, really based on his expertise. In my opinion, your argument shows that you want to gain some political dividend from the moral act he makes. I want to assure you that there is something you should thank Delyan Dobrev for. Believe me, there are feudal systems, there are feudal networks. [[GERB lines.]] Probably our mayors, too. The sooner we split up with this model, especially now, at the beginning of the Presidency of the Council of Europe, the faster Bulgaria will move forward. So I think the thing you should thank Delyan Dobrev for is that he showed morally how this should stop. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u176	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! What is the reproach of what you made as accusations to Delyan Dobrev? He doesn't have a sister, you talked about his brother-in-law all the time. Do you understand that all that you are saying and about this feudalism, this will clearly be your motto in the upcoming elections 2019. Just so you know, before the parliamentary elections, you also spoke a lot of nonsense. Prime Minister Borisov resigned because it was the political decision we made. I have to tell you that throughout the campaign, here are our fellow MPs, people have asked us, "Why have you resigned when we have chosen you and we have voted for you and not those who want you to resign?" [[Private applause from GERB.]] Because yesterday, when I was in Haskovo, you can't make such a hall with such spontaneity as energy. [[Laughter and lines in "BSP for Bulgaria."]] Everyone said, Mr. Dobrev, the votes that voted for you are here. Let's see how Elena Yoncheva voted because she has her electorate and they vote for her. Therefore, honourable Members, it is the elections that decide. And as for feudalism and the labels you want to stick, just to tell you: go to Provadia, go to Bolyarovo, where you give them as the emblem of your government, to see real fear of feudalism. [[Private applause from GERB.]] I'm gonna stop here because I don't think it's right. The elections will be the ones who will determine who to govern in a democratic way, not in the way of dirt and pouring shit that you can do best. As far as the colleague of the DPS is concerned, respect for your opinion is yours and you express it in Parliament. I'll refrain from answering. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. To speak, the people's representative Cornelia Ninova. [[Arrival in GERB.]] You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many have appeared in today's discussion, one of which was that this debate is unnecessary, that we have wasted our time and shown the bad face of parliament. I don't think this debate is unnecessary if we had done it right. You say: why do we deal with domesticisms rather than people's problems? Because what you call "bitualisms" are one of people's biggest problems. How? Who among us does not know that our people hate their politicians by all political powers? Who among us does not know that the people reject the status quo and the street will give birth to something else? Why? Because our people are convinced that we come to politics not to work for it, but to benefit ourselves or to benefit our families. The case of appointments, relatives, with the ladybirds, with the boards is yet another proof for this people who hate their politicians because they send their relatives to the boards to be rich. Is this a problem for our people, and why do we not comment on this model of government? Why is that a problem? Because young literate, educated people go to a competition, they don't win it, because it's already set up for a relative, and this guy gets on a plane and goes to Europe. Then we say: why do we have a demographic problem, why do we lose the young? Why is it a problem for the people? Because while a member of the board of a relative gets 5000 leva salary and rides in a Mercedes for one board meeting per month, a woman has nothing to feed them. [[GERB lines.]] Why is that a problem? Because it gives birth to a obedient administration that in elections goes into formation and reproduces itself in the same political class. So 27 years of transition! Second thesis of telling the truth, pointing to facts, pointing to the handicaps of the government turned out to be darkness, compromise war, cop, that is, if you have a different opinion than that of the government, you will feel the full power of the state machine. Is that a problem for the people? Which one of you hasn't been to the villages where people say, "We're afraid to give our opinion because they're going to kick my son out of work?" In Wolf Dol, because we're going to have elections, they stop bringing them food from Social Services if they have a different opinion. [[GERB lines.]] I heard that and saw it with my ears and my eyes the other day. Well, is that a problem for Bulgaria and statehood? ▪ Obedience, silence, and fear, otherwise power will tell you that you are a dark man, a policeman and so on. So we can't have investigative journalism, can we? Are you going to tell me that Elena Yoncheva was made a journalist on a motorcycle?! Which one of you, dear men, was in Iraq, Afghanistan, Sudan, Somalia, when you were so brave? Is this the woman who did journalism on a motorcycle? [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So the people will be silent and the journalists will be obedient?! And if a journalist dares to do investigative journalism, he's not a journalist! Is that a problem with our statehood? It's a problem. Third, you say, and that was the scariest thing you've said: if we give Delyan now, who's next? Therefore you are many such in a system and in a pattern and let's hold on tight, because if one falls, unravel the whole bag and we all go! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] This was said by a man from GERB: do not vote for the resignation, because if he falls we all go. So we're all like him. Isn't this thesis scary for statehood in Bulgaria? So one group has mastered the entire state system and is holding onto the entire state machine because if one leaves, you all fall. It's the people's problem, and it's not domesticism. Next, by rejecting today Delyan Dobrev's resignation, you will protect Boyko Borisov. No, you will thank Boyko Borisov. And as leader of the leader, I tell him today, if he listens to us. [[GERB lines]] As a leader who has received blows in the back from his own: Mr. Borisov, today will happen to you for the first time, your today is downloading you! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]] Not literally, but figuratively today GERB removes you from the pedestal you are standing on! And I tell you as a leader: from now on you have a serious problem not only in your party but with public confidence in you! [[GERB lines.]] The next thesis, perhaps the hardest one, has been 27 years, all the parties before us have done so, so we do the same. [[GERB lines.]] That is: people, these 27 years, where all the political parties they milked, we continue in the same way. Worse, we have read the following statement: If I have to again, I will offer my relatives for these posts. That is, even if we continue to rule, we will continue in the same way. That's the difference, fellow Members. You have called on us to make common policies, but we cannot do them unless we clear the basic foundation on which this country has existed for 27 years now. That's the difference! You say: this is how it has been throughout the transition, so we will do from now on and don't blame us, because you are the same. Yes, all the political parties of the whole transition have behaved in some way and so the people deny the whole political system and status quo and seek something new. The difference between us is that the new leadership of BSP and the new parliamentary group of BSP wants to end this model of transition [[GERB lines]] , which we have called a "parallel state" and the fight against the parallel state is not darkness, but dignity of political power. Thank you. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're adjourned. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u180	Not the sitting, the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u181	Of course the debate. It's okay. [[Radio.]] Do you have a procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u182	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u183	It's too late to say anything. If you'd like to come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u184	I want a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u185	You do, but I've already closed the debate. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u186	You closed the meeting, not the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u187	If I've closed the session, you can't speak at all. [[Laughter]] If you want, give the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u188	Thank you. My fellow Members, I wouldn't have taken the floor. But since there have been debates for almost two hours, Mr. Dobrev, I feel a personal obligation to address you because I may have been the first person to call you on the phone and tell you that you are burning in politics. And you're burning up because your leaders used you today. You've been used! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Why, colleagues? You've been used for three reasons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u189	Give it to me, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u190	First, it became clear today that there was a merger of the party with the state. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The only problem that is becoming clear here today. The second problem that comes out today, and should be like the earring of all politicians, is that in the management of all institutions we must respect the law. The rule of law! We all don't follow it, Mr. Dobrev, that's why you were used. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The third problem that has arisen, colleagues, is the distribution. It's about the distribution of portions. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] It is for these portions that you are currently distributing on all floors of the institutions, starting from Silistra and reaching Kardzhali. Mr. Dobrev, today with the resignation, you are not solving either the problem of the merger of the party with the state or solving the problem of non-compliance with the law, so your resignation does not solve your problem. But as the big politicians say, your staying in politics doesn't solve the problems I told you about. My respect to you! Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u191	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Let me say something first, as it is in the manner of conduct. [[National Representative Julian Angelov speaks away from the microphones.]] I'll be able to speak in the manner of conduct before then, if you'll let me, of course? May I have your permission? [[Laughter and excitement.]] Thank you. The address should be to me, but I will allow myself to say that GERB has no experience in distributing portions. They're distributed somewhere else. [[Voices: "Eeeee!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u192	Mr. Chairman, my procedure in the manner of conduct that I asked for is because you allowed a representative of the DPS to use the procedure in the manner of conduct to make a statement and to suggest things related to feudalism, nepotism and portions to the rest of the political parties in parliament, given that this is a patent and founders of this are the DPS of shrubadajanism, feudalism and portions, from the beginning of the 1990s. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u193	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. One more procedure in the manner of conduct. Please state further procedures in the manner of conduct to determine whether to vote or to give a break.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u194	Mr. Chairman, I want to tell you that you are not leading properly because you are allowing many point points of support to be placed on the agenda, and now we are talking about Delyan Peevski. The new anchor point is the merger of power. Some people have not understood that GERB is a ruling party and power is in GERB. Who do you merge what with?! The real power currently belongs to GERB party, won the elections. They have the responsibility, they have the power. [[Applause from GERB.]] I don't understand your point of reference?! The power is on GERB at the moment, until the next elections. When the other elections come, GERB once again wins, it will still be in power. That's the way it is. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u195	Since the procedure is still in the way of conduct, just to clarify that there is a ruling majority, it is not only GERB. [[Noise, laughter and excitement.]] Are there any other procedures in the manner of conduct? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote the draft decision that I presented to you before the debates. They voted 216 MPs: 98, against 95, abstention 23. The draft decision shall not be adopted. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Revoting?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u196	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-voting procedure. Some of my colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria and I saw that they could not vote because they were only 77. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] The colleagues from GERB do not want to support my resignation and I ask for a re-vote. Colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria, if they can be more organized to accept my resignation, which is a personal act, and I really want it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u197	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. It's a re-vote. Vote 215 MPs: 97 against 99, abstention 19. [[Applause from GERB.]] The draft decision has not been adopted. Delyan Dobrev continues to be the MP. [[Applause from GERB.]] Take 30 minutes off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u198	Dear colleagues, we are continuing today's session. In view of what I communicated to you at the beginning of this meeting, and in view of the decision of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that point seven, which we have included in the Programme, should be considered now as point two. I propose that we move items on the agenda now to examine the termination of the Rules of Procedure. The point which was voted as 7 at the beginning of the meeting, in view of the expiry of the deadline today. We are voting on the proposal made. There's no quorum. Name check: Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - absent Alexander Koychev Ivanov - absent Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - absent Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - absent Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - absent Anton Dinev Todorov - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - absent Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - absent Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - here Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - absent Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - absent Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - absent Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Diana Ivanova Yordanova - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - absent Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Zapriyan Vassilev Iankov - absent Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - absent Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigjar Sahlim Jaffer - Abandoned Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nina Peycheva Mitkova - absent Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - absent Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here We have a quorum. Additionally recorded: Alexander Nenkov, Alexander Paunov, Anna Alexandrova, Alexander Alexandrov, Anton Kutev, Atanas Tashkov, Andon Donchev, Valentina Naydenova, Alexander Matsourev, Alexander Siddi, Vladislav Nikolov, Venka Stoyanova, Vezdi Rashidov, Valentin Kasabov, Zapriyan Yankov, Jayhan Ibryamov, Mustafa Karadai, Nikolay Alexandrov, Daniela Daritkova, Milen Mihov, Dzhevdet Chakarov. Let's move on. We are voting on the point of the draft decision for the termination of the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, with the importers of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Manoil Manev to become point two, that is to move now to its examination. Vote 158 MPs: 152, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. This point becomes point two and the remaining points are renumbered according to our Programme. Moving on to: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO TERMINATE THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF A PRESENTOR, A REPRESENTATIVE, A SECRETAR AND MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS AND FOR THE STATEMENT OF THE PRESENTITY OF BULGARIAN CIVILITY TO STATE SECURITY AND THE INNOVATIVE SERVICES OF THE BULGARIAN PEOPLE'S ARMY. With the opinion of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order you will be acquainted with the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u199	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to thank my colleagues from the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order for meeting at an extraordinary meeting and today, what has been done as a proposal by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, in order to conclude the procedure normally, there should have been a meeting, as an extraordinary one, of the Commission, in order to find a place on today's agenda, exactly this decision that needs to be voted on. Because if the procedure isn't canceled, it has to end today and we can get into other hypotheses. "COMMODITY" on draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 754-02-75, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Manoil Manev on 3 October 2017. At an extraordinary meeting held on 4 October 2017, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed a draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Manoil Manev, No 754 02-75 on 3 October 2017. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed draft decision is to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, initiated by a decision of the National Assembly to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted on 20 September 2017. (Obn., D.V., No. 77, 2017) In his presentation, the importer stressed the need for a public debate related to the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, including the regulation of new and adequate functions of the collective body. As a result of the debates held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order supported by consensus the draft decision to terminate the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, No 754-02-75, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Manoil Manev on 3 October 2017, and proposed to the National Assembly to accept the following: ? RESPONSIBILITY? terminating the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para.1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED Ends the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, initiated by a decision of the National Assembly adopting procedural rules on the terms and procedure for proposing candidates for Chairman, Vice-President, Secretary and Members of the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly adopted on 20 September 2017. (Obn., D.V., No. 77, 2017(See Annex II to Regulation (EC) No The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly of... 2017 and is stamped with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u200	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u201	Thank you, Madam President. I really hope you don't give me a hard time this time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u202	I won't, Mr. Velkov. You're very sensitive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u203	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I would like to express my attitude to the proposal to terminate the procedure, based on what we see as the motives of the importer. He says so: stresses the need for a public debate relating to the relevant law, including regulation of new and adequate functions of the collective body, i.e. the Commission. In this regard, I would like to ask the importers when they had matured about the need for public debate...................................................................................... I will tell you why I will vote against it, regardless of how my parliamentary group advises me. Because Bulgaria is deprived of the unique opportunity for the first time at the head of the Commission to be president, who comes from another world, an alien, a mummy, and also a denominational one. [[Laughter and applause in the Bulgarian BSP.]] Notice, this is the second denomination in Bulgaria after the denomination of the Bulgarian lev 20 years ago. Thank you. [[Applause in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u205	Thank you, Madam President of the National Assembly. I won't talk long. Perhaps the Commission would have profited from my presidency. I am absolutely convinced of that, but from what I've learned, BSP, in addition to committing crimes, is deprived of a simple sense of humor. If you don't understand the irony of what I said at first, the more pathetic. I guess a lot of you are nervous about that because their wives are being chased out of their houses and others - because of a lack of simple sense of humor, and some are being expelled from the army for disobeying orders. Now look closely at that face. [[shows a copy of photo]] And why are they crying like a Saran bear against the Bureau of Records?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u206	Mr. Todorov, please don't use such expressions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u207	Saran bears roar. Okay, you're like a Carpathian wolf. Under here are the signature and stamp of the Bureau of Records. This face you see is Agent Peev of the DHS.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u208	This one's in uniform.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u209	He's in uniform later. Before that, he was an I.C.R. agent. Is that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u210	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u211	Okay! That's your opinion. This guy was an I.C.R. agent. Those who know the documents well know that the VKRs are doing a very unpleasant thing in the barracks. They didn't do anything else! But more importantly, something that I brought from the personal personnel work of the face that entered the Ministry of Interior at one time.....................the army in 1983 went to the Ministry of Interior, where they chased him for disobeying an order. The person Slavcho Velkov, the agent of the hateful institution here I do not know why the DPS does not respond to such elements, is expelled, notice what, for disobeying an order, and 1974 in the official characteristic of Lieutenant Slavcho Georgiev Velkov, Chief of Staff of the Second Motorcycle Brigade of the 78th Motorcycle Regiment writes the following about those who like to say who had not taken the pills.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u212	Mr. Todorov, finish up. Time's up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u213	At times, he exhibits frustration in the nerves that lead him to complex situations with bad consequences.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u214	Mr. Todorov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u215	If help is given to the same person and control is carried out, he could appear as... [[The President turns off the microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u216	Thank you. Next line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u217	Madam President, I am extremely grateful to Mr. Todorov for making such an advertisement for me at the age of 22 I was chief of staff of a brigade. There is hardly any such case in military history, except for the Serbian-Bulgarian war. I wasn't like that. When I was 24 years old, I was the commander of a motorcycle battalion, the First Echelon Division. Now let me tell this gentleman about the other one. [[The National Representative Anton Todorov comes out of the Chamber.]] Mr. Todorov goes out, leaves, notice, he's on the run. If anyone here or Mr. Todorov is able to bring my file here from Homeland Security, to bring a file, not cards and records, I've stuck a card on someone and my conscience bites me even now, I'll reward him with 10,000. lv. and leave parliament. That's what I wanted to tell you. Anything else. I am not against the Commission. On the contrary, I'm here to terminate the procedure, to terminate the procedure, to oppose termination of the procedure, that is to say to have a committee, only to lead with, as I told you, an alien. We can't talk about a man here anymore. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] This is about some creature from another world. That is, this Commission, Mr. Tsvetanov, will probably have a divine character. [[Laughter and applause in the Bulgarian BSP]] And I'll tell you why you're shutting down the procedure not because of the need for a public debate, but because you felt the public sentiment that the alien's candidacy wouldn't pass. Thank you. [[(Applause in BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u218	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You, if you leave Parliament, will lose the color of this parliament, so...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u219	People's love will bring him back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u220	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u221	Madam President, dear colleagues! I take the floor because now Mr. Todorov's statement inspired me as the book of the young Spas Gurnevsky, which I happened to encounter. I take this word in part and on a strange occasion because I am worried about GERB's party condition in this Parliament. I don't know what's going on! Just half an hour ago GERB Blame the Prime Minister and their leader Boyko Borisov...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u222	Don't try to make suggestions, Mr. Simov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u223	...by canonizing Mr. Delyan Dobrev for a saint, and now we see them blaming their candidate for the Bureau of Records without giving us any reason! Let me quote a title that I really liked last week because I followed, so, with inspiration, what GERB said about its candidate. The title is taken from the words of Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov, who says: "Anton Todorov is an exceptional person with perfect analyticity. And what has happened now that the perfect analyst and ptulalist has suddenly been removed from this debate and we come to some situation in which to postpone the Rules, to postpone the decision for the Commission? I really don't understand! I do not know what is the political reason for this! The only explanation is that GERB has already split into several rays and everyone does what they want. I'm starting to get really worried about what the state of the majority is. And when an opposition MP says it, it should weigh even more as an opinion. We have a candidate who declared himself a Hollywood monster, as the mummy, let's remind her that they always kill her in the end, she always falls to dust, but it's a Hollywood monster. And I'm starting to ask myself something else that's very important. Now we're talking here about mummies, the prime minister is talking about breaking meat and I'm starting to wonder is it a GERB party, or is it an episode of the show The living dead? Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u224	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Mr. Manev, you're welcome for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u225	Dear colleague, I am very interested that the biggest pain and suffering for a Bulgarian MP is what was happening in GERB at the moment. From the BSP?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u226	You're in charge, how can you not...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u227	I didn't call you from place to place, but that's okay. I'll tell you the rest. GERB therefore beats you at any choice you find [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] because when necessary, GERB wants to hear people and opens all possible parliamentary and extraparliamentary procedures to hear people! It's important to us! We're not excited about how many rays you have and how many directions and movements. For us, policies are important, and we're telling you this today, I don't know how many times. Mr. Tsvetanov told you at least three times today, and in time back, much more. Take care of your constituents in the city. Kardjali, if you know them. Take care of the people who sent you here to make policies and laws. Don't take care of us. We'll beat you again in the next election. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. Second line? I don't see a second line. Mr. Simov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u229	Mr. Manev, thank you for all your political advice. Don't worry about my constituents in the city. Kardjali. Because you said you beat us where you picked us. Interesting choice of verb. I first appeared in the city. Kardzhali and BSP don't say you won them, but you got a deputy from there. So don't write me a bill, don't watch us do what we do. We have achieved our success! Take it easy. [[Laughter at GERB.]] As for that, I keep asking the question. You're talking to me about how many times GERB had won, what they had done. I'm asking the basic question. When you heard the people, when you had such an opinion of Anton Todorov, why did you subject him to this humiliation and denomination procedure? After all, we have a candidate who, we should say, declared himself a mummy. You shouldn't have just lifted it up, you should have entered the Guinness Book of Records. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u230	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. There was a personal explanation from Mr. Gurnevsky, and Mr. Todorov afterwards.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u231	Today it became clear that the journalists from BSP are the most successful in making us laugh. Mr. Simov and he's a journalist. I recommend that he bring me my first book of poems and sign it, and I will read it from here about the delusions that are lurking in his head. Mr. Simov, I'm still writing about the Party today. You betrayed this Party! You have realized that the higher stage of communism is capitalism and you are already capitalists. Drive BMWs, Mercedes, Audis. You're standing there in... The air conditioning's on, you're sitting in the automatics. [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]] But you praise Russian politics. And to prove to you that I keep writing about you, unlike you, I continue, and you will regularly hear one answer this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u232	And we turn on the TV!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u233	Yes, for the Party: Ah, my beloved Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u234	Tomorrow, everyone with ladas!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u235	By the way, your Prime Minister Borisov promised for the lada...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u236	Quiet, please! Go on, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u237	My Partyo... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Stoinev, I read about the Party! Instead of standing up, you're talking. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] Ah, my Partyo, my love! Even though her damn mouth, Because you're still there, I'm driving here and I'm in charge. I'm going to write you softly. I'll sing to you, I'll vow to you, But once you stop breathing, In your way to hell, I'll kneel with pleasure. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u238	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. A second personal explanation wanted Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u239	Thank you, Madam President. Half an hour ago, I said this guy was affected. It's obvious. He recites poems about the Party from this tribune. Please take steps or don't give him the floor anymore. There's an emergency room... [[Laughter at BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u240	Please, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u241	There's a government hospital.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u242	I think Mr. Gurnevsky is in condition, I've decided and I've given him the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u243	We are a parliament and please follow the procedures! So when he comes out for the third time to recite a poem, take away his word! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u244	And don't mention it, and he won't come out. [[Radio.]] Here you go, Mr. Todorov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u245	I don't know what artists on the left are using what we give them as a ball. Think of something your own! Make some of it interesting. You died like mummies. Look at what you look like! [[Laughter at GERB.]] To explain why I gave up the nomination. Nobody exiled me there, and specify your points of support. I hope you will consult with Rumen "Gripena Radev," who is the master of the point of support, the same point of support you do. Why? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u246	Mr. Todorov, please don't do this to the President!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u247	Why? Because you're full of shit. Once that GERB banished me, once that I was banished. The second time someone pulled me out and humiliated me. There's no such thing. The truth is this in two sentences. I asked Borisov and Tsvetanov to go to this Commission. Yeah, it's my dream, and I was gonna pull out not just this face that they think is an anti-terrorist and stuff like that, I was gonna find him a case as safe as Agent Peev. And then let's see what he's been up to. ♪ 'Cause that face ♪ [[shows photo]] It's not an anti-terrorist. [[Laughter at GERB.]] The anti-terrorists, if they catch him, they'll love him through his pants! [[Laughter in GERB, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If he understands what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u248	Mr. Todorov, I'll take your word for it! I have to stop you! I have to stop you, Mr. Todorov! I took Mr. Todorov's word away. He didn't tell you by name, but you recognized each other. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go, Mr. Velkov. Here you go. Mr. Stoinev, I took Mr. Todorov's word if you noticed. I turned off the microphones. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u249	Madam President, honourable Members! I want to tell you this. I won't go into this individual's tone, but let me tell you anyway. A Bulgarian colonel cannot correspond with a private from the Building Forces. [[Laughter at the BSP for Bulgaria.]] As for the games, I quote him through the pants, he served in a construction unit working in the village of Germany. They'd pass without their pants, Mr. Todorov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u250	Mr. Velkov, please don't talk like that! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Colleagues, we are continuing our debate on the subject. Statements? Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u251	Honourable President, Members of the National Assembly! It's very funny when someone speaks. However, look that we are in the Bulgarian Parliament! There was an offer to cancel an initiated procedure. I just want to clarify. In this procedure until now, before this vote, which we are going to make in minutes, there is not a single nomination filed for either a chair or a secretary or a member. Everything anyone wants to expose here is untenable. It is not based on facts which may have been submitted as relevant documents in the Bulgarian Parliament. Colleagues, we had a very emotional start on today's parliamentary day. I know everyone's tense. I know everyone has a little more emotion than they need. However, let us land and know that we are in the Bulgarian Parliament and at the moment all that we are doing, do not think that it goes unnoticed. Let us not break the institution of the National Assembly, and let us indeed both by our fellow Members and by our fellow Members on the left, however, stick to what each of us may want to talk on the substance, on the reports and on the topics that we are about to vote on today and in the future. The proposal is to terminate this procedure. Yes, there really needs to be a public discussion. Because there were representatives from the BSP who wanted the closure of this Commission. This is a topic which has been presented in several Parliaments in a row, and I will quote here some Evtim Kostadinov, who said that perhaps the Commission had nine votes of mistrust because every proposal, when it was tabled, was rejected. I believe that we should actually treat the Commission with respect, treat those victims of communism with respect, but this should in no case be a common denominator for all those who are members of a party. Therefore, fellow Members, let us proceed to the vote if there are no reasonable explanations or the report that has been tabled and which is being put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Replies to Mr. Tsvetanov's statement? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u253	Mrs. Chairman! I'm taking procedure the way it is. You really took away the word of the MP from GERB Anton Todorov after the qualifications he made from the stands, but it is about two qualifications. One is with regard to the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u254	I made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u255	I get it. Which is unacceptable, and the second is a gross insult to the MP. I think he has enough reason to be punished with the most severe punishment. It is entirely within your authority and I believe that my proposal does not conflict with the Rules of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u256	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Procedure in the manner of conduct? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u257	Thank you, Madam President. You have indeed made a remark to the colleague, but a remark is made in accordance with our Rules of Procedure by the President to a Member of the National Assembly, who has addressed a colleague or colleagues with abusive words, gestures or threats. Mr. Todorov, however, addressed the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in art. 162 of our Rules, this is the most severe punishment. It reads: The President can remove for more than one session. Note, this is the most severe measure.. but not more than three meetings, the MP who insults the National Assembly. This happened here... members of the Council of Ministers, the President or Vice President of the Republic of Bulgaria. I think you have every reason under art. 162, para. 1 of our Rules to remove Mr. Todorov from the plenary sitting. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u258	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Thank you for your comments, but I reacted in a timely manner. There have been other situations where the Prime Minister has been attacked in an inappropriate manner. We haven't been able to get a coworker out of the room. For this reason, I have made a remark to my colleagues. So I believe that I have taken the necessary measures. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you are, Mr. Rashidov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u259	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Velkov, with all due respect to you, infinite respect for you, but the qualification that you made for the Construction Forces has affected me personally. I've been a soldier in Construction Forces, and unlike some of the parasites in the army, I've built the city of Pravets. And I worked on the concrete and the motel. So it's very insulting in shorts to compare me that in Pravets, while I build, while others eat baccarat, I'm a bad guy. As for Mr. Anton Todorov, there is nothing to ask for his punishment, because you have also responded in an unseemly way. On several occasions you qualified for Prime Minister Borisov. You want to impress here that there is almost a conflict between Borisov and GERB party. I won't, colleagues, as much as you'd like it to be! I have worked for seven years as Minister of Mr. Borisov and I can assure you: I have easier worked with no one in my life, even with my wife at home. Dialog, there is dialogue and unlike people who like the Spitzkomanda constantly act, Borisov has a conversation. Do not suggest to people that Borisov is some kind of dictator. He's not a dictator. I'm telling you personally. It was discussed with Borisov, there was a dialogue. Yes, steps are being taken in politics, forwards and backwards, but this is politics, what to do, we're not on display. It's politics. In the living organism, this is the way one goes, it is thought, a decision is made, so don't give qualifications, but rather, as Mr. Tsvetanov said, give on the topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u261	Only transport troops don't touch, because that's where I served.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u262	Don't worry. Can you, Madam President, tell your colleague across the street if he can speak through you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u263	Colleague Hamid, please, I'm making a note, don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u264	Dear colleagues, I would like to say to Mr. Rashidov, who is even more respected than I am, that I appreciate what Construction troops have done, they have built a large part of modern Bulgaria and I worship these people. If I have insulted him in any way, please excuse me, but I was quoting a specific unit that was known for its perversions. I didn't say anything else. And what Mr. Tsvetanov said, yes, I agree to return to the essence of the point, to the question. Let us be precise and not continue to speak with hate language. I understand, someone has a rich inner peace. When a man walks around all the time with my picture in his pocket, he either loves me or worships me. [[Laughter, partial applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thanks.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u265	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. A hole, Mr. Rashidov, will you use it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u266	No, I accept the apology.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u267	Thank you. Mr. Rashidov accepted the apology. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. We are going to vote on a draft decision which Mr. Tsvetanov read a short time ago regarding the termination of the procedure for the election of President, Vice-President, Secretary and Commissioners of the Commission for Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Please vote. Vote 181 MPs: 165, against 3, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we move on to the next item on the agenda: REPORT OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE EXPERIENCE OF THE PROCEDURE FOR THE SELECTION OF A NEW TYPE OF AIRCRAFT AND PROJECT FOR THE REPORT DECISION. The report will be presented by Mr. Hristov. Here you go, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u268	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote a procedure for extending the period between the first and second reading of the Social Security Code by seven days "to 11 October 2017, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u269	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Please vote on the procedure made by Mrs. Angelova. Vote 160 MPs: 158, none, abstention 2. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to read the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u270	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In its decision of 28 June 2017, the Forty-fourth National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly set up a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Implementation of the Procedure for the Selection of a New Type of Combat Plane. According to the decision, the Temporary Commission should be aware of all the facts and circumstances concerning the procedure carried out for the selection of a new type of combat aircraft; the actions carried out by officials to examine the proposed suppliers by the Parties; the responsibilities for managing the process and the procedure for deciding to complete the selection procedure by the Council of Ministers. The report presented reflects the facts and circumstances of the procedure for the selection of a new type of fighter aircraft in the period 2010 - 2017, presents the resulting conclusions and recommendations and is in line with the above-mentioned decision of the National Assembly. In their work, the members of the committee were led by the Internal Rules for the Work of the Time Commission to study the implementation of the procedure for the selection of a new type of combat plane adopted at the meeting of the Committee on 5 July 2017. In the preparation of the Report, the members of the Time Commission had at their disposal: - the documentation and opinions on the implementation of the Project, covering the period 2010 - 2017 (more than 320 clear documents and 56 classified), provided by the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance at the request of the President of the Commission. They are set out in Annexes 1 and 2; - a report with analysis and comparison of the Methodica for choosing an optimal option for the realization of an investment project "Acquiring of a new type of basic multifunctional aircraft" with a mathematical model for assessing the options for realization developed by the Defence Institute of the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Defence and Air Force on the basis of the Order of the Minister of Defence No P 249 of 1 August 2012 and refined by external independent experts in contract with the Ministry of Defence No RD-27932 of 22 April 2013, as well as the Methodica for choosing an optimal option for the realization of a new type of fighter aircraft. Dr. Venelin Angelov Georgiev in accordance with contract No 19 of 24 July 2017; - the results of the hearings held in the committee of five defence ministers........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The committee held six meetings, all opened and at them, besides accredited journalists, were attended by representatives of various state bodies and NGOs. Reason for launching the Project. The official basis for the launch of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft is the Air Force Development Vision, set out in the White Paper on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by decision of the 40th National Assembly on 28 October 2010. The project was subsequently included in the long-term investment plan of the Ministry of Defence by 2020 in the category of priority investment projects under the name: the acquisition of a new type of main combat plane and the provision of integrated logistical support. Normal base for preparation and realization of the project. The project was launched in accordance with the provisions of the Law for the acquisition, maintenance and recovery of the products for use of the products for use. In 2011 the Rules of Procedure P-3 were repealed and replaced by the Regulations for the Management of the Life Cycle of the Vehicle Products. The further implementation of the project shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of Rules of Procedure P-7. As a consequence, on 19 July 2013, Rules of Procedure P-7 were repealed and a regulatory vacuum was created in the implementation of the Project. In 2014, with the introduction of project management in the Ministry of Defence, an attempt was made to create regulatory regulation in the implementation of modernization projects. The most significant change in terms of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of combat aircraft is that the Steering Committee as a management body of the project at strategic level is closed and its functions are partly assumed by the Board for the management of a portfolio of projects. In practice, the project portfolio management board does not work as a complete management body and the vacuum during the management of the project at strategic level, resulting from the closure of the Steering Committee, is not filled in. From the very beginning of the implementation of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft is envisaged the contract for acquisition to be signed under the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. Stages of implementation and more important activities by years. The project started in 2010 and has not yet been completed. In 2011 the Minister of Defence approved. Three main stages of implementation of the investment project are defined: preparation, tender procedure and implementation. The first stage ends conditionally with the validation by the forty-third National Assembly of the Investment Expenditure Project. The more important activities carried out so far, conditionally divided into several periods depending on the results achieved are: Period 2010? 2013: - at its meeting on 9 February 2010, the Council on the necessary operational capabilities to the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria decided to launch a project "Acquiring a new type of multi-purpose aircraft'; - on 21 September 2010 the Minister of Defence established operational and tactical technical requirements for the new model of main combat aircraft for the Bulgarian Air Force and requirements for the preparation of personnel, developed in accordance with the Order of the Minister of Defence No OH-435 of 12 July 2010; - on 24 November 2010 a request was made for the acquisition of a defence product - letters were sent in the period from 21 January to 24 January 2011 requesting information to the United States for F-16 and F-18, Germany and Italy The replies to the request for information were received from March to April 2011: - a review of the infrastructure of the Graff Ignatievo Air Base from Sweden, Portugal, USA and Germany was carried out in the period August 2011 for Gripen, F-16 aircraft and new Eurofiter Transch 3, respectively; - a Project configuration package was drawn up on 3 September 2012. The configuration package is a basic document under the Project and is a list of the quantities of goods and services that the Ministry of Defence has a requirement to acquire under the Project. With it, the minimum number of acquisition fighters is set at 9 with one more of the stakes in RFI; - on 20 September 2012 are developed mandatory basic requirements for analysis and compliance with the possible options for realization of Project.. Acquire a new type of main combat aircraft and provide integrated support and basic criteria and coefficients for the development of a mathematical model for assessing the options for realization of the Project; - on 28 September 2012 a methodology for choosing an optimal option for the realization of Project "Acquiring of a new type of main combat aircraft and providing an integrated support; - on 28 September 2012 was drawn up a Mathematical Model for the Assessment of the Options for the Implementation of Project - on 22 October 2012 an analysis and risk assessment of the options for the realization of the Project was drawn up and provided for integrated logistical support; - On 26 October 2012 was prepared the Concept for Building Defence Capacity under Investment Project No 3 of the Investment Plan of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria until 2020. Getting a new type of main combat aircraft and providing integrated support. The concept includes the so-called short list of candidates who meet military requirements and approach, albeit to a different extent, the financial capabilities of the Ministry of Defence in the medium term. On the basis of the information provided in the RFI's reply, only the option to acquire F-16 was included in the financial framework of 700 million. BGN, but due to the requirements of art. 27 of the Ministry of Defence to consider a minimum of two options for overcoming the deficit of defence capabilities are considered three options for realization of the Project, meeting the most fully established requirements detailed in the approved by the Minister of Defence Concept; - on 19 December 2012 the Council of Ministers authorised the Minister of Defence to conduct negotiations to specify all parameters for the acquisition of a new fighter plane for the Bulgarian Air Force. On the basis of the results achieved, an investment cost project to be proposed to the National Assembly should be prepared; - on 29 January 2013, letters were sent to the parties from the so-called "short list" providing information providing for open and equal negotiations on the project. In the letters the parties are invited to improve their proposals given by RFI's replies; - negotiations were held between the countries of the so-called short list between 14 February and 1 March 2013. - a review of the infrastructure of the Graff Ignatievo Air Base from Italy was carried out in April 2013 for Eurofiter Transch; - in 2013 has been developed Methodology for technical economic assessment of the options for the implementation of the project "Acquiring a new type of main fighter aircraft and providing integrated support." Period 2014 - 2016: - in 2014 and 2015 are sent to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance two projects of the investment project They're not approved. Period 2016 supposed 2017: - on 19 January 2016 at the Ministry of Finance was held a meeting between a working group on the order of the Minister of Defence No OH-045 and a team of financial experts, which specified the financial parameters of the project; - in an attempt to provide opportunities for the acquisition of used F-16 aircraft (after the purchase by Romania in 2013 of those offered by Portugal), the Working Group under Order No OH-045 held a number of meetings: on 25 January 2016 in the Ministry of Defence with representatives of the US Air Force; on 1 February 2016 in the Ministry of National Defence of Portugal with representatives of the Ministry of Defence and the Air Forces of Portugal and representatives of the US Air Force; on 2 and 3 February 2016 in the US Defence Department with Deputy Secretary for Defence of the United States, responsible for the policy for Europe and NATO. As a result of the meetings, conditions are created for restarting the opportunities for acquiring aircraft from Portugal together with the US Government; - on 2 June 2016 The 43rd National Assembly accepts the Project of Investment Expenditure "Actributing a new type of combat aircraft." - on 27 June 2016 has been updated Methodology for choosing an optimal option for realization of the project; - in July 2016 it was developed a tree-shaped hierarchic structure of criteria, subcriteria and indicators for comparing alternatives. - in July 2016 an analysis and risk assessment of the options for the implementation of the Project was updated. - on 1 August 2016 were developed "Restraints, assumptions and basic data for the realization of the method for choosing the optimal option for the realization of the Project "Acquiring of a new type of fighter aircraft"; - a request for proposals was sent on 12 December 2016; - an interdepartmental working group was appointed on 10 March 2017 to sum up, analyse and evaluate the responses to the Request for a proposal; - proposals were adopted on 13 March 2017 by the RFP from Portugal/US, Italy and Sweden, and on 5 April 2017, the interdepartmental working group completed work and prepared a protocol with the results of the analysis and evaluation of the responses, as well as the ranking of the candidates with reasons and considerations; - on 26 April 2017 the Council of Ministers examined the Report of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economy, which submitted a Protocol on the results of the analysis and evaluation of the answers, as well as the ranking of the candidates with reasons and considerations. Management and organisation of the selection process of a new type of combat plane The initial organization for the implementation of the main events in the preparation, development and implementation of the investment project "Acquiring of a new model of main fighter aircraft" was created by order of the Minister of Defence No OH 704 of 12 November 2010. With this order and with the approved by the Minister of Defence in the same month "Algorithm" for the implementation of the investment project "Acquiring of a new model of main fighter aircraft" and "A road map for the implementation of the main activities related to the preparation and implementation of the project of the capital project "Actriation of a new model of main combat aircraft" for the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria "The following organization is established: - at strategic level is appointed the Steering Committee for General Management and Coordination of the Process and the activities for the preparation, development and implementation of the project with the Chairman Deputy Minister of Defence; - at operational and tactical level is appointed Integrated Project Team for the immediate preparation, development and implementation of the project with the Head of Deputy Chief of the Air Force; and - A team for the development of a mathematical model for evaluation of candidates' tenders for contractors for the realization of the Investment project, with the Director of the Department of Armed Forces, Equipment and Tylor Property. By Order of the Minister of Defence No OH-704 and the Algorithm and Road map approved by him for the implementation of the project, a real working organization is established to prepare and implement the project with clearly defined responsibilities, powers, activities and deadlines for their implementation by all structures of the Ministry of Defence, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence. With some changes imposed by the change of positions of certain officials by the management bodies, the organisation established by Order No OH-704 is maintained until the introduction of the project management in the Ministry of Defence in 2014. Although Order OH 310/27 May 2011 establishes an organisation for the implementation of all projects from the long-term investment plan of the Ministry of Defence by 2020, the organisation for the implementation of the Project for the selection of a new type of fighter aircraft established by Order No OH-704 shall be maintained. An important element of the established organization for the implementation of the project is the clear distinction between the levels of management: strategic, operational and tactical and the definition of their responsibilities and powers. With regard to the validation of the developed management documents, only the Minister of Defence or a person expressly authorised by him may do so. For example, the Integrated Project Team is tasked to develop a Methodology for choosing an optimal option and a separate Working Group to develop a Mathematical Model for assessing the options for realization of the Project. Power shall be delegated to the Chair of the Steering Committee to confirm the above mentioned documents. The Minister of Defence reserves the power to validate the mandatory basic requirements for the analysis of compliance with the possible options and the basic criteria and coefficients for the development of the Mathematical Model. Plan-graphics/Travel maps for the implementation of the main activities and for the development of the necessary documents until the implementation of the project management are developed by the Integrated Project Team and validated by the Minister of Defence. By Order No ОХ-744/14 October 2014 on the introduction of project management in the Ministry of Defence is established a portfolio management board of projects as a senior body for strategic management of the project management in the Ministry of Defence. According to the order, projects launched at that time should be reformated to the rules on project management introduced with the same. Following orders from the Minister of Defence, the organisation of the project management, management and working rules is further developed. Order No ОХ-876/16 December 2015 appoints the Project Management Board, Project Manager and Team Manager and cancels the Order ОХ-216 for Integrated Project Teams. Order No ОХ-947/9 December 2016 establishes the project management manual in the Ministry of Defence, the structures of direct subordination of the Minister of Defence and the Bulgarian Army. The interim committee finds with regret that the way in which the project management is implemented in the Ministry of Defence does not create the necessary clarity and indivisibility in terms of the responsibilities and powers of the entities involved in the process, as will be discussed in Section IX of this report. In parallel with the processes under the project management, the Minister of Defence gives a new order that is relevant to the implementation of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft. Order No OH-045/2 November 2015 establishes a Working Group for the preparation and consultation of States offering multi-purpose aeroplanes. The main purpose of the order is to complete and be sent for approval to the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly of the Investment Project for the acquisition of a new type of combat plane. The strange thing is that the order sets out tasks of the project team to update the Investment Project and at the same time cancels the order by which this project team is appointed! Order ОХ-045 repealed Order ОХ-440/26 June 2013, officially repealing the established organisation of management of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of combat aircraft, including the Steering Committee, the Integrated Project Team and a team for the development of a mathematical model for evaluation of tenders. Unfortunately, in the place of the canceled organization, no new one is created. Order ОХ-045 was repealed by Order No ОХ-027/18 April 2016, but this does not restore the previous organisation. Financial framework for the implementation of the Project As stated earlier in the report, the formal basis for launching the project is its inclusion in the long-term investment plan of the Ministry of Defence by 2020, established by Order No RD 85 5/7 April 2011 of the Minister of Defence. The initial analyses made suggest that the funds needed to implement the Project can be provided entirely within the framework of the Ministry of Defence's budget, and the acquisition package should include the purchase of the aircraft, the acquisition of the necessary logistics and armaments and the training of pilots and technical staff. The White Paper on Defence adopted by the National Assembly provides for a defence budget on an average annual basis of 1,5% of GDP. According to the Ministry of Defence Programme by 2020, for the period 2014-2020, with an estimated budget for the Ministry of Defence of 1,50% of GDP and 15% of the estimated budget for capital expenditure, capital expenditure funds were calculated at 2 091 744 million. lv. The amount of aid actually remaining to implement the new priority projects for the period until 2020 amounts to up to EUR 1787,983 million. lv. On the basis of these assumptions, the financial framework of the Project for the selection of a new type of fighter aircraft is estimated at 1.43 billion. lv. When discussing the draft budgetary framework of the Ministry of Defence for 2012, it is decided not to initiate the procedure for buying multi-purpose fighter due to lack of financial collateralisation for the calendar year. According to the Council of Ministers' Decision, No 820 of 11 October 2012, the budget of the Ministry of Defence for 2013 amounts to 1,36% of GDP. The reports of the Ministry of Defence as of October 2012 show that if, in the medium term by 2020, the defence budget reaches an average of 1.45 per cent of GDP for the period 2014-2020, the funds that the Ministry of Defence will be able to allocate to this project are within about 700 million. lv. For the start of the competition procedure and for the transition to the phase of the tender procedure, the investment project needs to be provided for the above mentioned budget for the project. In 2014, 2015 and 2014 attempts were made to provide funding with a State loan or a loan with a State guarantee for the period 2015 and 2016 respectively. In this regard, an investment project was drawn up. A new type of main combat aircraft was acquired and an integrated debt support was provided in accordance with the requirements of the Ordinance on the conditions to be met by investment projects financed by a State loan or projects applying for funding with a State guarantee and for the order for their examination. The Investment Project for Financing in 2015 provides for the implementation of the Project to take place in two stages: The first stage of the purchase of 8 or 9 aircraft, and the second stage of the purchase of 8 or 7 aircraft. The investment project is for realization of the first stage. On the basis of information received in the Ministry of Defence between 2011 and 2013 and with the replies to the request for information (RFI), the value of the first stage of 8 or 9 aircraft was estimated at 800 million. lv. As possible payment methods, an advance payment shall be discussed when signing the contract or three separate options of deferred payment. The 2016 Investment Project provides for the implementation of the Project to take place at one stage.. purchase of 16 aircraft at a indicative value of 1.84 billion. lv. Both investment projects cited above have not been approved. In 2015, the project's financial security efforts accelerated. Two projects of investment expenditure were developed in March and June. The investment cost project for March 2015 envisions the acquisition of 16 aircraft at a price of 1.84 billion. BGN and the Investment Expenditure Project from June 2015 envisions the acquisition of 16 aircraft at a price of 1.84 to 2.3 billion. lv. In July 2015, the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria gave a mandate to the Minister of Defence for consultations with countries offering multi-purpose aircraft. On 19 January 2016, the Ministry of Finance held a meeting between a working group on order, No OH-045, of the Minister of Defence and a team of financial experts, which specified the financial parameters of the project. After all, it comes to the development of the Investment Expenditure Project, which was subsequently endorsed by a decision of the Forty-third National Assembly on 2 June 2016. The confirmed Investment Expenditure Project by the National Assembly provides for the acquisition of 8 or 9 aircraft at a price of up to 1.5 billion. lv. Methodology for choosing an optimal option for realization of the project To an external independent valuer Prof. Dr. Venelin Georgiev was tasked with analyzing and comparing the methodical for choosing an optimal option for realization of the investment project "Acquiring a new type of major multifunctional aircraft" with a mathematical model for assessing the options for realization developed by the Institute of Defence of the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Defence and Air Force on the basis of the Order of the Minister of Defence, No R-249 of 1 August 2012, and refined by external independent experts in contract with the Ministry of Defence, No RD-27932, of 22 April 2013, as well as the methodical for choosing an optimal option for the realization of the project. The report by Prof. Scully. Dr. Georgiev and the results of the analysis and comparison of these methodologies were adopted by the Time Commission to study the implementation of the procedure for the selection of a new type of fighter aircraft at a meeting held on 7 September 2017 and are set out in Annex 3 to the report. Interdepartmental Working Group for Summarizing, Analyzing and Assessment of Requests for Proposals Responses (RFP) By Order No R-53 of 10 March 2017, Prime Minister Ognian Gerdjikov was appointed Interdepartmental Working Group (IBRG) to summarize, analyse and evaluate the responses to the Request for submission of a proposal (Request for proposals Under the order, the Interdepartmental Working Group, after completion of its work, should provide for the approval of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economy of its work, containing the results of the analysis and of the evaluation of the replies, as well as the classification of candidates according to the submitted tenders with detailed reasons and considerations for those decisions. Within three days of the signing of the Protocol, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Defence should submit to the Prime Minister a report with an attached protocol on the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group and proposals for follow-up. The Interdepartmental Working Group summarizes, analyses and evaluates the responses to the Request for a proposal on the project in the period 13 March 2017 and, according to the order cited above, provides for the approval of the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Economy, a protocol for its work containing the results of the analysis and of the evaluation of the answers, as well as the ranking of the candidates. At its meeting, held on 26 April 2017, the Council of Ministers considered a report approving the results of the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group to summarize, analyse and evaluate the responses to the Request for a proposal under the Project for Investment Cost. Conclusions of the Committee of the Times The improvement of the timely and effective construction of defence capabilities should be a permanent and priority task for the Ministry of Defence. The speed of changes in the strategic environment (security, economic and technological) and the time needed to develop capabilities require continuous improvements in the way the capabilities of the Armed Forces develop and provide. Modern financial constraints require that available resources be used in the most effective way. The complexity of all areas of work related to the construction of defence capabilities, as well as the interdependence between all phases and lines of development throughout the life cycle, make the process of building defense capabilities extremely complex and challenging. The implementation of comprehensive actions, coordination between different actors and processes and the ability to identify problems in a timely manner and to take corrective action where necessary is essential for success. The organization and the activities carried out on the realization of the Project for the selection of a new type of fighter plane are unique to the latest history of the Ministry of Defence. To a large extent, the organisation has been influenced by NATO's policy on the life cycle management of defence products adapted to our terms by the Rules of Acquisition, Maintenance and Depreciation of Defence Products and, above all, by the Regulations on the Management of the Lifecycle of Defence Products. The best practices of leading parties in the acquisition of complex weapons systems have also been thoroughly studied and implemented. On many issues, work teams have found the most intuitively correct solution. The experience gained in the implementation of the project should be analysed in depth and used in the development of the necessary legal basis for the implementation of future modernization projects of the Ministry of Defence. At the same time, the Temporary Commission also identified a number of shortcomings in the organisation and implementation of the selection procedure for a new type of combat aircraft, which are described in the following paragraphs. Under the Defence Building Concept (KIS) According to the Temporary Commission, many of the problems related to the implementation of the Project arise from ambiguities in the concept of defence ability building. These issues were discussed in detail at the meeting of the Temporary Commission on 27 July 2017. The concept of defense capability building (KIS) under the project "Acquiring a new type of main fighter aircraft and providing integrated support from 2012 has been developed under a financial framework of 700 million. lv. The project of investment expenditure approved by the National Assembly from 2016 amounts to 1.5 billion. lv. The change of the initially set financial framework required an update of KIOS. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and that they are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. At 1.5 billion. lv. make the so-called short list of candidates who meet military requirements and approach, albeit to a different extent, the Ministry of Defence's financial capabilities in the medium term illegitimate. Another question that is constantly asked during the implementation of the Project is for the type of aircraft This issue has also been put in a report by the Ministry of Defence concerning a draft proposal request (RFP). A definite answer to this question has not yet been given. We regret to note that although there is a warrant for the update of KIOS, it has not been carried out. On the legal basis As set out in Section III, in a large period of its implementation the project is implemented under a regulatory vacuum and a lack of clear regulation rules. The organisation originally established in the period 2010 - 2013 is in line with the provisions of the Rules of Acquisition, Maintenance and Deployment of Defence Products (PPSUOP), No P-3/28 July 2008 and the Regulations for the Management of the Life Cycle of Defence Products (PSUPP), No P-7/19 August 2011. Based on these regulations, the basic regulations for the implementation of the Project were developed. [[orders of the Minister of Defence, Directions, Schedules, Concepts, etc.]] . A regulatory vacuum is created in the implementation of the Project by the repeal of Rules P-7 on 19 July 2013. The activities carried out under the project continue to follow by momentum the organisation established by the previous period. The orders of the defence ministers preserve the spirit of the organisation originally created by only updating the name composition of the working bodies. This continued until October 2014. In October 2014, with the introduction of a project management in the Ministry of Defence, an attempt was made to establish a legal basis for the realization of modernization projects. The most significant change in terms of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of combat aircraft is that the Steering Committee as a management body of the Project at strategic level is closed and its functions are envisaged to be assumed by the Project Portfolio Management Board (P2B). In practice, the regulatory documents regarding project management do not create the necessary rules with a clear definition of responsibilities, powers, activities and deadlines for their implementation with regard to participants and bodies in the process. P2B does not work as a complete body for the management of the Project at strategic level and the vacuum in the management of the project resulting from the closure of the Steering Committee feels tangible. About the consequences regarding the management of the Project for the acquisition of a new type of fighter aircraft from the lack of a clear legal basis, we will speak in more detail in the next paragraph. On the management of the process The implementation of the project management effectively shuts down the current management through the Steering Committee (NC). With its closure, its functions as a strategic-level body to guide and control the activities of the Integrated Project Team (IPE) and the Team for the Development of the Mathematical Assessment Model (ERMMO) by providing and supporting their activities in matters beyond the powers and competences of the relevant managers, should be undertaken by the Portfolio Management Board (P2B). In practice, this is not realized. As highlighted at the meeting of the Temporary Commission on 14 September 2017 and from the documents provided to us relating to the organisation and work of P2Borda, it does not perform its functions as a strategic management body of the process, but remains at the level of a mailbox" which transfers some documents from one structure to another. Order No ОХ-876/16 December 2015 sets up the Project Management Board (ППП), Project Manager (ПП) and Team Manager (s). In the absence of a real working body for strategic direction of the process, the created ambiguities and ambiguities in regulating the obligations and responsibilities of P2Borda and the Board for Project Management and the lack of political control appear aspirations the Board for Project Management to assume the functions of Strategic Management Authority. A very clear view of the lack of political control gives the words of one of those who were heard at the meeting of the Temporary Commission on 19 July 2017: I have relied primarily on the expertise and trusted it. I have fully accepted, if you will, and trust the findings that have been reported to me as a complete process." About the attempts of the Chairman of the Board for Project Management to acquire greater powers spoke his report note to the Minister of Defence. She has No 400 10-777 of 16 December 2015. In it, describing the problems in the implementation of the project, the Chairman of the Board for Project Management wants more powers. There is also a tendency to limit the composition of the Board for Project Management and to reduce the level of its representativeness. This leads to a structure dominated by its chairman. Against this trend, the directors of "Planning and Budgeting" (PSUR), "Legal and Normal Activities" (PSD) and "Financials" of the Ministry of Defence, who, by letter to the Deputy Minister of Defence, insist on the Board for Project Management, that officials from the Board of Directors of the structure concerned be appointed or authorised to give an opinion on the implementation of the project. The letter also insists that representatives of key departments in the Ministry of Defence, such as the Department of Defense, Defense Policy and Strategic Planning, will be involved in the project management board. As a result of this letter, minor changes were made to the composition of the Board for Project Management. As set out in Section V and in section V. 2 of Section IX, following the repeal of the Rules of Procedure P-7 (POJC) and especially after the introduction of the draft governance on the issue of the powers to validate the documents developed in the implementation of the project are legal chaos. A number of documents which have so far been validated by the Minister of Defence or by a person authorised by him have begun to be validated by the President of the Board for Project Management without any explicit authorisation. The project manager himself at a P2Boord meeting on 17 June 2016 raises the question by whom is the updated Methodology and Analysis confirmed and the arrangement of the results received? A number of documents which have been validated by the Minister of Defence following their change or update shall be validated by the President of the Board for Project Management without due authorisation. Maybe this is where we show the chart. [[Shows slide.]] Colleagues, you can see in the table who develops the designated documents and who validates them at different times. For example, the 2012 selection methodology is developed by the integrated project team and is validated by the Chairman of the Steering Committee, who is authorised to approve it by order of the Minister of Defence. The 2016 selection methodology shall be developed by the Project Management Board and validated by the Chairman of the Project Management Board. The 2012 Mathematical Model is developed by the Team for the Development of the Mathematical Model Evaluation and is validated by the Chair of the Steering Committee, which has, again, an authorization by the Minister of Defence, however, the mathematical model which is being developed in 2016 and is being developed by the Board for Project Management is being validated by the Chairman of the Board for Project Management. [[Shows slide.]] As for the road maps, I ask you to remember this table, because it will be a little further when we look at the Investment Expenditure Project. A 2012 Plan Graphics or Road Map shall be developed by the Steering Committee, but shall be validated by the Defence Minister at strategic level, while the 2016 Plan Graphics or Road Card shall be developed by the Project Management Board and validated by the Chairman of the Project Management Board. [[Shows slide.]] By the way, the 2013 Plan-Graphic was developed by the integrated project team and was approved by the Minister of Defence then Angel Naydenov. The mandatory requirements and basic criteria, which have been issued by the Ministerial Order since 2012, have been developed by the Steering Committee, but have been endorsed by the Defence Minister and the criteria, subcriteria and benchmarks for comparing alternatives from 2016 are developed by the Project Management Board and are validated by the Chairman of the Project Management Board. What has been said so far is seriously questioning their legitimacy. For example, during the meeting of the Temporary Commission on 7 September 2017, one of the members of the committee raised a rhetorical question regarding the legitimacy of the Methodology: By order of the Minister of Defence, No OH-443 of 8 June 2016, the activities in the development of the mathematical model are ordered to be carried out by the same team with those in the design of the evaluation model and not by a specially appointed working group. This is the team for the development of the mathematical evaluation model (ERMMO). With this act in practice, the team is merged with the working teams and subject to the project manager and the Chairman of the Project Management Board, which contradicts the initial design when launching the project, which provides that when developing the concept, model and methodology, the team should only follow the guidelines of the Steering Committee and the Defence Minister. The way of practical implementation of the project management in the Ministry of Defence leads to a blurring of responsibilities, powers, activities and deadlines for their implementation in relation to the project to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft. The lack of clear rules calls into question the legitimacy of a number of key documents. It is also evident from the table that the contribution of the Board to managing portfolio projects to the realization of the project is insignificant and the chaos created is enormous. The project management board and its chairman shall endeavour to acquire greater powers and, in the absence of effective political control, real conditions shall be created to distort the final results in the selection of a new type of combat aircraft. We're not going to look at the table because that was enough. Moving on to the methodology for choosing an optimal option for realization of the project The conclusions of the analysis and comparison of the options of Methodology for choosing an optimal option for the realization of an investment project "Acquiring of a new type of basic multifunctional aircraft" made in the report of the external independent valuer Prof. Dr. Venelin Georgiev, are divided into two parts the conclusions related to the changes made and additions to the content and tools of the methodology and conclusions related to the conditions or logic, the environment for applying the methodology. With regard to the content and tools of the methodology, it can be summarised that each of its options develops these two components and increases the degree of adaptation of the methodology for the purposes for which it is developed. As a final product, the methodology approaches the requirements of theoretical concepts and good practices in this area by gradually obtaining the appearance of an objective tool for research needs. Proposals for the Improvement of Methodology have been made and it is recommended that attention should be focused mainly on four components: shifting based on the methodology of the approach of the approach............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the opinion of Prof. Dr. Venelin Georgiev most problems and weaknesses related to the analysis and evaluation of alternatives for the implementation of the project for acquisition of a new type of main fighter plane are related to the conditions (logics, environment) for applying the methodology, that is to say the human factor. These weaknesses, which are described in more detail at the various points of the report, can be summarised as follows: lack of logic, reasoning and systemality in making changes in the conditions for applying the methodology and limiting the expertise and sources of information used. When discussing Professor Georgiev's report at the meeting of the Temporary Commission on 7 September 2017, it was pointed out that in Methodicals, option 2 of 2016, one of the underlying criteria, namely the "payment', has been transformed into a mandatory requirement, and the arguments for this are incorrect. As long as the payment facility is a mandatory requirement for the project if one of the alternatives examined does not comply with the payment scheme set out, the same alternative will automatically be removed from the list of alternatives that will be thoroughly analysed and arranged and a choice will be made to implement the project. In practice, intentionally or not, the changes described above in the mandatory conditions and the basic criteria made in the 2016 Methodology automatically lead to the elimination of one of the alternatives (F16), which have been discussed so far. After all, as a summary conclusion of the survey conducted, it is found that following the modifications and additions made in the period 2010 - 2017. The project for the acquisition of a new type of main combat aircraft has a methodology that approaches the good examples in the field and which, with minimal additions, would play the role of an objective tool for carrying out research and obtaining results enabling them to be used in making the final decision. There are facts showing that the subjective factor introduces changes in the conditions for applying the methodology, which in most cases are not sufficiently justified and do not follow a course of continuity. In this way, the results of the study obtained by means of an objective means such as the research methodology may, to a significant extent and in a sufficiently subjective manner, be influenced with an impact on the final decision to implement the project. A report by the Defence Institute (IE) of the Ministry of Defence, submitted to a meeting of the Defence Council on 22 August 2016, concerning the examination of the request for a proposal, states in relation to the Methodology that the Model for the Evaluation of Alternatives in the RFP contains technical inaccuracies which are related to the normalization of assessments by criteria which must be eliminated. The Defence Institute points out that the model for calculating the final assessment includes three criteria at the first level: 1. Operating efficiency, weight 0.4; 2. Price efficiency, weight 0.35; 3. Expected life (calendar and flight hours) weighing 0.25. The introduction of the third criterion duplicates the residual life considerations of the aeroplane, which have already been taken into account in the second criterion through the so-called sufficient value. In this way, preferential conditions are created for new aircraft produced from a methodological point of view, similar considerations must be taken into account in a single branch of the tree of criteria. When comparing alternatives, it is established to take into account the residual value after the time for which the life cycle value is estimated. On the basis of the report of the Institute of Defence, the Defence Council shall decide on this. 2 on the agenda of the above-mentioned evaluation meeting to reject criterion 3 or to be refined. In his report to the Minister of Defence, the Air Force Commander reported on the implementation of the decision. Under the financial framework As set out in Section VI, a necessary condition for the start of the competition procedure and for the transition to the stage of the investment project is the provision of the budget needed for the implementation of the project. Depending on the number of airplanes available information on prices and forecast data on the possibilities of the Ministry of Defence budget, estimates of the necessary financial resources vary over the years from 1 billion. 430 million. lv. in 700 or 800 million. lv. up to 1 billion. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in 300 million. lv. It is logical to assume that providing such a sum from the state budget and even more than the budget of the Ministry of Defence is not an easy task. Therefore, the establishment of a budget for the implementation of the project of 1.5 billion. lv. With the decision of the National Assembly to adopt the Investment Expenditure Project on 2 June 2016, it takes more than six years. In the concept of building defence capabilities under the Project "Acquiring of a new type of main fighter aircraft" it is stated that the financial framework for the acquisition of 9 aircraft is 700 million. lv. On the basis of the replies to requests for information (RFI) 15 variants from 9 countries are subject to an analysis of compliance when drawing up the concept. It is estimated that only 3 of the presented options meet the required basic requirements for analysis and compliance of the possible options for realization of the project and are subject to actual analysis in the development of the concept of defence ability building. It is also estimated that only the option to acquire F-16 is included in the 700 million financial framework. BGN, but due to the requirements of art. 27 Rules P-7 to consider at least two options for overcoming the deficit of defence capabilities are allowed 3 options which meet the most fully established requirements. In this situation, at least two issues arise which would be subject to a more detailed analysis in the case of more time: 1. Why and how the financial framework was increased by 700 million. lv. At 1.5 billion. lv.? 2. Why hasn't the concept of defence-building been revised so that it is consistent with the new financial framework? Unfortunately, the time frame laid down by the term of office of the Temporary Commission does not allow for a more serious analysis of these issues. On the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group As set out in Section VIII, by order No P 53 of 10 March 2017, the Prime Minister is appointed an interdepartmental working group (IBRG) to summarize, analyse and evaluate the replies to the Request for a proposal under the Project for Investment Cost. Unfortunately, as has been found repeatedly with regard to the working bodies of the project for the selection of a new type of fighter aircraft, and this body is deprived of representativeness. The Interdepartmental Working Group included only one expert from an external structure. The Ministry of Economy and one representative from SANS. Important structures such as the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Finance are not represented in the Interdepartmental Working Group. From the minutes of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 26 April 2017 concerning a Report approving the results of the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group for the generalisation, analysis and evaluation of the replies to the Request for the submission of a proposal under the Project for Investment Cost The reply of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs resulting from an inquiry from the Chair of the Temporary Commission is also confirmed. In it, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs confirms that there is currently no decision of the Council of Ministers on the report approving the results of the work of the interdepartmental working group to summarize, analyse and evaluate the responses of the Request to submit a proposal on the project for investment expenditure. In creating competitive conditions for the selection of a new type of combat plane and equalisation of potential performers One of the main rules for ensuring efficiency in spending public funds is equal treatment, free competition and non-discrimination. Although the contract to acquire a new type of fighter aircraft is intended to be signed under the International Contracts Act of the Republic of Bulgaria and not under the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, according to the Temporary Commission, as it is a matter of spending significant public funds, the above rules should also apply to the implementation of the Project for the selection of a new type of fighter aircraft. The provisional Commission's finding is that the above rules were laid down in the initial organisation for the implementation of the project. To comply with these rules spoke also the Chairman of the Board for Project Management in a report note to the Minister of Defence with reg. No 400-10779/16 December 2015 However, the Temporary Commission subsequently found that, as a result of the withdrawal of the payment scheme, the update of the Assessment Methodology in 2016, the founding and the imposition of the scheme as a mandatory criterion created conditions for the unjustified removal of one of the tenders. Of the two remaining offers that continue to compete, one is virtually uncompetitive. Unfortunately, the Temporary Commission did not find reasonable grounds for this change of Methodology. The explanation given by the President of the Board during the meeting of 14 September 2017 that this was recorded as a requirement in the PIR did not pass an inspection. 5.2 of the Project Investment Cost is written down that the payment scheme is indicative. The insolvency of the decision taken to remedy one of the tenders on the basis of discrepancies with the payment scheme also speaks of the following two facts. A readiness to overcome legal and financial problems in the acquisition of defence products under the US Foreign Military Supply Program was declared by US representatives at a bilateral meeting at the Ministry of Defence on 25 January 2016 with a working group appointed by order MZ OH-045. At the meeting, the US representatives proposed dividing the project into phases in accordance with the deferred payment scheme. As a response to the supplementary questions from the Chairman of the Project Management Board, a positive response from the United States and Portugal is received to the requirement to comply with the payment scheme. It was also found that at the end of February Bulgaria was offered a new aircraft which was included in the approved financial framework for the project. At the meeting of the Temporary Commission on 14 September 2017, the Chairman of the Project Management Board confirmed this offer and expressed a positive opinion on its characteristics. His arguments explaining why the offer had not been examined were that it did not include the aircraft's armament. This explanation is perplexing given that other candidates' offers are unarmed as well. Conclusion The interim committee found that in preparation and in the course of the implementation of the project "Acquiring a new type of fighter aircraft" a huge amount of work has been done, which is in essence unique to the latest history of the Ministry of Defence. At the same time, the Temporary Commission found that the lack of political leadership and control of the process, the created regulatory vacuum, the lack of clear rules for validating the developed documents, the limitation of participation and the level of representativeness of external to the Air Force experts in the project management bodies during most of its implementation, created an opportunity for the change in mandatory conditions and the underlying criteria made in the 2016 Methodology, which automatically leads to the removal of one of the options for realization, distortion of the final result and serious doubts about the effectiveness of spending significant public funds. Based on the findings in the report and the fact that there is currently no decision of the Council of Ministers on the Report approving the results of the work of the interdepartmental working group, the Temporary Commission for the Study of the implementation of the procedure for the selection of a new type of combat plane offers the Ministry of Defence: 1. In connection with the political consensus reached from the meeting of the Advisory Council on National Security on 30 May 2017 for the accelerated implementation of the modernisation projects, the Ministry of Defence should prepare and, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, to submit for adoption by the Council of Ministers and by the National Assembly a change of the project's investment cost project project. The change should, as a minimum, include a new indicative allocation (s) of the payment, which should ensure the implementation of the three priority projects for the re-arming of the Armed Forces. At the same time, the Investment Expenditure Project should remove any ambiguities and doubts about restrictive requirements for the main implementation options relating to the payment scheme. 2. To update the main options for the implementation of the project on the basis of the tenders received after the submission of a request for a proposal in December 2016. The updated basic options for the implementation of the project should be submitted for adoption by the National Assembly together with the payment scheme. 3. Send again a request for a proposal to the States from the updated basic options after the adoption by the National Assembly of the proposals referred to in points 1 and 2. 4. Upon receipt of the responses to the request for a proposal to assess the submitted offers under the intended order and to propose to the Council of Ministers a proposal for selection. 5. To identify and review the processes and structures involved in building defence capabilities in the Ministry of Defence in order to improve their coherence and effectiveness by increasing control, coordination and management. The Annexes shall contain a list of clear documents requested by the Temporary Committee for Research and Implementation at the choice of a new type of combat plane, a list of classified documents requested by the Temporary Commission and the report of Prof. Dr. Venelin Georgiev for the implemented activities under the contract on the topic of "Analysis" and comparing the options for methodology for choosing the optimal option for realization of the investment project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-04.u271	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Honourable Members of Parliament, the discussions on the report on the study and implementation submitted by the Temporary Commission at the choice of a new type of combat plane on the facts and circumstances of the procedure and the conclusions drawn within the framework of tomorrow's plenary day, given the advanced time. The debates will then be opened. The next parliament meeting will be on 5 October at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
