ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u1	Good afternoon! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, allow me to present the National Assembly's Work Programme for the period from 15 to 17 November 2017 including discussed at the Conference of Presidents. We suggest: 1. Draft decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 9 November 2017. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Financial Supervision Commission Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017. The first vote was adopted on 2 November 2017. 3. A bill ratifying the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States on the one hand and Central America on the other. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2017. 4. Second vote on the Law on concessions. The national representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 8 June 2017. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Act on the Ministry of Interior. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 22 August 2017. Adopted in the first vote on 21 September 2017. 6. Parliamentary control which includes: - Debate on asking No 754-05-51 of 26 October 2017 from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a policy for solving the demographic problems of the country and Project for a solution. - Answer questions and questions. Please vote. Vote 177 MPs: 129 against 3, abstention 45. Our work program has been accepted. We have a proposal based on art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose to include it as a point in the forthcoming weekly Programme of the National Assembly for the period 15 November 2017. A bill amending the Social Security Code No 754-01-70, which was submitted by the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The proposal is from the MP Hasan Ademov. Are we going to represent him or vote? You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the order of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that the draft amendment and supplement of the Social Security Code with importer Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs be included in the weekly Programme. To the question why we are now making this proposal, right now is the time, because the changes between first and second reading are being discussed in the budget of state social security and possibly the changes that would have been adopted and can be found in the budget of state social security. What are we really proposing? We are proposing amendments to the Social Security Code, which will enable all pensions to be updated, I stress, to all pensions. Colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria had proposed this to happen with the insurance income for 2012. A proposal which was rejected. There were ideas on this side of the room to review all the disability pensions and with the savings resources to update all the pensions something that did not happen. I don't see how this can happen. What we propose is to change the ratio between insurance income and inflation. Currently, the so-called Golden Swiss rule is in a 50% increase in insurance income and 50% harmonised inflation growth. Because in recent years there has been a tangible increase in insurance income, we propose that there should be a change in the ratio of 75% increase in insurance income and 25% increase in inflation, as inflation has remained at lower levels over the last few years. Why are we making this offer? Because over the past 10 years, the growth in social security income has been twice something that does not reflect the amount of pensions that our pensioners receive. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Next, we are making this proposal because what is envisaged in the reform 2015 of the second government of GERB, the 1.5 per year rate will be reached somewhere in 30 years. We're taking a bolder step for this thing to happen faster and for all pensioners to get a little bigger than the one envisaged in the government project.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u3	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. [[Applause from DPS.]] We vote. They voted 178 MPs: 81, Against 14, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. We have another proposal for inclusion as a point in our weekly Programme on the same basis, it is from the MP Christian Vigenin. I propose, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group, that the Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, submitted on 22 June 2017 by Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs and is under No 754 01 29 in the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, submitted on 22 June 2017 by Christian Vigenin and is under No 754 01 29 in the Law of the National Assembly. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to justify your request.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Members of the National Assembly! I propose that this draft amendment to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act be put on the agenda for this week with the arguments that a general support for it was declared at a meeting of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism a few months ago. The examination was postponed with the argument that the government is preparing almost identical texts and once they are tabled, the two bills will be viewed together. Since then, as I noted, it has been months and we still do not see a draft of the government, and I would like to note that even more time has passed since 10 May this year, when the first meeting of this government was announced the intention of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, supported by the former privatizer number one, now Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov. I would like to quote the very transcript of the shorthand: "Boyko Borisov: In this order of thinking to introduce the Council of Ministers and the other task of the moratorium, because we will release it for public discussion." "Emil Karanikolov says: "In any case, the big process of distribution has ended, which is why we believe, and is correct, to submit a text to ban the privatisation of shares and shares of state companies, including their subsidiaries. In fact, what is the essence of our proposal, which is caused by arbitrary, I would even say criminal interpretations of the previous texts of the Law, which are related to the privatisation of undertakings in the prohibited list and rather to their separate parts, since we have such practice in previous periods? To make this entity clearer, I'll literally try to explain it in ten seconds. Imagine a candy store that has a nice cake in the window, it says: it's not for sale, but a customer comes in and says, give me some cherries from this cake. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The guy behind the counter says: the cake is forbidden to sell, but nothing says about the separate parts, understand about the cherries, so I give you the cherries.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u5	Please focus on completion, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u6	With the texts that we want to adopt, we want to explicitly say that these cakes are not sold and cherries, although the logic should be such that this should not normally be the case. I therefore ask you to support this proposal by talking about problems surrounding privatisation, let us try to stop them at least from now on as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u7	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We vote. They voted 187 representatives: 187, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is unanimous. [[Applause. People's representative Philip Popov wants the floor.]] In connection with the dot? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I suggest that the just-accepted point be the first point for the weekly programme. [[(crowd cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, cheering, ……]] , since the Bill is extremely short, but also extremely important. We have seen that our proposal was adopted by an absolute majority, so I propose that the point be point one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We vote. Vote 189 MPs: for 176, against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. There's one more request: "Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly we propose: 1. To hold a hearing of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Boyko Borisov on his statement to the media on 12 November 2017. In parliament there are still people who are involved with drug trafficking, people who have bought votes, and that is from prisoners. 2. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be included as the first item of the National Assembly's Programme for the period 15 November 2017 The second part is not in line with the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I am looking for a softer expression. And besides, there's no way he's gonna turn it on as a first point anymore. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, to justify your request for a hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, on November 12th, just a few days ago, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria allowed himself the following statement to the media and that is why we are correct and, you see, we speak calmly, we do not attack in order not to fear people. We really want the Prime Minister to come and explain what he meant by that there are still people in parliament who are involved with drug trafficking, people who have been buying votes, and from prisoners. After all, Parliament's rating is not that high, confidence is low. We want to find out from the Prime Minister and it's normal to find out if he comes here, to explain who these drug dealers are, because I can think it's Mr. Kirilov or Mr. Svilensky. After all, the Prime Minister should come and explain. After all, no one knows who these drug traffickers are, and I believe that when the opposition calls on the Prime Minister humbly, politely, because we are worried about this institution, the temple of Bulgarian democracy, namely the Bulgarian Parliament, the Prime Minister to be so kind and come here to the plenary and explain to the MPs who these people are. Because I don't believe the Prime Minister can say things without researching them without knowing. He should not be a person who will succumb to specific articles or false news and because he knows the whole truth, so we urge him and ask him to come here to the Bulgarian Parliament to share this valuable information with the Bulgarian MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. These are articles of the Penal Code. The Prime Minister should explain them somewhere else. But is there a reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We object to the unacceptable request that has just been made by the parliamentary tribune. And we read the text in art. 113, para. 1 and we believe that notoriously known, publicly known facts and circumstances should not be a reason to call the Prime Minister to a hearing! [[(Applause from GERB and OP, shouts ……]] We specify, as we did yesterday, immediately after this attack in opposition statements, that these are all facts that have been disclosed on official websites, one of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, the other on numerous sites, including on the website of the Press Centre of the Ministry of Interior. If you have any doubt about which persons, because you refer to me, you refer to other colleagues reading from these sites: Businessman Iliya Stoilov is detained during the specialization of DGBOP and the gendarmerie. It's an investigation into an organized crime group for racketeering and drugs. More than ten people have been detained. The nightclub, pawn houses and restaurants of Ilia Stoilov, brother of MP Georgi Stoilov were searched. Drugs have been found. The action is under the authority of the Special Prosecutor's Office.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u13	Next time I'll be reading a court order from there!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u14	As regards Manol Genov, who was indicted on 12 July 2017 by the prosecutor of a special unit of Anti-Corruption. Manol Genov is accused of the fact that in the period 1 March 2017 30 March 2017 in the town of Asenovgrad under the conditions of a continuing crime is five acts, in co-operation with Nikolay Hristev organized the offering and giving of property benefit a money amount of 25 BGN, for a voice of residents in the town of Asenovgrad. And I make it very brief that there are persons with voting rights in prison, and the Venice Commission insists that our prisoners also vote. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u15	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Either way, I'm putting the motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u16	In the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u17	We vote, then you'll have plenty of time. We vote on this proposal if it is accepted, then you will specify which point you want it to be, as it cannot be first anyway and you will be contradicted by yourself. Vote 193 MPs: 91 against 97, abstention 5. The proposal is not adopted, which makes the vote of the next item meaningless. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I want a re-voting procedure because, Mr. President, I was mentioned by colleague Stoinev, but this is based on the Prime Minister's statement and I want him to come here and say which one of us is dealing with drug trafficking.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u19	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The Prime Minister hasn't mentioned it to you, perhaps as a personal explanation you can explain how you are affected by Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u20	No, he said this 240 is where we deal with drug trafficking, and I want to know who's dealing drug trafficking...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u21	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky! It's a re-vote. Vote 196 MPs: 93 against 101, abstention 2. The offer is not accepted. You're welcome, Mr. Popov. Personal explanations if they want Mr. Kirilov and Mr. Svilenski.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u22	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chairman, please don't allow sentences to be given here from this tribune! Mr. Kirilov, speculating on our proposal, from this tribune just issued a verdict. Mr. Borisov does the same on TV and on different media. Please note that there is talk of drug trafficking involved here, Mr. Chairman! If they're involved, they should be arrested first, there should be evidence. Otherwise, what Mr. Kirilov said here goes to slander, dear Mr. Kirilov! You pull some from the D.A.'s website and tell them who was arrested for what. We're not talking about family ties here, we're talking about drug trafficking. Since you refer to the two colleagues you mentioned here, from this tribune, be so kind and invite you personally Mr. Borisov to finish his thought and share with us what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u23	Mr. Popov, please, in the manner of conduct! The procedure is for me, not for Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u24	This is my procedure in the manner of holding... do not allow this tribune to be governed. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u25	I will absolutely not allow justice, only that Mr. Kirilov read a message from the media. Make a difference, you're a lawyer, Mr. Popov, please! You read a press release, nothing more. Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, a statement on behalf of a group... Mr. Kirilov, you want a personal explanation? Here you go. Excuse me, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Twice there were reasons to ask for a personal explanation, because my name is concerned one time in a particular direction and on a comparative basis and the other because I was speculating. I've been speculating! My fellow Members, I have started with the fact that I will present to your attention notoriously known facts. If anyone does not know what the known facts mean, these are generally known, widely known facts and they are not proven in court because they are a kind of professionally known. But I read you because I'm not sure if 80% of Bulgarians can read or can't read. So I read them. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] They're generally available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u27	I'm sorry, Mr. Kirilov, but it's about whether they can sign, not whether they can read. Messages...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u28	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u29	A personal explanation of a personal explanation is a notoriously known fact that will not happen. [[Laughter at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u30	And how do you give the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u31	Draft and draft resolutions for the period from 8 November to 14 November 2017: On 8 November 2017, a Draft Law for ratification of the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Macedonia was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Foreign Policy, as well as to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 9 November 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, as well as to the Committee on Agriculture and Food and the Committee on Culture and Media. On 9 November 2017, a Draft Law amending the Small and Medium Enterprises Act with an importer of the Council of Ministers was adopted. The leading committee is the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. The accompanying committee is the Committee on Education and Science. On 9 November 2017, a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints was adopted. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. On the same date, a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism was adopted. Importer is the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. On 10 November 2017, a Draft Law on the European Investigation Order was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 10 November 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Weapons, Munitions, Explosives and pyrotechnic articles was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. On 10 November 2017, there was a proposal for a debate on the question No 754-05-51 of 26 October 2017 by the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Deputy Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on the policy for solving the demographic problems of the country with a draft solution. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. On 13 November 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Credit Institutions Act was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 61, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the sending of troops from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in the preparation and conduct of a military parade in Bucharest on the occasion of the national holiday of the country for the period from 24 November 2017 to 2 December 2017. The provisions of the Law on Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria have been notified to the competent state authorities. The notification was received on 13 November 2017 by the Commission. No 703-09-47 and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Statistical Institute received information about: R & D indexes in the Section of Retail Trade without the trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles in September 2017; Industrial Production Indexes in September 2017; Construction Production Indexes in September 2017; Average monthly salary and list of employees for the third quarter of 2017; Consumer Price Indexes in October 2017; Main performance of labour force monitoring in the third quarter of 2017; Gross domestic product for the third quarter of 2017; Express assessments. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mrs. Nino, you have the floor for a statement on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, MPs from GERB and the United Patriarchs! Do you understand what you are doing with the vote and the conduct of our proposal to hear from the Prime Minister?! Prime Minister of Bulgaria, whoever he is, says publicly: in the Bulgarian National Assembly there are people who deal with drug trafficking and buy votes from prisoners. And you justify this statement by reading newspapers?! What does that mean? First of all, I find it and it's not our job, but please think about it: why is this man being humiliated? Don't you have the dignity of MPs that this same man called idlers?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u33	Mrs. Ninova! In the previous session, I warned you that I would apply strictly the requirements of...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u34	Bummers called parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u35	... Rules on the organisation and activities of the National Assembly. Please choose your language!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u36	I'm quoting the prime minister who said we were bums without specifying who. Doesn't that concern you, colleagues? Secondly, do you not allow in this way to be issued sentences in advance, like the one Mr. Tsvetanov pronounced against doctors? And Bulgaria was condemned for it! And all the Bulgarian people pay for it! What's that? Total violation of the rule of law in which no one has the right to issue sentences until the Bulgarian Court of Justice has ruled. Thirdly, why do you allow the Bulgarian Prime Minister, whoever he is, if someday he is from another political party, I will address you in the same way: do not let the Bulgarian Prime Minister completely destroy the institutions in Bulgaria. In the parliamentary republic...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u37	Mrs. Ninova! I'll take your word for it and...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u38	...where parliament is the most...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u39	...on grounds of art. 162, para. 1 I'm removing you from the hearing! [[Noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, the Quaestors! Mrs. Ninova, I'm removing you on the grounds of art. 162, para. 1 of the Staff Regulations for one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u40	What have I broken?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u41	I warned you several times.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u42	What have I broken?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u43	Didn't you hear what you were saying?! [[(The President Dimitar Glauchev turns off the microphone. People's representative Cornelia Ninova continues to speak with the microphone off. Clattering on the banks from BSP for Bulgaria.]] On the basis of art. 162, para. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly... (Scandal by "BSP" for Bulgaria. "Omission! ") The President can remove you for more than one session. I will remove you for just one. [[People's representative Cornelia Nino speaks with microphone off]] But not more than three sessions, which I don't. National representative who insults the National Assembly, members of the Council of Ministers and... [[The National Representative Cornelia Nino speaks with the microphone off. Noise, banging on banks from BSP for Bulgaria. MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are approaching the stand.]] Please, Mrs. Ninova! Mrs. Ninova, please! [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova does not want to leave the stands.]] Please, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u44	Resign! You don't belong here today!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u45	Mr. Kutev! Mr. Kutev, I hereby suspend you for two sessions on the grounds of art. 162, para. One! [[Applause from GERB. Loud noise and lines from the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and they continue to stand around the stands.]] Please, the Quaestors! The Quaestors, please bring order to the court! You absolutely can't say whatever you want in a statement! Whatever you want, you can't talk! [[The National Representative Cornelia Ninova continues to stand on the stands and speaks with the microphone off.]] There is a way to request your resignation. Please, you know where the Office is. You're welcome to do it. [[Relations from the People's Representative Anton Kutev.]] Mr. Kutev! Mr. Kutev! Mrs. Ninova, leave the stands and the hall! Leave the stands and the hall! In a statement, you can't say whatever you want, not just you! There are rules for the organization and activities of the National Assembly. I'm sorry! I'm sorry! [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are standing around the stands, loud noise and lines.]] Mr. Svilensky and everyone else who doesn't sit in your seats, take your seats! Mrs. Ninova, leave the room! You are not a prisoner of the Bulgarian Socialist Party! [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria.) (Applause from GERB.)]] Dear Members of the National Assembly from BSP for Bulgaria, take your seats! Mrs. Ninova, leave the room! You're not a prisoner of the BSP. I'm specifically saying this to you, Mrs. Ninova! Get out of the room! Ten minutes of interruption until Mrs. Nino leaves the room. I'm calling an extraordinary chairman's council at the time of the interruption. (After the interruption.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u46	Honourable Members, we are continuing the meeting. According to the adopted proposal for inclusion as item 1 of the agenda, we continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE PRIVIZATION LAW AND THE ADVISION CONTROL. The bill was submitted on 22 June 2017 by the MP Christian Vigenin and a group of MPs under No 754-01-29. Please, Quaestors, ask if the importer will come to imagine the Bill? We'll wait a little longer. [[(The National Representatives of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry (BSP) are not present in the Chamber.)]] The representatives of the National Assembly are Kristian Vigenin, Dimitar Danchev, Zhelyo Boychev, Hristo Prodanov, Stanislav Vladimirov, Dragomir Stoinev and Lubomir Bonev. I ask a little patience, fellow Members, to wait for any of the importers to come to picture the bill. I have just been informed that the group of BSP for Bulgaria will not participate in the presentation of the bill. You have the floor to speak. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, which was filed under No 754-01-29 in the National Assembly. [[The MPs from the DPS parliamentary group are leaving the House.]] 99 MPs voted: 96, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Mr. Hamid wants a re-vote because he hasn't been able to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-vote, but before that, I'm asking for a name check. There's no quorum in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u48	Give me the roll call list. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - absent Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vassileva - absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov - absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - absent Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Spas Yanev Panchev - absent Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - absent Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hamid Hamid was here, so we assume he's here since he requested a roll call. Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent In addition they signed up: Alexander Sabanov, Georgi Stankov, Georgi Markov, Vesselin Mareshki, Plamen Hristov and Emil Dimitrov. We don't have the supplary of 116 MPs present. We interrupt for half an hour, then we'll double-check. Before we interrupt to greet our guests who are on the balcony students from Kostinbrod. [[Applause.]] (After the interruption.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u49	Before continuing the sitting, according to the Rules of Procedure, we shall establish the quorum again through a roll call check. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Konstantinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vassileva - absent Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - absent Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Lubenov Konstantinov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - absent Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - absent Sergey Manushov Kichikov - absent Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Spas Yanev Panchev - absent Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Tanner Mehmed Ali - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - absent Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hamid Barry Hamid - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent In addition are recorded Krastina Taskova and Miglena Alexandrova. There are 122 MPs in the Chamber. [[Applause from GERB, OP and Volya.]] Now let's reschedule the bill by first paragraph. Re-vote requested by MP Hamid Hamid Hamid. Please invite the Quaestors to come and exercise their right to vote. It's a re-vote. Vote 120 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u50	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, it is 11:00 p.m. because of BSP's behaviour we have lost more than two hours of plenary time. I propose an extension procedure for today's meeting until 4:00 to make up for the same two hours.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u51	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. I shall put the proposal to the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] For a moment there, I thought you'd come out and propose that we adopt their bill in a second vote. [[Laughter]] They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. It is unanimously accepted the proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev today to work until 16.00. Dear colleagues, our guests are representatives of the Bulgarian national minority in Ukraine who are trained in Bulgarian universities according to Decree No 103 of the Council of Ministers. [[Applause.]] Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS FOR DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. The proposals belong to Mr. Tsvetanov. I'll present the Solutions Projects. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He released Evgenia Biserova Alexieva as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. 2. He elected Teodora Radkova Georgieva as a member of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the draft decision. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The draft decision has been adopted. And another one: Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Teodora Radkova Georgieva as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. 2. He elected Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the draft decision. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The draft decision has been unanimously adopted. The next item on the agenda is: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW FOR THE COMMISSION FOR FINANCIAL SUPERVISION, No 702-01-34. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 24 October 2017 and was adopted at the first vote on 2 November 2017. A report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will be presented to you by the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u52	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure to allow Mrs. Karina Karaivanova, Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission, Mrs. Diana Yordanova and Mr. Boyko Atanasov, Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u53	We are voting on the proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. Invite the faces to the hall. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u54	Thank you. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Financial Supervision Commission Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u55	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the name of the Law presented by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The name has been adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u56	According to § 1, there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 1 and propose the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. point 1 is amended as follows: "1." the activities of regulated securities markets, investment firms, multilateral trading systems, including growth markets, organised trading systems, central securities depositories, the Investor Compensation Fund, data reporting services providers, collective investment schemes, national investment funds and management companies, alternative investment fund managers, including those managing venture capital funds, social entrepreneurship funds or long-term investment funds, natural persons directly engaged in securities and investment advice transactions, public companies and other securities issuers, credit rating agencies, central counterparties, benchmark administrators, under the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, the Law on the Implementation of Measures against Market Abuses with Financial Instruments, the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act, the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the Financial Instruments Act on the Recovery and Restructuring of Credit Institutions and Investment Intermedia and the Act on the Activities of Collective Investment Schemes and other collective investment undertakings, Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories (OJ L 27/1 July 2012).), hereinafter referred to as the "Regulation', Regulation (EC) No No 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies, hereinafter referred to as the "ESMA Regulation', Regulation (EU) No 2016/1011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 8 June 2016 on indices used as benchmarks for financial instruments and financial contracts or for measuring the performance of investment funds and amending Directives 2008/48/EC and 2014/16/EU and Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (OJ L 171/1 of 29 June 2016).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) Butane', Regulation (EU) No 345/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European venture capital funds (OJ L 115/1 of 25 April 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013', Regulation (EU) No 346/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 April 2013 on European Social Entrepreneurship Funds (OJ L 115/18 of 25 April 2013.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 346/2013" and Regulation (EU) 2015/760 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2015 on European long-term investment funds (OJ L 123/98, 19 May 2015.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2. A new t. is created. 4. "4." the activities of other persons having obligations under the laws of the Member States. One and two. 3. A t is created. 5. It's five o'clock. the activities of the persons referred to in paragraph 1. 1-4, as well as non-financial counterparties, those with net short positions in financial instruments, those who are parties to securities financing transactions and other persons with regard to the fulfilment of the requirements of Regulation 1060/2009, Regulation 648/2012, Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps, hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 575/2013, Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 July 2014 on the improvement of securities settlement in the European Union and on central securities depositories of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 May 2014 on markets in financial instruments and amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012, hereinafter referred to as the Regulation (EU) No 600/2014.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u57	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote § 1, supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 1 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u58	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova for a new § 2. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes to create a new § 2 with the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The members of the committee can be only Bulgarian citizens with higher education with a minimum degree of education and qualification in the field of economics, finance, law, mathematics, informatics and other appropriate for the supervision and regulation of the non-bank financial sector, which have a good reputation, knowledge, skills and professional experience and have a work and/or service experience in the specialty not less than 5 years in the past 10 years. 2. A new para is being created. 2: For the members of the committee, work and/or service in the speciality of para. 1 shall be acquired: 1. in state institutions or other public bodies; 2. in the regulatory body of the banking and/or non-banking financial sector; 3. in a bank and/or in a non-banking financial sector entity; 4. in a position with management functions in financial management and/or control in non-financial corporations. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 3. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words "International Organizations" is added "or European Supervisory Authorities". 5. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6 and amended as follows: Madam President, there's been a technical error here. Please record that t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The circumstances of para. 3, p. 2-7 and para. 4 shall be declared by the members of the committee before the President of the National Assembly when taking office.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u59	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. We'll vote on the editorial amendment first. Are there any speeches? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Stoyanova just now in this created § 2 which is supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The amendment has been accepted as proposed. I shall put to the vote the new § 2 supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The new § 2 is supported by the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u60	Commission proposal for a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. The following amendments 1. in t. 3 words.............................................................................. 4, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of 2. in t. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u61	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote proposals by the Commission and supported a new § 3. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. Thus, the new § 3 was adopted under the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u62	According to § 2.. an offer of MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Lalo Kirilov and Rumen Gechev. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission's support for the proposal has been missed in the report. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 4, and shall propose the following version: ............................................ Article 7 is amended as follows: Art. 7. (1) The remuneration of the President and the other members of the Commission shall be determined under internal wage rules adopted by the Commission, and the remuneration shall not be lower than the average remuneration of the members of the managing bodies in investment firms, management companies, insurers, insurers and pensioners, determined on the basis of the last accounting year and shall not exceed the level of remuneration of the manager and governors of the Bulgarian National Bank. (2) The President and the other members of the Committee shall have all the rights of employment other than those which are incompatible or contrary to their legal situation. (3) The President and the other members of the committee shall receive additional remuneration for the results achieved, determined in order and manner laid down in the internal rules of the salary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u63	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 2, which shall become § 4. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 4 with the new numbering of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u64	Proposal of the National Representative Rumen Gechev for a new § 2a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5 with the following wording: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 at the end of the sentence is first added as the agenda of the meeting is confirmed by the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u65	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the newly created § 5, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The new § 5 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u66	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 3 which becomes § 6. Commission proposal for a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 12 1 the following 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the words "Regulation (EC) No 1060/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 September 2009 on credit rating agencies', hereinafter referred to as "the EFTA Regulation', are replaced by "the EFTA Surveillance Authority'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the words "Regulation (EU) No 236/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 March 2012 on short selling and certain aspects of credit default swaps', hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 7 the words "Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 July 2012 on OTC derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories', hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 648/2012', are replaced by the "Regulation'. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 the words "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms' and amending Regulation (EU) No 716/2009, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013' are replaced by "Regulation (EU) No 575/2013'. 5. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The text shall be deleted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 345/2013'. 6. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The text shall be deleted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 346/2013'. 7. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The text shall be deleted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 8. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 13 the text is deleted after the words "Regulation (EU) 2018/60'. 9. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: The text shall be deleted after the words "Regulation (EU) No 596/2014'.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u67	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 3, which shall become § 6, and § 7, supported by the committee. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. With this § 3, which becomes § 6 and § 7 of the Commission Report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u68	Paragraph 4 is an importer. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal from the MP Rumen Gechev. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 8, with the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. on a proposal from the respective Vice-President, issue or refuse to issue and withdraw the securities offered in the Public Offering Act, the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act, the Financial Markets Act, the Act on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other undertakings for collective investment, the Insurance Code and the Social Security Code; (b) A new item shall be created. 7. "7." in the case of proposals of the respective Vice-President, register or delete persons from the register under art. 30, para. 1 in the envisaged cases in the Public Offering of Securities Act, the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act, the Financial Instruments Markets Act, the Act on the Activities of collective investment schemes and other collective investment undertakings, the Insurance Code and the Social Security Code; (c) the previous points 7-15 become respectively points 8-16; (d) the so-called t. 16 is going to be t. 17 and in it, after the word "licenses', the authorising officer shall be added; (e) the current t. 17 becomes t. 18; (f) New points 19-21 shall be created: "19." on a proposal from the alternate vice-president for: (a) the establishment of inadmissible or nullity of entries in the trade register, as well as the non-existence of a recorded circumstance; (b) declaring nullity of transactions relating to the activities of the persons controlled by it or concluded in breach of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities, the Code of Social Security and its implementing acts; (c) revocation of a decision of the General Assembly of a public company where the decision is contrary to the provisions of the Law on the public offering of securities or of the company's statutes; the action shall be brought against the company before the district court at its seat within 14 days of receipt of the minutes of the meeting of the General Assembly; (d) a declaration of nullity of agreements under art. 37, para. 6 of the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment undertakings; 20. On a proposal from the alternate vice-president shall examine and rule on the complaints under art. Art. 33, § 3, Art. Art. 49, § 4, Art. Art. 52, § 2 and art. 53, § 3 of Regulation (EU) No 909/2014 within 30 days of their entry into order laid down by the Rules of Procedure of the Commission; 21. on the proposals of the portfolio vice-president shall apply the compulsory administrative measures provided for in the Law on Public Offering of Securities, the Law on Companies for Special Investment Purpose, the Act on Markets in Financial Instruments, the Act on the Activity of Collective Investment Schemes and other undertakings for collective investment, the Law on the Implementation of Measures against Market Abuse of Financial Instruments, the Insurance Code and the Social Security Code, which are in the explicit competence of the Commission; (g) Previous points 18-26 become respectively points 22-30. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. In para. A third sentence shall be created: In the event of an appeal, Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. 166 of the Administrative Procedure Code is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u69	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the Commission's support § 4, which becomes § 8. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 8 of the new numbering and of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u70	Madam President, I'm very sorry, but I'm sorry. The Social Security Code and its implementing acts should be dropped, as this is on my proposal, which I withdrew but remained in the version. The Social Security Code to be dropped out of this article. 19 (b).
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u71	..and the implementing acts shall remain. We are voting just now for Mrs. Stoyanova's amendment. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. That's how the editorial amendment was adopted. I will put to the vote § 4, which becomes § 8, with the so-made editorial amendment. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 8 of the Committee Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u72	There is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev for a new § 4a. The motion has been withdrawn. There is a proposal of the MP Rumen Gechev in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for a New The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to create a new § 9 with the following wording: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14, para. 3, p. 4 at the beginning is added:.. by proposal of a member of the committee and/or the Secretary-General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall be § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be § 11. According to § 7 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 12 with the following wording: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 the words "points 5-7, 10 and 11' are replaced by "points 5-7, 11, 12 and 21'; (b) points 2-5 are repealed; (c) points 7-9 are repealed; (d) c. 12 at the end is added which are not provided in the explicit competence of the committee. (e) point 14 is repealed; (f) point 15 is amended as follows: ..15. organise the preparation of all notifications and other documentation to supervised entities, institutions and other persons in relation to the insurance supervision; (g) point 16 is amended as follows: ..16. inform the prosecution of the detection of criminal data in relation to additional social security and assist the prosecution at its request in the investigation of such offences. 2. Alinea 2 is canceled. 3. In para. A sentence 2 shall be created: In the event of an appeal, Article 3 of the Rules of Procedure shall apply. 166 of the Administrative Procedure Code is not applicable.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u73	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the new § 9; § 5, which shall become § 10; § 6, which shall become § 11; § 7, which shall become § 12, which shall also be supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. With this, we adopted a new § 9 and paragraphs 10, 11 and 12 with a new numbering on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u74	Paragraph 8 is an importer. There is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Lalo Kirilov and Rumen Gechev: "Paragraph 8 to fall." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u75	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Mr. Turnovalyski and a group of MPs. Vote 82 MPs: 2 against 75, abstention 5. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 8, which shall become § 13. They voted 83 MPs: For 83, against and abstention there is no. With this § 8, which becomes § 13 of the Commission Report, has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u76	Paragraph 9 is an importer. There is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 14 by the following wording: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 20 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 2 - 4 are amended as follows: The activities of the administration shall be carried out by persons working in the employment sector. The employment relations of the Commission staff shall be governed by the provisions of the Labour Code. (3) An official of the Commission may not be a person who: 1. is convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; 2. would be in a hierarchic relationship of guidance and control with a husband or wife, with a person with whom he is in actual cohabitation, with a straight line relative without restrictions, on a board line to the fourth degree including or in matchmaking to the fourth degree including; 3. is a sole trader, unlimited liability partner in a trading company, manager, sales agent, sales representative, prosecutor, trading intermediary, liquidator or trade union, member of a management body or control body of a trading company or cooperative; 4. is a Member of the National Assembly; 5. hold a leadership or control position at national level in a political party; 6. exercise control over the supervised entity or hold directly or through related parties over 5 per cent of the voting rights of the general meeting or of the capital of the supervised entity; 7. be a member of the management or control bodies of the supervised entity or is authorised to manage or represent the supervised entity without being a member of its management or control bodies; 8. working on employment or civil relations for the supervised entity. (4) In the conclusion of the contract of employment, the staff of the commission shall be obliged to declare their property to the chairman of the commission. 2. They're creating an al. 5 and 6: Every year until 30 April the Commission's staff shall declare to the Chair of the Commission their property status as well as the income received from the previous calendar year from contracts for additional work under art. 111 of the Labour Code, income from non-employment benefits, as well as the employer/entity who paid them and the grounds for their receipt. The property shall be the subject of declaration, order of declaration, storage and access to the information contained in the declarations shall be determined by the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the Commission. (6) The staff who hold a senior position should have a higher education with a minimum degree of education in the field of economics, finance, law, mathematics, informatics and other appropriate, with a view to the supervision and regulation of the non-bank financial sector speciality and work and/or service in the speciality of not less than 3 years.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u77	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 9, which shall become § 14. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 14 of the new numbering of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u78	According to § 10 of the importer there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 15 by the following wording: ...... 15.................................................... Article 21 is amended as follows: "Rights" Art. 21. (1) The basic monthly remuneration of the Commission's staff shall be determined by the Chair in accordance with the internal wage rules and within the limits of the resources available to the budget for the year concerned. (2) The staff of the Commission may receive additional remuneration for the results determined in order and in a manner established by the internal rules on salary. (3) The additional remuneration under para. 2 may not be based on the funds collected from fines and property penalties by supervised entities entered in the public registers under art. 30. (4) The members and administration of the committee shall be insured with accident insurance at the expense of its budget. (5) Where a post in the administration of the commission is occupied by an employee with a higher legal education, the acquired service or service experience shall be recognised as an internship in the specialty of law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 16. Madam President, the name of art is also missed here. 25a, i.e. Office secret.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u79	Before § 12?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u80	Before art. 25a must have a title.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u81	Are there any speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 10, which shall become § 15 with the so proposed name and rights supported by the Commission, § 11, which shall become § 16 with the title of the Office's secret. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. By this, paragraphs 15 and 16 of the Commission Report and the proposed titles have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u82	Under § 12, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 17. Under § 13, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u83	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission, respectively, § 12, which shall become § 17 and § 13, which shall become § 18. Please, voting mode. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. Paragraphs 17 and 18 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u84	Paragraph 14 is an importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 19 and shall propose the following version: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 in the text before t. 1 after the word "incomes" is added "funds". 2. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The Commission's budget cannot provide for the financing of expenditure and the provision of transfers at the expense of revenue under para. 3, p. 4. (5) In the case of overrun of income under para. 3, p. 1, 2 and 5 as well as in the case of outstanding amounts of expenditure and transfers for the financial year concerned, additional expenditure and payments may be approved for transfers under the budget of the Commission for the following year under the terms and conditions of the Public Finance Act. Madam President, I will make two editorial proposals. In the final version of § 14, which becomes § 19, namely: in the first paragraph of the words In para. 4 after the words. 3, p. A comma shall be placed and added which shall be reported as a contribution to the central budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the editorial amendments that have just been made in § 14, which shall become § 19, which the Commission shall support. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. Editorial amendments have been adopted. And now I put to the vote § 14, which becomes § 19, which is supported by the Commission together with the editorial amendments. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 19 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u86	Under § 15 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 20 with the following wording: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. in t. The three Vice-Presidents of the Committee shall be replaced by the three Vice-Presidents of the Commission and the member of the Committee on Art. 3, p. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. create t. 10: ..10. "Manufacturer' within the meaning of art. 20, para. 6 is a position to be held by the directors of Directorates and the heads of departments in the specialized administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u87	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the Commission's support § 15, which becomes § 20. Please, voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 20 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u88	Paragraph 16 is an importer. Proposal of the MPs Georgi Tarnovalyski, Lalo Kirilov and Rumen Gechev in the Annex to art. 27, para. 1, Section II, t. 1 row 34 is amended as follows: The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 21 and shall propose in Section I, point VI, point (b). 17 before the word "confession" to be added to each stage of the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u89	Statements? I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Georgi Turnovalyski, Lalo Kirilov and Rumen Gechev. Please, voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: 18, against 53, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. We are voting in favour of the Commission § 16, which becomes § 21. Please, voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. Paragraph 21 of the Commission Report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u90	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 17 to 24, which shall become paragraphs 22 to 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u91	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the name of the division and paragraphs 17, which becomes 22; § 18, which becomes 23; § 19, which becomes § 24; § 20, which becomes § 25; § 21, which becomes § 26; § 22, which becomes § 27; § 23, which becomes § 28, and § 24, which becomes § 29. Please, voting mode. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. We therefore adopted the name of the division and paragraphs 22 to 29 of the Commission Report, as they are under the new numbering.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u92	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 25 which becomes § 30 and propose that points 45 and 81 be amended as follows: 45. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 215 the following amendments shall be made: (a) in para. 2 words within a period of not less than three months shall be replaced by a period of not more than three months. (b) in para. The term "Deputy Vice-President" shall be replaced by the "Commission" and the word "the Vice-President" shall be replaced by "the Committee" and the word "the Vice-President" shall be replaced by "the Vice-President." "81." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) all over the word "Deputy Vice-President" shall be replaced by the "Commission"; (b) in the fourth sentence, the words "c'. 27, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 27, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and Paragraphs 26 and 27 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 26 and 27, which shall become paragraphs 31 and 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u93	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote § 25, which becomes § 30; § 26, which becomes § 31; and § 27, which becomes § 32, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. By this, paragraphs 30, 31 and 32 of the Commission Report have been adopted and thus the Second Reading Bill. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: LAW FOR THE RATICING OF THE ASSOCIATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE EUROPEAN UNION AND HIS MEMBER STATES, OF THE ONE COUNTRY, AND CENTRAL AMERICA, OF THE OTHER COUNTRY. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Then there's a report from the Foreign Policy Committee. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u94	Mr. Kostadin Kojabashev, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Foreign Affairs, will be allowed to vote on a procedure for admission to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u95	Please vote on the admission procedure. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall. Mrs. Vassileva, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u96	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, No 702-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 November 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, No 702-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2017. The draft was presented by Mr. Georg Georgiev, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs. The meeting was also attended by Chavdar Zhechev, Director of the Department of America at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This bill aims at strengthening and strengthening the links between the European Union and Central America, the strategic association of the two regions in priority areas such as social cohesion, regional cooperation policies, reducing the level of poverty, inequality, social exclusion and any form of discrimination. It is based on the principles of democracy, fundamental human rights, the promotion of sustainable development, good governance and the rule of law. Its conclusion provides new opportunities for dialogue in areas such as the fight against drug trafficking, organised crime, money laundering and corruption. The Agreement also establishes a Free Trade Area. In the course of its implementation, the Agreement will fully exempt exporters of EU industrial and fishery products for Central America from the payment of duties. This meets the criteria of art. 24 of the GATT and trade in the elimination of customs duties and other restrictive trade provisions practically for all trade between the Parties to the Agreement. Part IV of the Agreement applies provisionally to the European Union, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama from 1 August 2013, to El Salvador and Costa Rica from 1 October 2013, to Guatemala from 1 December 2013. Last but not least, it should be noted that the document is currently ratified by 22 Member States of the European Union and by the six Central American countries. In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds Mr. Christian Vigenin, noting the withdrawal in the last years of the Republic of Bulgaria from the Central American region, asked what the potential benefits of such an agreement would be and why Bulgaria's ratification had been so delayed. Mr. Georgiev replied that trade will be most seriously benefited by this Agreement and the potential benefits are significant. He also explained that the reasons for delaying the ratification of the Agreement are of a technical nature and noted that there are other EU member states that have not yet completed ratification procedures. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposes: with 6 votes in favour of the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, No 702-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u97	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. A report from the Committee on Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u98	Dear Madam President, honourable Members: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, No 702-02-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2017. At a regular meeting held on 1 November 2017, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Georg Georgiev "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs" as follows: The Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, is the first European Union Interregional Agreement and the first comprehensive Association Agreement between the two regions, which will contribute to speeding up regional integration. The Agreement was drawn up in Honduras on 29 June 2012. It shall enter into force on the first day of the month following that in which each Party has notified the other of the completion of the procedures under domestic law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Each Party shall notify the relevant depositary in writing of its intention to denounce the Agreement. Denunciation shall take effect six months after its notification to the relevant depositary. Its conclusion provides new opportunities for dialogue in areas such as the fight against drug trafficking, organised crime, money laundering, terrorism and corruption. The Agreement establishes a Free Trade Area. In the course of its implementation, the Agreement will fully exempt exporters of EU industrial and fishery products for Central America from the payment of duties. It shall meet the criteria of art. 24 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade and Art. 5 of the General Agreement on Trade in Services. The Parties to the Agreement shall confirm the existing rights and obligations they have in relation to each other under the WTO Agreement. Part IV of the Agreement applies provisionally to the European Union, Honduras, Nicaragua and Panama from 1 August 2013, to El Salvador and Costa Rica from 1 October 2013, and to Guatemala from 1 December 2013. The document has been ratified by 22 countries of the European Union and by the six Central American countries. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 14 votes in favour, without the votes against and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to accept at first reading the draft Law on ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I don't see any speeches. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, I'll read you the project: Project for the Law on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part. A single member. Ratifying the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, in Tegucigalpa, of 29 June 2012 Please, voting mode. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u100	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Draft Law on ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 20 October 2017, to be voted on at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u101	I'm putting the procedure to the vote. Vote 82 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, for the second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u102	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part A single member. Ratifying the Association Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Central America, of the other part, drawn up in Tegucigalpa on 29 June 2012
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u103	Statements? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the so-read bill for adoption at second reading. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. Ratification was accepted at second reading. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u104	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I would like to make a procedure on the first item of today's agenda on the Law amending the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Since there was no presentation of the reasons for the bill in the Chamber, BSP Members were absent, please put to the vote an extension of the period between first and second readings by another seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u105	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. I put to the vote the proposal made to increase the period between first and second readings on the proposed bill. Vote 88 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CONCESSIONS. Importers: Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 30 May 2017. Adopted at first vote on 8 June 2017. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u106	Let's call the opposition and let them know we're watching it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u107	The Quaestors, please invite our colleagues from the BSP to come to the Chamber if they wish. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u108	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before we proceed to the Report on the Second Voting of the Law on concessions, I ask for a procedure of admission with regard to the Director of the Directorate of Social Activities and.............................. at the Council of Ministers Mrs. Marieta Germanska, and Mrs. Mariana Slavkova State Expert in the same Directorate of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u109	Please vote. Colleagues, it is reported to the group of BSP that the second reading of the Law on concessions begins. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u110	Thank you, Madam President. "The service for the concessionaires'. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - Basics. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One. "Department I "The Object and Purpose ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law, the name of Chapter One and the name of Section I of the Commission Report, which are supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The proposal for the name of the Law, Chapter 1 and Section I on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u112	Under art. 1 of the importer has a proposal of the MP Rumen Georgiev: The proposed text of art. 1, para. 1 to drop and to adopt the definitions and regulations given in Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts and to obtain the following version: Art. 1. (1) This law lays down the rules relating to the award procedures, contracting authorities and contracting entities, concessions and the implementation of works concessions or service concessions. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 para. 2 out, para. 1 becomes the content of art. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u113	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Georgiev. They voted 86 MPs: for 4, against 54, abstention 28. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 83 MPs: 11 against 60, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 1 supported by the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. Article 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u115	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put the Commission's support to the vote. Art. 2 and Art. 2 3. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. Articles 2 and 3 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u116	"Department II" "Principles". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 4 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 para. 1 a new comma shall be placed after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u117	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 93 MPs: for 6, against 73, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Section II and Article 2. 4 which the Commission supports. 90 MPs voted: 88, against 1, abstention 1. The name of Section II and art. 4 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u118	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5. "Department III................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III. Under art. 6 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 t. 3 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first of all, the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 96 MPs: 9 against 76, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I'm putting it to the vote, colleagues, Art. 5 supported by the Commission, the name of Section III, which is supported by the Commission and art. 6, which is also supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. Article 5, the name of Section III and art. 6 have been adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u120	Article 7 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev: The proposed text of art. 7, para. 1 drop and adopt the definition in Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts. The text to get the following version: Art. 7. (1) "Concession for construction' means a contract of requiem in writing by which one or more contracting authorities or contracting entities award the execution of works to one or more economic operators, and the remuneration for that shall consist only of the right of operation of the works covered by the contract or of that right combined with remuneration. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u121	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the proposal not supported by the Commission by the Parliamentary Representative Rumen Georgiev. They voted 93 MPs: 8 against 62, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. 7 which is supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. Article 7 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u122	Article 8 "Instruction text'. Proposal from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev: The proposed text of art. 8, para. 1 drop and adopt the definition in Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts. The text to get the following version: Art. 8. (1) "Communication" means a contract of reclaim concluded in writing by which one or more contracting authorities or contracting entities award the provision and management of services other than the execution of works under art. 7 to one or more economic operators, the remuneration for this shall consist only of the right to use the services covered by the contract or of that right combined with remuneration. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Daniel Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The concession for services shall be a public-private partnership whereby a public authority entrusts to an economic operator the provision and management of one or more services other than construction, against which it grants the economic operator the right to receive revenue from the operation of those services when taking the operational risk referred to as "service exploitation'. (2) A concession for services shall be awarded for services intended for use by the public, including by the public authority, as well as for the activities referred to in Annex No 2. (3) A concession for services may award social or other specific services under Annex No 3. Where part of the services are social or other specific services under Annex 3 and their value is greater than the value of the other services, the rules on social or other specific services under this law shall apply. (4) A concession for services may be awarded works under art. 7, para. 2, p. 3. (5) A concession for services may be awarded the supply of goods by an economic operator to a public authority, the value of which is less than the value of the services. Where the value of the delivery is greater than the value of the services, the Public Procurement Act shall apply.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u123	Statements? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MP Rumen Georgiev. Vote 88 MPs: 11 against 57 abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the Commission's support art. 8. 90 MPs voted: 88, none, abstention 2. Article 8 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u124	Proposal from the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov: A new article is being created. 8a with the following content: Art. 8a. (1) The subject matter of the contracts with which concessions under art. Article 7 8, is the award of works or services, such as the remuneration of the contract consists of the right to operate the works or services, or of that right combined with payment. (2) The benefits of the construction or services under para. 1 are always obtained from the situation and are in the interest of the society. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u125	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create art. 8a by MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov, which the Commission does not support. They voted 93 MPs: 23, against 29, abstentioned 41. The proposal to create a new art. 8a is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u126	Article 9 "Instruction text'. Proposal by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "9" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u127	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. Vote 95 MPs: 10, against 71, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on art. Article 9 10, supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against 3, no abstentions. Articles 9 and 10 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u128	Article 11 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. (1) Construction concession and concession for services whose value is greater than or equal to the left-hand equivalent of the threshold laid down by a regulation of the European Commission adopted on the basis of art. 9 of Directive 2014/23/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2014 on the award of concession contracts (OJ L 94/1 of 28 March 2014).), hereinafter referred to as "Directive 2014/23/EU', are concessions of cross-border interest. (2) Construction concession and concession for services whose value is below the threshold under para. 1 as well as any concession for use are concessions without cross-border interest. (3) Current information on changes in the size of the threshold under para. 1, hereinafter referred to as the "European threshold', is maintained on the website of the National Concession Register. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u129	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote Articles 11, 12, 13 and 14, supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 3. The proposals were adopted from 11 to 14 including the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u130	Section IV "Securities of the concession" The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. Article 15 supplier text and proposal from the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 para. 4 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u131	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote first the proposal not supported by the Commission by the Parliamentary Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 89 MPs: 8 against 74, abstain 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of the section and art. 15, supported by the Commission. Vote 86 MPs: for 85, against none, abstain 1. The name of the Section and art. 15 have been adopted on the Commission report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u132	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16. "Department V........................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. Article 17 "Contributor text and proposal from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17, para. 2, and everywhere in the text of the Draft Law on concessions as a concession of state concessions to define the state and not the individual minister in accordance with its functional competence, this text to be replaced by the Council of Ministers" as it is in the current Law on concessions. The decisions to grant a concession should be adopted by the Council of Ministers and the preparatory actions, the implementation of procedures, the conclusion of contracts and the control of implementation to remain of the powers of the ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments shall be made: 1. para. 2 is amended as follows: The Council of Ministers is the President of the Council of Ministers. 2. para. 3 is amended as follows: The municipality council is a concession for municipal concessions. 3. para. Five o'clock is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u133	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the MP Rumen Georgiev. The Commission does not support the proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 5 against 73 abstentions 9. The offer is not accepted. I also put to the vote the second unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs that the Commission does not support. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please keep your voice down in the hall, please! Vote 88 MPs: for 6, against 73, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 16, the name of Section V and art. 17 supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 1. With this article. 16, the name of the Section and art. 17 have been adopted under the Commission report. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u134	Thank you. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22, as in para. 2 the word "supposed' is replaced by "supposed' and the words "municipals' or "municipals' are replaced by "municipals' and/or "municipals'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23. "Department VI.................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u135	So far, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put the Commission's support to the vote. 18, 19, 20, 22, 23, the name of Section VI and art. 24. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. With this, Articles 18 to 23 including the Commission Report, the name of Section VI and Art. 24 on the Commission report have been adopted. Mr. Kirilov, I suggest we interrupt for half an hour. I'm calling a half-hour break!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u136	Thank you. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u137	You have the floor, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under art. 25 supposed by the MP Rumen Georgiev. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 25: Art. 25. (1) The concession for underground riches shall be granted and fulfilled under the terms and conditions of the Law on Underground Treasures. (2) The concession for mineral water extraction shall be granted and fulfilled under the terms and conditions of the Water Act. (3) The sea beach concessions, which are without cross-border interest, shall be provided under the terms and conditions of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act. Under art. 26 supposed by National Representative Georgi Svilenski. The Commission does not support the proposal: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 26 after the word "strengthening', a comma shall be placed and added to the "general economic interest' services provided through the network of a public undertaking by virtue of another legal or regulatory act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26. "Department VII.. Financial and economic elements of the concession............................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. Under art. 27 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27, as in para. 1 the words "s'/or "s' are replaced by "s' or "s'. Under art. 28 supposed by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 28, as in para. 1, t. 1 the words "s'/or "s' are replaced by "s' and "s'. 3 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. Under art. 29 The Commission shall support the text of the importer. Under art. 30.. text of the importer. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 30: Art. 30. (1) In the case of a concession for works and for a concession for services, an economic balance of the concession shall be maintained which constitutes a balance between the benefits of the concessionaire and the concession for the risks assumed by them. (2) The economic balance of the concession defined by the contract shall be maintained throughout the duration of the concession. Under art. 31 "A proposal from the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: in art. Paragraph 31. Seven out. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Hristian Mitev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 31: Art. 31. (1) The operating risk of the concession for construction and the concession for services shall always be borne by the concession holder and shall be considered as a poet where, under normal conditions of operation with the concession contract, the recovery of the investments made and the costs of operation of the construction or services is not guaranteed. (2) The operational risk assumed by the concessionaire derives from factors beyond the control of the parties to the concession contract and presents a risk of exposure to market fluctuations on demand and/or the supply of the concession site and/or services. The risks associated with maladministration with non-compliance with contractual obligations by the economic operator and with force majeure shall not be considered to be operational risk. (3) A demand risk shall be the probability of occurrence of events, facts or circumstances which may adversely affect the market demand of the concession site, the services provided or the other business activities carried out. (4) The marketing risk shall be the probability that the concession, the services offered or the other business activities carried out do not comply with the requirements of the market. The risk associated with the supply includes the risk of availability of the services provided. The risk of availability is the probability of occurrence of an event, fact or circumstance which may affect the provision of the service in kind, volume, quality and performance time corresponding to the concession contract. (5) In the case of a concession for construction together with the operational risk, the concessionaire shall also assume the construction risk. The construction risk is the probability of occurrence of events, facts or circumstances which may affect the value or the time for execution of the works entrusted. (6) All other risks for a concession for works and a concession for services shall be distributed between the concessionaire and the concession contract depending on the possibilities of each of the parties to better assess, control and manage the relevant risk. Risks that countries can relatively equally assess, control and manage shall be allocated to them as shared risks. (7) In the case of concession for use, all risks shall be borne by the concession holder, except for the risk of the full loss of the concession site.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u139	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House! I am making a proposal regarding the Order of Art. 25, para. 3 relating to the granting of concessions for the sea beach, under the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast. I believe that, regardless of whether this Concession on the Sea Beach is of cross-border or without cross-border interest, the general regime of the Law on concessions should be respected, rather than going to the regime of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act, as the regime of the Law on concessions ensures greater publicity, greater transparency and greater legality of procedures so as to drop any doubt as to the concessionaire who applies, that is to say, the potential concession applicant for the receipt of such concession, may use situations which are less favourable in the Law, rather loopholes in the Law on Construction of the Black Sea Coast, and to take the concession on a much lighter order. Moreover, it became clear at the Commission's meeting that, unfortunately, much of the documents on these concessions were provided at the last minute, exactly a few hours before the Special Committee meeting when the procedure was opened. I believe that, in order to put an end to these unlawful practices, it should be applied as a more appropriate and more lawful law on concessions in the granting of concessions on sea beaches, whether they are of cross-border or without cross-border interest. In this regard, I shall propose a separate vote on art. 25. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u141	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev, for the dropping of para. 3 in art. 25 of the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 102 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 25 as remaining, i.e. paragraphs 1 and 2. Please vote. Voted 103 MPs: 100, none, abstention 3. Article 25 of the Commission report has been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Svilenski, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 4, against 84, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 26 by the name of the importer of Section VII and Articles 27 to 30, including the Commission Report. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. Article 26, the name of Section VII and Articles 27 to 30 have been adopted. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 97 MPs: for no, against 74, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 31 on the Commission report. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. Article 31 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u142	Under art. 32 there is a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 32: Art. 32. (1) The revenues of the concessionaire from the operation of the construction or of the services shall be made up of payments from consumers, consumers and the concession or only from the concession. (2) Payment by the concession may be provided in the following cases: 1. where direct payments from consumers or other persons are not due to the services provided by the concessionaire, or if such payments are due, the concession holder is not intended to receive them; 2. where the purpose is to achieve a socially acceptable price of the services provided by the concessionaire; 3. at State regulated prices of the services provided by the concessionaire. (3) In the case of concession for construction, the payment by the concession shall be due after the establishment of the concession in service and shall be carried out only for the time at which the establishment or the services provided were available. (4) In the case of a concession for services, payment by the concession shall be made only for the time when the services were available. (5) The conditions under which the payment by the concession is made shall not exempt the concessionaire from the risks which he has assumed for the entire duration of the concession. Under art. 33 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 33 para. 3 is The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 33: Art. 33. (1) In certain cases, the concessionaire shall pay the concession fee to the concession holder. (2) In the case of a concession for use, as well as a concession for services, where the concession is state or municipal property, concession remuneration is always due. (3) In the case of concession for construction, concession remuneration shall be due where the site of the concession includes an existing construction which is state or municipal property. (4) The amount of the obligation to pay a concession fee shall be determined by the concession in each particular case, depending on: 1. the fair distribution of the economic and financial benefits of the concession between the concession and the concessionaire; 2. the achievement of a socially acceptable price of the services provided with the object of the concession.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u143	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: for 6, against 71, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 32 and 33 on the Commission report. Voted 103 MPs: 101, against 1, abstention 1. Articles 32 and 33 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u144	Under art. 34 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 34, para. 3 A sentence 2 is created: The decision of the National Assembly is adopted when more than two thirds of all Members of the National Assembly have voted for it. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 34: Art. 34. (1) Each concession shall be awarded for a specified period which may not be longer than 35 years for a concession for works and for a concession for services and more than 25 years for a concession for use, unless a special law provides for another period. The duration of the concession may be extended by extending the total duration of all extensions, irrespective of the basis for it, no longer than one third of the specific period fixed by the concession contract. (2) The notice for the opening of the procedure for the determination of a concession, hereinafter referred to as the notice for the opening of the procedure, shall specify the period of the concession which shall be maximum. The notice of initiation shall also specify the estimated total duration of all eligible extensions where provided for by a review clause. (3) The specific period of concession for construction and of concession for services may not be longer than the time necessary for the concessionaire to recover the investments made and the costs of operation of the construction or services and for obtaining income from the capital invested, taking into account the estimated economic balance and the price of the services to be provided. The specific period of concession for use shall comply with the type and technical and/or technological and/or resource characteristics of the concession and accessories site and with the time needed by the concession holder to implement the investment programme to maintain the site in the would-be capability. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u145	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I take the floor of speech, and I would like to briefly make a retrospective of the importer's proposal at first reading. This is what we're talking about. With the proposal that we accepted at first reading, there is a problem that may arise, namely the so-called "eternal concession." Therefore, we have submitted two alternative proposals between first and second readings, one of which is.. although it is a matter of strategic importance, on which the National Assembly should adopt a longer period, with our proposal we set a deadline that cannot be longer than 50 years. As an alternative to this proposal, we have proposed, if there remains the option which was at first reading the National Assembly to vote on the extension of the deadline, our alternative proposal was to have a qualified majority. The Commission has generally accepted our proposal to have an upper limit and imposed one that is not 50 but 35 years, which is even better, but at the same time an exception is made for such cases where a longer period is set in a special law. However, special laws cannot set a limit, i.e. an upper limit. We believe that, in the same way as in the original proposal and now the Commission's proposal, the so-called "eternal concession" is available. The aim of our proposals was to avoid this particular "eternal concession." Both options are acceptable to us. One was rejected by the Commission. Therefore, as an end to my speech, I would like to make a proposal to vote on individual proposals separately. I hope that we will be able to come to some debate in which I can convince you of our arguments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u147	Do you mean the text of the Commission, by sub-paragraphs? Because all the proposals, apart from yours, which is not supported, are supported and have entered the Commission text. [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Hristov outside the microphones.]] Then give some proposal on the Commission's text. I am, anyway, the first proposal that is not supported, which I will now put to the vote, but if you have any editorial proposal on the text of the Commission, do it, otherwise you can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u148	My proposal is to drop the sentence on the text of the Commission, which is "unless a special law provides for another deadline." The Commission's proposal, which is for 35 years, simply this exception, if another deadline is provided for under a special law, to be abolished. That's my specific proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u149	The explanation shall be provided for, unless a special law provides for another period of time. Is that what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u150	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u151	That's it, isn't it? Okay. - What's the line? Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am taking the floor for speech because we are currently discussing one of the most controversial provisions in this bill, and this debate started in the last Parliament, continued at first reading in this Parliament, in the working group, until the final adoption of the version that we are discussing now, adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs at second reading. In these discussions, we have significantly, I would say, substantially, changed the original concept of the Law on concessions. To some extent, in fact, to a large extent, we gave up one of the most serious merits of the Law on concessions adopted in the last Parliament, including proposed now as a text by importers in this Bill. This was the rule that the time of concession is always linked to the price of the concession and depends on the return, these indicators being the subject of the competition between potential candidates for the concession and the conclusion of a concession contract. We have sought to respect all requests, applications, to overcome all concerns that have been presented by our opponents, including our partners. We also argued internally on this matter. After all, and after a very long debate, we have adopted a decision to limit the duration of the concession by a deadline, i.e. by one limit. The regime, as established, is absolutely symmetric of the current Law on concessions. In this regime we have also complied with the requirements of the Directive. Yes, unfortunately, by moving from limitless to limit to time limit, the other two institutions, which were also useful, positive proposals, mainly refer to the consent of the National Assembly for the so-called over-the-counter debt claims. At present, there is no need for such agreement from the National Assembly. In this sense, we have not only respected the requests of our colleagues from BSP, but I believe that in both the maximum part and in their logical consistency we have also partly adopted the proposals of our colleagues from the Parliamentary Group of Volja. I would like to clarify the following with regard to the expression.. unless by a special law another deadline is provided for, which editorial proposal made by my colleague Hristov. Colleagues, here comes a speech to cover those hypotheses, those cases where the so-called super expensive receivables arise, i.e. the subject of a concession will require a longer period of return in view of the huge volume of potential investments. We assume that these are the largest infrastructure facilities if they are decided to be carried out by concession. I stress here that right here is the guarantee that has been transferred from the original proposal to the actual one. We have said that this can only happen explicitly if the legislator in another law expressly takes such a decision. Colleagues, you are convinced that if a concession is made for a billion, two or three, this is indeed the way in which the National Assembly could sanction this period in a specific law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u153	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Kirilov! From the very beginning, when we tabled, as I said, two alternative proposals, we read the fact that there may be so-called We ourselves have read the fact that it is possible that it will be even more than 50 years as we have imported. That is why it was our alternative proposal to vote on a longer concession from the National Assembly, but with a qualified majority. In this way, I think it will be ensured that this strategic concession would be supported by both the government and the opposition, which would give absolute certainty that the interest of the Bulgarian people is protected. This was our idea to propose the alternative that was rejected by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u156	Thank you for Mr. Christov's line. It is tempting to accept your proposal for the 50-year term. Our concern is that perhaps this will again lead to another accusation that the concessions are too long. So we bet on this more flexible regime, which is still a form of legislative control. For example, if it is a highway or a road infrastructure site, the legislative solution should be in the Roads Act, and it is obvious that this issue will be discussed specifically in this Parliament, no matter which hall. This will be a matter of parliamentary debate. If a super-large hydrotechnical facility is to be built, this would require an amendment to the Water Act or to the Water Services, which would also be subject to legislative control. Our message with this norm is such.. if there is something extraordinary, it must go through a special law. I'll remind you of your history. Bulgaria has set off the first concession, which has been established, is established by law. The concession law for the Thrace highway. At that time, three Italian companies were designated by a law for the company: "Salini", "Italstrada" and "Jarola". It was a concession law. Very well that the legislator has created a principled arrangement and has not remained under such single laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 11 against 36, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote an editorial proposal made by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Plamen Hristov: in art. 34, para. 1 the first sentence of the statement unless a special law provides for another period of time to be withdrawn. They voted 101 MPs: for 9, against 49, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 34 and 35 on the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 6, abstention 3. Articles 34 and 35 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u158	strategic development and planning of concessions. Monitoring, management and control. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36. Under art. 37 has a proposal from the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov: The current text of art. 37 becomes para. 1 a is created para. 2 containing the following content: The Council of Ministers shall submit a reasoned proposal to the National Assembly under art. 34, para. 4. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u159	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 97 MPs: 14 against 23, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two, as well as Articles 36 and 37 of the Commission Report. Vote 95 MPs: 94 against 1, no abstentions. The name of Chapter 2 and Articles 36 and 37 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u160	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38. In accordance with Article 39, the text of an importer. Proposal from the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39, para. 1 is created a new t. 5 as follows: It's five o'clock. draw up and submit to the Council of Ministers motivated proposals for works concessions and concessions for services for 35 years and longer. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 2: (a) c. 5 words are out of the question. (b) c. 6 after the word 2. in para. 3 after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Maria Ilieva under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 39: Art. 39. (1) Ministers shall implement the state policy for concessions in accordance with their sectoral competence by fulfilling the powers of concession, as well as: 1. in accordance with their sectoral policy, they shall make proposals to the Coordination Council on the National Strategy, as well as for the inclusion, exclusion and change of projects in the action plan for state concessions; 2. carry out monitoring and control of the concession contracts they have concluded; 3. draw up and submit for approval to the Council of Ministers annual reports on the implementation of the projects included in the action plan for State concessions of their competence and of the concession contracts they have concluded; 4. make proposals to the Coordination Council for the adoption of guidelines on addressing issues within the scope of their competence related to the award of concessions and the implementation or termination of concession contracts. (2) The Minister of Finance shall implement the state policy on the effective and efficient spending of public funds in the planning and implementation of concessions, such as: 1. provide written instructions on the financial and economic elements of the concession in the course of the preparatory activities and in the execution of concession contracts; 2. make proposals to the Coordination Council for the adoption of guidelines on the financial and economic elements of concessions; 3. approves an annual plan-account for financing the public concessions; 4. carry out a preliminary assessment of compliance with the fiscal rules and restrictions under the Public Finance Act of the public concessions projects with payments from the concessionaires prior to their inclusion in the action plan for state concessions, under conditions and by order defined by the ordinance under art. 35; 5. deliver an opinion on the financial and economic elements of the public and municipal concessions projects with payments from the concessionaires prior to the initiation of the relevant concession award procedure; 6. may send an observer to attend the meetings of the committees to conduct the procedure for determining the concessionaire without the right to vote. (3) The parties shall be obliged to grant to the Minister of Finance, in relation to his powers under para. 2, the information required by it relating to the preparation and implementation of procedures for the designation of concessionaires and the implementation of concession contracts. (4) The Minister of Finance may be assisted for the activities under para. 2, p. 4 and 5 of the Bulgarian Development Bank.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u161	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov, the proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 16 against 23 and abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote a proposal by the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, the proposal is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 5 against 61 and abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 38 and 39 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, there is no abstention 1. Articles 38 and 39 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u162	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 40. Article 41 supposed text of the importer. Proposal from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 41, p. 5 in the introductory phrase before the word "Concessions". 1. in para. 2: (a) c. 5 words are out of the question. (b) c. 6 after the word 2. in para. 3 after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 44. Article 45 supposed text of an importer. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 45: Art. 45. (1) The national strategy for the development of concessions contains the general and specific objectives and the main priorities for the award of concessions in the country. (2) The action plan for state concessions, respectively the action plan for municipal concessions, shall be drawn up for each programming period and shall contain the forecast: 1. works and services to be awarded through concessions, as well as the sites to be provided for use by concession; 2. maximum periods of concessions, including time limits for the execution of the works entrusted; 3. public funds for payments from the concession in size and sources of funding, including from the European Structural and Investment Funds; 4. concession fees. (3) Joint concessions with state and municipal participation shall be included in the action plan for state concessions and in the action plan for municipal concessions. (4) The contents of the plans under para. 2 shall be determined by year and may be amended and supplemented on an ongoing basis. (5) No procedure for the designation of concessionaire which is not included in the action plan for State concessions can be opened, respectively, in the Action Plan for municipal concessions. (6) The order for drawing up the plans under para. 2 shall be defined in the ordinance referred to in Article 2. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u163	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 5 against 64 and abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 40 to 45, including the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 85, against 1 and abstention 1. Articles 40 to 45, including the Commission Report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u164	Article 46 supposed text of an importer. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs in art. 46, para. 2 t. Three out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 46. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u165	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 1 against 67 and abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote Articles 46 to 48, including the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. Articles 46 to 48, including the Commission report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u166	? Chapter 3????????.????????????????????????????????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I" General. Types of procedures. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u167	We vote on the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Three, the name of Section I and Articles 49 to 54, including the Commission Report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter Three, Section I and Articles 49 to 54 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u168	"Department II" Preparatory actions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 55. Article 56 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 56: Art. 56. (1) The proposal of the economic operator for the award of a concession shall contain a description of the object and object of the concession, justification and financial and economic analysis. (2) Where the concession includes the award of works, to the proposal under para. 1 an investment proposal shall be applied, which shall contain a pre-investment study or assignment for the development of an investment project, a running or other phase of an investment project, specifying also the estimated technical and functional characteristics and technical and economic performance of the construction. (3) The concession shall examine the proposal under para. 1 and, if deemed appropriate, take action to include the project in the relevant action plan. (4) The investment proposal may be used by the concession in the preparation of technical and functional requirements. (5) Where the concession holder has used the investment proposal in whole or in part, the economic operator submitted it, if not elected as concessionaire, shall be entitled to remuneration. The amount of remuneration shall be determined by the concession according to the methodology defined by the ordinance under art. 35, and shall be paid within one year of publication in the National concession register of the notice of initiation. (6) The proposal under para. 1 shall not give rise to any other rights or privileges for the economic operator other than the law under para. 5. Article 57 "Instruction text of an importer'. Proposal by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 57 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. The first sentence shall be replaced by the first sentence. 2. in para. 5 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: When the municipal council does not give permission under art. 34, para. 5 for proposals from the concession period, the concession may identify the possibilities for reducing it by: The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 57: Art. 57. (1) The concession shall ensure that preparatory actions are carried out in order to determine possible solutions to the needs to be met, to justify the award of a concession and to determine the appropriate procedure. The preparatory action shall collect, summarize and analyse available information and documents. The preparatory action shall be carried out by a team of experts designated by the order. (2) According to the subject-matter and complexity of the concession, technical, financial, legal and other analyses may be prepared for preparatory actions. (3) In the case of a concession to be awarded, the technical analysis may be replaced by an investment proposal containing a pre-investment study, an assignment for the development of an investment project, a project or another phase of the investment project. (4) Where the concession is intended to be paid by the concession, a financial and economic analysis must be drawn up to demonstrate the applicable financial and economic elements of the concession. In such cases, the financial and economic analysis shall be sent for an opinion to the Minister of Finance. The minimum requirements for the financial and economic analysis and its order of coordination shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u169	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 2 against 59, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Section II, which shall be supported by the Commission, as well as Articles 55 to 57 inclusive, on the Report of the same. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The name of Section II and Articles 55 to 57 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u170	Article 58 "Instruction text of an importer'. Proposal by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 58 The justification of concessions shall be sent to the Ministry of Finance. The Minister of Finance prepares for each concession a financial analysis of its impact in the short, medium and long term on the state budget and the economy of the country. In the event of an adverse impact of the concession on the country's economy or budget, the Minister of Finance shall draw up recommendations for their removal which are mandatory for the concession. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 58.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u171	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in para. 3 of art. 58 is written that the justification of the concession is sent by the concession of the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Culture and the State Agency of National Security, which should return an opinion within 14 days of receipt of the justification. We propose, as has been read, to create a new ) (a.k.a. 5, and the justification for the concessions to be sent to the Ministry of Finance, and we believe it is extremely important that the Minister of Finance prepare for each concession a financial analysis of its impact in the short, medium and long term on the state budget and the economy of the country. Under the current Law, I would like to point out that the concession for state concessions is the Council of Ministers. In this regard, each office has a view of the object offered on concession. A moment ago, we accepted a change that a concession would be every single office or ministry according to its competence. In this regard, we insist and ask you to vote for this new paragraph 5 because this will further develop the model for management and coordination of concessions between industries and provide full and comprehensive information on their impact on the economy and the country's budget, which we believe is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u173	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u174	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With colleagues from the Parliamentary Group, we discussed this proposal of theirs, including we discussed it in the Committee on Legal Affairs or Working Group here it is already difficult for me to be precise and specific. However, I would like to remind you of this: we believe that we have adopted the proposal of 39, para. 2, where the powers of the Minister of Finance are scheduled. I will just go back to the specific text we are discussing. 58. In fact, it is a classic text for all of our current concession laws. This is the coordination with the three departments because of the specific problems of security, defence and health. We have always had this coordination regime in all laws because it has been assumed that there must be justification and commitment specifically from these three offices. These three opinions have always been on duty and mandatory in the concession regime. Please take into account art. 39, para. 2: The Minister of Finance implements the state policy on the effective spending of public funds; gives written instructions on the financial and economic elements; makes proposals to the Coordination Council for the adoption of guidelines, approves an annual plan-account to finance the expenditures of the public concessionaires and thus a total of six more obligations. Including here, we specifically added a new para. 4: The Minister of Finance may be assisted by the activities under para. 2, p. 4 and 5 from the Bulgarian Development Bank. These are the analyses he's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, we have fully taken into account art. 39. The Minister of Finance has rights, can and fulfils all of his legal powers that we give him, but there is nothing very important that we offer in the new ) (a.k.a. 5: In the event of an adverse impact of the concession on the economy or the country's budget, the Minister of Finance shall prepare recommendations for their removal which are mandatory for the concession. It is very important for us to take the opinion and the mandatory opinion of the Ministry of Finance in each concession contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u177	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, a very brief statement, just to clarify that the Minister of Finance, in addition to fulfilling the state policy on the effectiveness and efficient spending of public funds in this regard. 5, takes an opinion on the financial and economic elements of the projects as well as on the projects expressing an opinion on state and municipal concessions with payments from the concessionaires prior to the opening of the relevant concession award procedure. We believe that, in any case, the Minister of Finance gives binding instructions which cannot be met by the contracting authority. In our view, this request by colleagues from "Volja" has been accepted and reflected, albeit in a different systematic place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 10, against 16, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 58 on the Commission report. They voted 83 MPs: 79, against 1, abstention 3. Article 58 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u180	Section III - Conditions for the award of a concession. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section III. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 59. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 60. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 61. Article 62 supposed text of an importer. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 62: Art. 62. (1) The concession shall define as conditions for participation and one or more requirements for the professional or technical capacities of economic operators and/or their financial and economic situation. (2) The requirements of para. 1 must: 1. take into account the subject-matter and characteristics of the concession; 2. provide real competition. (3) The requirements of para. 1 cannot be defined as conditions for the participation of subcontractors. (4) The requirements of para. 1, the minimum levels for their implementation and the documents demonstrating them shall be described in the concession documents and shall be indicated in the notice of initiation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 63. Article 64 "Instruction text'. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 64: Art. 64 (1) The concession shall also lay down the requirements under which a licence or registration may be granted for the performance of a service or business included in the subject-matter of the concession, irrespective of the type of concession. (2) The conditions under para. 1 shall apply only to a sub-contractor who will perform the relevant service or business activity. Under art. 65 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 65 para. 3 is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 65.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u181	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 82 MPs: 8 against 54, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the name of Section III to the vote, as well as Articles 59 to 65 inclusive, on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 76 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 3. The name of Section III and Articles 59 to 65 including, on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u182	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 66, 67 and 68. Under art. 69 supposed by the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 69: Art. 69. (1) The amount of the concession payments, where such payments are envisaged, shall always be defined as a award criterion. (2) As award criteria may be defined: 1. requirements relating to the subject matter of the concession, such as: (a) quality of construction and/or management and maintenance of the site of the concession; (b) quality of the services provided; c) lowest cost of construction; (d) the lowest price of the services provided; (e) technical advantages including technical equipment and a material and technical base; (f) functional characteristics and/or characteristics of construction and/or services; (g) period of completion of construction; (h) period of service provision at a minimum level of quality defined by the concession; 2. measures above the regulatoryly defined environmental protection, where necessary; 3. social criteria; 4. energy efficiency; 5. criteria relating to innovation; 6. amount of concession remuneration, where provided; 7. a specific period of concession and/or a general period of eligible extensions provided for by a review clause; 8. others, depending on the characteristics of the concession. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 70.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u183	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote Members 66 to 70 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 85 MPs: 81, none, abstention 4. Articles 66 to 70 including, on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u184	Section IV - Decision and notice for the opening of the procedure for the determination of the concessionaire. Documentation of the concession. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section IV. Under art. 71 supposed by the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 71 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 2 as follows: Where the maximum concession term for a concession for works or concession for services is 35 years or longer, the procedure for determining the concession holder shall be opened after a decision of the National Assembly under art. 34, para. 4 authorising the award of the concession for the so-defined period. 2. The current para. 2 and para. Art. 3 of art. Paragraph 71 shall become respectively. 3 and para. 4............................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 71.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u185	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MPs Margarita Nikolova and Nikolay Alexandrov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 76 MPs: 10, against 18, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the name of Section IV and art. 71 on the Commission report. Please vote. Vote 77 MPs, for 75, against no, abstention 2. The name of Section IV and art. 71 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u186	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Articles 72, 73, 74 and 75. Under art. 76 The text of the importer and a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 76, as in para. 2 after the word "the party', the call for the opening of the procedure is added. Under art. 77 "A proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 77: Art. 77. (1) The notice of initiation and the documentation of the concession may be amended in the cases referred to in art. 79, para. Art. 4, Art. 81, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 94, para. 1. (2) The amendments shall be made by a notice of amendment, which shall be published under the terms and conditions of art. 76, para. 1 and 3. (3) Where the amendments affect the subject-matter of the concession and the conditions for the award of the concession under art. 59, the concession terminates the procedure. Under art. A proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 78: Art. 78. (1) The documentation of the concession shall contain, depending on the subject-matter of the concession and the type of procedure for determining the concessionaire: 1. a description of the object and object of the concession; 2. documents certifying ownership and/or individualising the site of the concession, where applicable; 3. a description of the works and/or services included in the subject-matter of the concession, including for each position, where applicable; 4. a detailed description of the terms of the concession; 5. the minimum requirements for tenders; 6. the minimum requirements to be met by the variants of tenders and their presentation, where applicable; 7. the conditions for participation; 8. the award criteria, as well as the methodology for assessing tenders; 9. a description of the organisation of the procedure and a planned deadline for its completion; 10. documents certifying the absence of exclusion before signing the concession contract; 11. examples of an application, offer (proposal and a commitment proposal) supposed in open procedure and in a competitive procedure with negotiation, as well as of a preliminary offer in a competitive procedure with negotiation and in a competitive dialogue; 12. draft concession contract; 13. review clauses, where applicable; 14. date and time for receipt of applications or tenders and date and time for opening of tenders in open procedure; 15. other requirements, depending on the subject matter of the concession. (2) Where the concession is intended to be paid by the concession, the financial and economic analysis under art. 57, para. 4. In the case of a concession for construction to the concession documents, the investment proposal under art. 57, para. 3.. when it is prepared. (3) In the event of a competitive dialogue, the requirements of para. 1, t. 3 " 5 " t. 8 on the methodology for assessing tenders, etc. 12 shall not apply. In this case, the concession includes in the concession documentation a description of the needs to be met with the award of the concession and, where possible, lays down basic technical, functional and qualitative characteristics of the works and/or services included in the subject-matter of the concession. (4) In the case of competition with negotiation and competitive dialogue in the concession documents shall be determined and: 1. the number of candidates who will receive an invitation to submit a preliminary tender in a competitive procedure with negotiation, respectively, who will receive an invitation to participate in the dialogue in a competitive dialogue; 2. objective and non-discriminatory selection criteria; 3. the way the selection criteria are applied. (5) For concessions with classified information, the concession documents shall specify the requirements for the protection of classified information which shall be applied in the conduct of the concession award procedure and in the performance of the concession contract. (6) Upon publication of the concession documents in the National Concession Register, the information protected by law shall be deleted, as well as commercial or other information which, for reasons of exceptional security or technical reasons, or for a sensitive nature, requires a specific level of protection, hereinafter referred to as "sensitive information', indicating the basis for this. In such cases: 1. the existence of information protected by law or sensitive information shall be indicated in the notice of initiation; 2. the published documentation shall specify the conditions and arrangements by which economic operators may have access to the deleted information. Under art. The Commission supports the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u187	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote Members 72 to 79 including, on the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. Articles 72 to 79 including, on the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u188	"Section V - Commission for the conduct of the procedure for the determination of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 80. Under art. 81 spare text of importer. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 81: Art. 81. (1) The Commission shall: 1. adopt rules for his work; 2. prepare and provide to the official designated by the concession holder the requested clarifications and additional information for publication on the batch of the procedure in the National Concession Register; 3. propose to the concession the removal of unlawfulness in the notice of initiation and/or in the documentation of the concession; 4. perform the actions of admission of candidates or participants; 5. perform the selection in the competitive procedure with negotiation and in the competitive dialogue; 6. conduct the dialogue in the competitive dialogue procedure; 7. conduct the negotiation in the competitive procedure with negotiation; 8. propose to the concession holder to extend the time limit for receipt of applications, preliminary tenders or tenders where no application has been received within the time limit set for receipt, respectively; 9. examine, allow and evaluate the tenders and make a ranking to the participants by proposing that the first-rank participant be designated as concessionaire; 10. draw up a draft decision on the designation of the concession holder or a draft decision on the termination of the procedure for the designation of the concession holder, hereinafter referred to as the call for termination of the procedure. 11. perform other actions defined by this law. (2) In the cases under para. 1, t. 3 The concession holder by decision approves a notice of amendment and the corresponding amendments to the concession documents, where any, by setting a new deadline for receipt of applications or tenders under the conditions of art. 79, para. 5. (3) The decisions of the committee shall be reasoned. The Commission's actions and decisions adopted with the reasons for them shall be reflected in a protocol. Where a member of the committee opposes a decision, he shall sign the minutes with particular opinion and apply his reasons to it. (4) The notification provided for by this law to applicants or participants shall be made by the Commission by electronic means, including e-mail. Under art. The Commission supports the importer's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u189	We vote on the name of Section V, Articles 80 to 82, including the Commission Report. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The name of Section V and Articles 80, 81 and 82 of the Commission Report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u190	"Department VI "Search of information in the course of the procedure for the designation of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 83. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 84.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u191	We vote on the name of Section VI and Articles 83 and 84 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section VI and Articles 83 and 84 are adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u192	"Section VII - Applications and offers". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 85. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 86, as in para. 1, t. 5 after the word "Participant', the words "participant' shall be added, including the words "participant', and shall be added where applicable. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 87. Under art. 88 has a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 88: Art. 88. (1) The offer shall consist of a proposal and a binding proposal. (2) The proposal shall contain: 1. concrete proposals under the award criteria; 2. motivation of the proposals under point 2. 1; 3. a financial and economic model involving an analysis of the cash flows of the concession and a specific duration of the concession which cannot be longer than the maximum period specified in the notice of initiation; 4. evidence of the feasibility of the proposals made under the award criteria; 5. the names and professional qualifications of persons who will be responsible for the performance of the concession contract where this is defined as a requirement for concessions of cross-border interest, other than concessions for social and other specific services; 6. other proposals, developments and information in compliance with the requirements laid down by the concession documents; 7. proposal for the establishment of a project company, where applicable; 8. declaring the period of validity of the tender; 9. declaring the origin of the funds under the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. (3) The binding proposal shall contain a summary of the specific proposals under the award criteria. (4) Where the notice of initiation does not limit the possibility of submitting options to the tender, the participant shall submit a proposal and a binding proposal for each proposed option. (5) In case of discrepancies between the proposal and the binding proposal, the evaluation of the tender shall be carried out on the binding proposal. (6) The proposal may specify the confidentiality of certain information. Proposals under the award criteria cannot be defined as confidential information. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 89. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 90. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 91. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 92. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 93. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 94. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 95.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u193	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Section VII and Articles 85 to 95, including the Commission Report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section VII and Articles 85 to 95, including the Commission Report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u194	The Commission's request for an open procedure shall be made in accordance with the procedure set out in Section VIII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VIII. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 96. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 97. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 98: Art. 98. (1) Where by notification of irregularness under art. 97, para. 1 until the deadline for opening tenders in the concession documents remains less than 8 working days, the Commission shall set a new time limit for opening the tenders. The Commission shall extend the time limit for the opening of tenders and, where it considers that it is necessary to carry out a verification of the circumstances declared in the applications. (2) The Commission shall inform all participants of the extension of the time limit for the opening of tenders. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 99. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 100. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 101: Art. 101. (1) The opening of proposals, the examination and evaluation of tenders and the ranking of participants shall take place in one or more closed meetings of the committee. (2) When examining and assessing the tenders, the Commission shall verify the conformity of: 1. the proposal and the binding proposal with the requirements of art. 88 and with the requirements laid down in the concession documents, and 2. proposals under the award criteria and the financial and economic model with the award criteria. (3) When examining the tenders, the Commission may verify the circumstances and correctness or authenticity of attached documents, including by reference to competent authorities or other persons. (4) If necessary, the committee shall require participants within a specified period, which may not be less than three working days, to: 1. provide clarification on the submitted developments and information or on the documents applied in the tender, or 2. provide further evidence of the circumstances requested in the tender, or 3. remove technical irregularities in the proposal under art. 88, para. 2. (5) Explanations may not change the proposals contained in the binding proposal under art. 88, para. 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 102. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 103. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 104: Art. 104. (1) After the ranking of the participants, the committee shall draw up a protocol for the opening and reading of binding proposals, for the examination and evaluation of tenders and for the ranking of participants. (2) On the basis of the Protocol under para. 1 The Commission shall draw up a draft decision to designate the first-rank participant for the concessionaire or draft decision to terminate the procedure. (3) The Commission shall draw up a draft decision to terminate the procedure where no tender has been submitted or no participant has been admitted, and where for all tenders submitted there is a circumstance under art. 102, ) (a.k.a. 1 - 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u195	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of Section VIII and Articles 96 to 104, including the Commission Report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section VIII and Articles 96 to 104, including the Commission Report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u196	Section IX............................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IX. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 105. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 106. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 107. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 108. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 109. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 110. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 111.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u197	We vote on the name of Section IX and Articles 105 to 111, including the Commission Report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section IX and Articles 105 to 111, including the Commission Report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u198	Section X.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section X. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 112. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 113. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 114. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 115: Art. 115. (1) Where the Commission considers that the possible solutions to the needs have been clarified, it shall draw up a draft decision to supplement the concession documents. The completed documentation for the concession shall include: 1. a description of the object and object of the concession in accordance with the results of the dialogue held; 2. the requirements of art. 78, para. 1, t. 3-5, t. 8 on the methodology for assessing tenders, etc. 12; 3. model offer (proposal and binding offer). (2) The concession shall issue a decision to supplement the concession documents and shall notify the applicants of the decision. The decision shall be subject to appeal within 10 days of notification under Chapter Six. (3) After supplementing the concession documents, the Commission shall draw up an invitation to submit tenders, which shall contain a time limit for receipt of tenders and a date and time for opening the tenders received. (4) The invitation to submit tenders and the completed documentation shall be sent by the Commission to all applicants admitted. (5) After sending the invitation procedure a competitive dialogue shall continue under the conditions and under the order of art. 101 104.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u199	We vote on the name of Section X and Articles 112 to 115, including the Commission Report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section X and Articles 112 to 115, including the Commission Report, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u200	"Section XI............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section XI. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 116. Under art. 117 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 117: Art. 117. (1) The concession shall issue a reasoned decision to terminate the procedure where: 1. no application, preliminary tender or tender has been submitted or no candidate or participant has been admitted; 2. the content of any tender does not meet the requirements laid down by the concession documents; 3. the need to carry out the procedure as a result of circumstances which are not foreseen when the decision to initiate the procedure is adopted; 4. There shall be established infringements in the opening and conduct of the procedure which cannot be resolved without changing the conditions for the award of the concession under art. 59; 5. the concessionee appointed and the second-placed participant consistently refuse to conclude the concession contract; 6. subject to the condition for improving the proposals under the award criteria by the second-ranking participant, no agreement on the improvement shall be reached. (2) The concession shall issue a decision to terminate the procedure and where the estimated value of the concession at the opening of the procedure was below the European threshold and the procedure was carried out in accordance with the requirements of a concession without cross-border interest, but with the financial and economic model proposed with the offer of the first-placed participant, the value increased by more than 20 percent and passed the European threshold. The concession terminates the procedure and when the price of a basic service included in the subject-matter of the concession has increased by more than 20 per cent of the estimated value of that service indicated in the concession notice. (3) The decision to terminate the procedure shall be issued after approval by the Council of Ministers, respectively by the municipal council. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 118. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 119: Art. 119. (1) The concession shall inform by electronic means by electronic means, including e-mail, interested candidates and participants of the decision to designate the concessionaire, respectively, of the decision to terminate the procedure. (2) The minutes of the committee shall be attached to the notification to open the proposals, examine and evaluate the tenders and ranking of the participants. (3) The decision to designate the concession holder shall enter into force when all the previous decisions in the procedure for determining the concession holder have entered into force, the same shall not be contested, and if the decision on the appeal is in force.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u201	We vote on the name of Section XI, as well as Articles 116 to 119, including the Commission Report. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The name of Section XI and Articles 116 to 119, including, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u202	"Chapter 4" "Execution of a concession". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. "Department I. " The conclusion of the concession contract. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 120. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 121. Under art. 122 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 122, para. 2 t. 4 is out. 5 " 26" becomes pcs, respectively. 4 " 25. " The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 122: Art. 122. (1) The concession contract shall be concluded in accordance with the offer of the participant designated as the concession holder and, when concluded with the second-placed participant, in accordance with the offer of the participant or the results achieved in the negotiations. (2) The concession contract shall be concluded in writing and shall contain: 1. the parties to the contract, details of the commercial and other registrations of the concessionaire and the persons representing it; 2. subject matter and value of the concession; 3. the requirements and indicators of the subject-matter of the concession, including the requirements concerning the type and quality of the works and/or services included in the subject-matter of a concession for works and of a concession for services; 4. a description of the business activity to be carried out with the concession subject to a concession for use; 5. description, characteristics and indicators of the object of the concession; 6. the date of entry into force of the contract, the ex ante conditions, where any, the specific duration of the concession and the total duration of all eligible extensions provided for by a review clause; 7. the terms, arrangements and time limits for the transmission of the object of the concession at the beginning and end of the concession, as well as the early termination of the concession contract; 8. the conditions for carrying out the concession and the burdens, where available; 9. the distribution of risks between the concessionaire and the concession; 10. the rights and obligations of the Parties, including the conditions and time limits for their implementation; 11. the amounts, time limits and arrangements for making payments from the concession to the concessionaire, where such payments are envisaged; 12. the amount, time limits and order of payment of the concession fee, where provided; 13. an indexing clause, where such provision is made, containing the terms and arrangements for updating the initial value of the concession and/or payments from and to the concessionaire; 14. the types, size, timing and means of providing guarantees and collateral for the performance of the obligations under the contract; 15. the applicable obligations relating to the national security and defence of the country, to the life and health of citizens, to the environment, to protected areas, zones and sites and to public order, where applicable; 16. the applicable insurance obligations of the site of the concession; 17. the conditions and arrangements for financing the removal of environmental damage; 18. the terms and conditions for carrying out the reporting and control of the fulfilment of the obligations of the concessionaire, including the implementation of the financial and economic model; 19. responsibilities for non-compliance with the obligations of the contract; 20. the terms, procedures and time limits for the exchange of information between the Parties, including by electronic means, and for carrying out the monitoring and control of the performance of the contract; 21. the arrangements for resolving disputes between the Parties; 22. the review clauses, if provided for, as well as the grounds, and the order for early termination of the contract; 23. the requirements concerning the condition in which the object of the concession is passed on to the concession after the expiry of the concession period; 24. the applicable law; 25. the rate of the rate of return for the concessionaire determined by the financial and economic model as well as the order for its calculation, reporting and controlling; 26. Other, depending on the applicable provisions of the current legislation on the site of the concession, construction or services. (3) The concession contract shall determine the specific obligations of the concessionaire in the field of environmental, social and labour law established by national law, European Union law, collective agreements or international conventions in the social field and in the field of the environment referred to in Annex No 5. (4) Where applicable, the concession contract shall also contain: 1. the economic operator representing the group, the lead partner respectively, as well as the proportion of the concession and the types of concession activities that each of the partners will carry out when the beneficiary is a group of economic operators; 2. the proportion of the concession and the types of activities of the subject-matter of the concession to be carried out by subcontractors and, for each of the subcontractors referred to in the application, the details of the commercial and other registrations and of the persons representing it; 3. third parties and a description of the resources of those persons which the concessionaire will have available for the duration of the concession, as well as details of the commercial and other registrations and of the persons representing each third party. (5) An integral part of the concession contract shall be the proposal and the binding proposal of the participant appointed for the
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u203	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 4, Section I and Articles 120 and 121 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The name of Chapter 4 of Section I and Articles 120, 121 of the Commission Report are unanimously adopted. I put to the vote a proposal made by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 11 against 61 and abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 122 on the Commission report. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, there are no abstentions 2. Article 122 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u204	Under art. 123 has a proposal from the MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 123, para. The first sentence is amended as follows: In the event of a breach of the economic balance, each of the parties to the concession contract may request an amendment of the contract to restore the economic balance, which may include a reduction or extension of the concession period. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 123. Under art. 124 has a proposal from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 124: Art. 124. (1) Within one month of the conclusion of the concession contract, the appointed by the concession officer shall send for publication a notice of concession awarded under the terms and conditions of art. 76, para. 1 and 3. (2) The concession award notice shall be published in the relevant electronic form and shall contain the results of the concession award procedure carried out, including: 1. consistency; 2. estimated value and value of the concession; 3. the specific duration of the concession; 4. conditions for the entry into force of the concession contract; 5. information on the concessionaire concerning: (a) the name, respectively the name; (b) the form of participation (c) persons representing the economic operator according to the register in which he is entered, if there is such a register; (d) the name, respectively the name of the subcontractors referred to in the application; 6. the type of procedure carried out; 7. the award criteria; 8. other specified in the relevant electronic form. (3) On the day of dispatch for the publication of the concession award notice, an official appointed by the concession holder shall open in the National concession register a concession account and publish in it the decision determining the concessionaire and concession contract. In the concessional contract published in the National Registry, the information protected by law, sensitive information and information identified as confidential shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-11-15.u205	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 8 against 14, 68 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the texts of the importer for Articles 123 and 124, which are supported and accordingly edited by the Commission in accordance with its Report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. Articles 123 and 124 of the Commission Report are unanimously adopted. It's 3:59 and 50 seconds now. Due to the running out of time for today's plenary session, I am closing it. Tomorrow's regular meeting, 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
