ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u1	There is a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the plenary session. Ladies and gentlemen, at the Presidential Council, which took place just now, we have all united around the agenda, which I will now present to you for a vote. 1. Hearing of Denitsa Zlateva Deputy Prime Minister for the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 on the preparation of the Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union in 2018. Importers: Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Dragomir Stoynev, Christian Vigenin, Valeri Simeonov, Hamid Hamid, Simeonov and Gergana Stefanova on 19 April 2017. I will deviate a little from the protocol to welcome the unanimity with which the draft hearing has been tabled. That's a good start for parliament. Of all the parliamentary groups are the representatives who import it. It's nice to have such an agreement on such national issues. 2. Hearing of the Minister of Health, the Minister of Environment and Water and the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the measures taken to ensure the health of the population. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 19 April 2017 Point 1 for tomorrow, Friday, 21 April 2017 Please vote. Vote 212 MPs: for 212, against and abstention there is no. The program for our work today and tomorrow has been adopted unanimously. Message. A draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the Study of Cases for Unpaid wages was adopted on 19 April 2017. Importers: Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs. In the tensions yesterday, a fourth item of the draft decision on the election of a Temporary Commission for Draft Rules of Procedure for the National Assembly was missed. The deadline is proposed to be fourteen days. I suggest that this period be voted on now. On the second point of the same draft decision, instead of five days, let's write by 18:00 on 24 April 2017, which is actually the deadline that we voted on yesterday. There's no change. We are voting on the proposals that have been made. Vote 213 MPs: for 213, against and abstention there is no. The proposals I made from the ground have been adopted unanimously. Moving on to: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme or measures provided for in Article 21 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Allow me to remind you of the procedure under which the hearing will be conducted. Chapter 10 of our "Parliamentary hearings, surveys and polls": It's 110. (1) The National Assembly or the committees elected by it may hold hearings on matters affecting state or public interests. (2) When the National Assembly shall proceed to the hearing, the proposer of the hearing shall make a statement of the questions within 5 minutes. The persons heard shall inform the National Assembly of the questions to be heard within 10 minutes. Each of the parliamentary groups shall be entitled to 2 questions and the MPs who do not belong to a parliamentary group shall be entitled to one question in total, each matter within 2 minutes to the individual persons heard. Hearing persons shall be responsible after asking each question. Parliamentary groups shall have the right to comment on the answers of the persons heard within 5 minutes of asking all questions. We can move on to the hearing. On behalf of the importers, come in, Mr. Tsvetanov. You have five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u2	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister of the Office, Members of the National Assembly! In the spirit of what the President said just minutes ago, I would like to congratulate absolutely all the parliamentary groups on the actual consensus achieved and the signing of the motives of each parliamentary group in relation to today's hearing. The topic of the Presidency, at least yesterday's declarations, was a top priority for each of the parliamentary groups. From this point of view, the aim of today's hearing is to see what readiness is, what coordination is achieved and the implementation of all deadlines under the forthcoming Presidency. For Bulgaria, it is extremely important that the trio of Estonia, Bulgaria, Austria, what will be the main priorities and all of us as MPs, regardless of which parliamentary group we are from, join together and support both the current Deputy Prime Minister and the future ministers and deputy prime ministers who will respond and actively participate in the implementation of this objective. From this point of view, I believe that today's hearing is extremely useful and will give a new tone of behaviour in the Bulgarian Parliament. I am convinced that this is the intersection around which each of the parliamentary groups will support any action that is for the good performance of our country. I hope that we will actually get the information that is extremely important and valuable to the Members of the National Assembly. Mrs. Zlateva, you will receive our full support in each initiative that is in the interest of the state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Madame Deputy Prime Minister, come in. You have ten minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Tsvetanov! Firstly, allow me to thank all the parliamentary groups who, in their opening statements at the opening of the forty-fourth National Assembly, have put the Presidency as a major, important priority, which is both political and national consensus, because this is one of the conditions to hold a successful Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018. The Presidency is not just a procedure because it is Bulgaria's turn to chair the Council. The Presidency is Bulgaria's opportunity and responsibility to lead a debate in difficult times for Europe. Responsibility because within six months, our country will lead the European Union in debates on topics such as the future of the European Union, negotiations on Britain's exit from the European Union, launching work on the next multiannual financial framework. There we have a clear priority, also set in the programme of the trio, to preserve cohesion policy. Last but not least, and the huge challenge facing Europe, related to the migrant crisis and the security issue, is an opportunity for Bulgaria, because our positions on these different topics will be clearly and clearly heard by all the countries of the European Union, and because we can also put national topics in the framework of this European debate. It is no coincidence that the caretaker government has put the preparation of the upcoming Presidency as one of the two main topics in its work, along with the conduct of fair and democratic elections. I will begin very briefly on the individual elements of the Preparation Plan, with the political aspect of preparation and work on the 18-month programme of the Council of the European Union trio for the period 1 July 2017. 31 December 2018. Bulgaria's contribution is ready, sent to the General Secretariat of the Council. He focused on five main priorities. The first is the Union for Jobs, Growth and Competitiveness. The second main priority is a Union which empowers and protects its citizens. Here we are talking about equal access to quality education; combating poverty; modernizing European and educational learning systems; bringing together education and training and business needs. The third main priority is related to a sensitive topic for our country, such as the Energy Union, focusing on its sustainable construction, ensuring security of energy supply, diversification of energy resources, building interconnectors, which is a topic of national priority, and combating climate change and moving towards low carbon development. The fourth priority is also very sensitive to us. This is the European Union as a Union of Freedom, Security and Justice; ensuring internal and external security; implementing the comprehensive migration policy and the permanent commitment to solidarity support to Member States that are external borders of the Union, including strengthening border control; preventing illegal migration and human trafficking; building a fair European asylum system. Last but not least are the changes of the Dublin regulation, for which Bulgaria is one of the initiators; ensuring effective return policy; creating a strong and independent European Prosecutor's Office. Only two weeks ago 17 Member States of the European Union, in the context of enhanced cooperation, including Bulgaria, supported the creation of the European Prosecutor's Office. Last but not least, another key topic for Bulgaria is the development of e-Justice. The fifth priority is the Union as a powerful factor on the world stage. Two sub-priorities are important for Bulgaria. One is the preservation of dynamics in the process of enlargement and integration of the Western Balkan countries as a matter of strategic interest and long-term investment in ensuring the security, stability and progress of the region and of the whole of Europe. The second sub-priority is the validation of the Union as a stable partner within the Eastern Partnership. Here I would like to open a clamp that, within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, apart from the informal European Council in the format of 27 countries plus Great Britain, is also envisaged a summit of the countries of the Western Balkans. The second version of the 18-month program of the trio is currently under consideration. On 18 April, the Secretariat-General sent the approved second option to the three Member States after the negotiations and consultations between them. We are due on 24 April at a meeting of the Council on European Affairs of the Council of Ministers to adopt all recommendations and to draft and adopt instructions to the negotiating teams. On 26 March, at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, these instructions will also be adopted by a decision of the Council of Ministers to give a greater political burden, because this is expected to be the last consultations between the three countries presiding over the Union, the General Secretariat of the Council, the European Commission, the European External Diplomacy Office, and then shortly before the start of the Estonian Presidency, that is, in June, the programme of the trio will be officially presented. We have also prepared a list of files that are expected to be at the negotiating table during the Bulgarian Presidency. They're based on the information we have at the moment. During the Bulgarian Presidency 135 files will be examined in different sectors and areas. A few of them are expected to go through the so-called trialogue procedure. In this regard, and with a decision of the Council of Ministers, on the recommendation of the sectoral ministries, we have taken advantage of the right given to us by a country presiding to use the capacity of Bulgarians who are already working in the structures of the European Commission, the European Parliament, the Council. 10 people have been approved, who will support our permanent representation in Brussels within these six months. In addition, a representative of the General Secretariat of the Council will be seconded to our Presidency to assist our country's work as chairman. With regard to the National Programme, we have established an initial organization for the development of the National Programme or national priorities within the framework of our six-month rotating presidency. The first version of the National Programme is expected to be ready by the end of June, and the final version must naturally wait for how the files will develop during the Estonian Presidency, which means that at the earliest in November it can be formally presented. Here it is extremely important, in the process of developing the National Programme, not only to use the formal approach of developing priorities by ministries, their approval within the Council on European Affairs, but to try to have a maximum inclusive approach, i.e. to include NGOs, social partners, academics. Initial meetings were held with the various participants within the mandate of the caretaker government. There's a lot of interest in them. With regard to other measures: The Presidency's work teams have been finalized. I want to assure you that this was one of my first applications as a service deputy prime minister that I would guarantee continuity. All teams who worked during and during the previous term are reserved. Nobody gets laid off or fired. We've reinforced the teams. 90 people are assigned to our permanent representation in Brussels to strengthen the permanent representation. We've been trying to catch up on some of the delays. Some of the measures show delays between two and nine months. What we have achieved as an effect is that we have centralized the coordination approach and the work on the preparation of the Presidency, and much of the activities have been concentrated in the hands of the portfolio deputy prime minister. With regard to infrastructure, as such a question has also been asked in the reasons for the hearing, we have finalised all requirements regarding the National Palace of Culture as the main building for the Presidency. I would like to thank all the institutions here, especially the security services, because security emerges as an essential element of preparation and a topic on which there is the greatest interest both from colleagues from Brussels and from diplomatic representations. The order for the repair of the second site is finalized, which is House 2 in Boyana. With regard to the funding of the Presidency, by a decree of the Council of Ministers of 5 April, we have provided the necessary financial resources within the framework of the allocated budget for this year of 50 million. BGN, so that the activities in the renovation of the building fund can be provided, a small part of the security activities and the necessary additional equipment for the Ministry of Interior and not least all activities related to the forthcoming launch of public procurements, both for the development of security systems, accreditation systems, internal and external advertising, visual identity. Last but not least, within these three months, we have also finalised the communication plan for the Presidency. The visual identity of the Bulgarian Presidency is approved. By decision of the Council of Ministers, we chose the Bulgarian National Television (BNT) as host and distributor of the signal during the Presidency. The organization of the press centre of the Bulgarian Presidency and the provision of the media team in Brussels is under way. There are two measures whose term is up to the end of April. One of us will quite purposefully not finalise it because I believe that it is within the authority of the regular government to take such a management decision, and it is related to the need to provide additional staff for the needs of the Presidency and a motivational programme for the teams working on the Presidency. The relevant analyses have been prepared and will be passed on to my successor. Since they are linked to financial security, which at this stage is not guaranteed in the budget, I believe it is more appropriate to make this decision by a regular government. The second measure, which is finalising the end of April, is the preparation of the cultural programme. We are at a very advanced stage, as the work basically started at the beginning of the mandate of the caretaker government, but there are some details between Sofia Municipality and the Ministry of Culture, as the main events will be in the territory of Sofia Municipality and if no agreement is reached, this programme will not be submitted for a decision of the Council of Ministers. Last but not least, as I address you as representatives of the National Assembly, an extremely important focus in the work of the Presidency is also its parliamentary dimension. Within the framework of the service mandate, we had very good cooperation between the Secretary-General of Parliament and the team preparing the Presidency. There are seven events at this stage within the parliamentary dimension. The role of the future Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will also be key. I very much hope that, in the framework of the Presidency's preparation, the Presidency's holding, the European debate will return to plenary and within the committee. Last but not least, once again, I would like to thank you for putting this very important topic at your first meeting within the framework of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. I am using the parliamentary tribune to thank all over 1200 people who are working and making immense efforts on a daily basis so that Bulgaria can face the challenge of the organization and implementation of the upcoming Presidency. I sincerely hope that within the regular government there will be continuity on my part, and the next team will have full support for all the necessary actions that should be taken on the successful preparation and implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Continuing the procedure we are moving on to questions from the parliamentary groups. Here you go. Is there a question from the GERB Parliamentary Group? Here you go, Gemma Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for the information you provided us. What I'm hearing is that we're ready for the stage we're at, which sounds pretty good. I believe so. On our part, what depends on us for the parliamentary dimension will be done within the time limit. The interesting thing is that Bulgaria still takes over the presidency six months earlier than planned. The second is that this is the first Presidency for Bulgaria since we are members of the European Union and it is very important to make it successful. Another characteristic is that the Presidency will be prepared by three successive governments, which very rarely happens in the Member States. The question I am going to ask you is a question of a political solution, but I want to know what the attitudes are so far, because each Presidency has its own special focus and it is important to know what it is. For example, for Estonia, this is a Digital Europe and Eastern Partnership. What will be the special focus of the Presidency of Bulgaria to understand what the added value of our Presidency will be? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u8	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, yes, you are right that a Presidency does not often happen to be prepared by three governments in a row, but this puts our country at even greater challenges and to make efforts. Regarding the focus of the Bulgarian Presidency, I briefed you on the Bulgarian contribution to the trio programme. From the perspective of the caretaker government, naturally, this political decision is to be taken and expressed in the National Programme of the rotating Presidency. The first major focus must be development of entrepreneurship, strengthening competitiveness, developing the single market. The second focus, in my opinion, should be focused on the issue of security, migration policy. We, as an external border of the European Union, are particularly interested in the process of reforming the so-called "Dublin Agreement" and the solidarity distribution of responsibility in dealing with the migrant and refugee crisis. We have one more priority and one red line from which we will not back down, and we even managed to get this topic into the Rome Declaration, which was adopted just a few weeks ago. This is the topic of preserving cohesion policy or what is called a cohesion policy. In foreign policy, a priority for us as a Southeast European country, naturally, is the future European perspective or enlargement of the Western Balkan countries. I will allow myself only one supplement as I tried to fit in within ten minutes of the previous exhibition. Today, the detailed progress report on the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency, which was adopted yesterday at a meeting of the Council of Ministers, will be sent to you later this afternoon to the President of Parliament and to all chairmen of parliamentary groups. It is over 40 pages and I can't get into details, but you will also be able to get acquainted with the individual steps taken by the measures, what is to come and where there are still outstanding implementations of the decisions. What is most important and it also comes into your question about the focus is how we structure and prioritize the political summits during the Bulgarian Presidency. It is noticed by the ministries, perhaps because this is our first presidency, that there is one such overambition to hold as many ministerial meetings as possible. Bulgarian planning towards Estonian is almost three times more ministerial meetings than an average normal presidency has so far realized. I say again, it is understandable because it is the first, but it is also the work of the teams working on the preparation to try to prioritize and select those meetings, those councils, those ministerial conferences that would give the greatest added value, because it is not only a matter of organizing over 34 events in the so-called....................... We've started this process, but we won't have enough time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u9	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Is there a question from the BSP Parliamentary Group for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u10	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister! We understand from your exhibition that Bulgaria is working closely with Austria and Estonia, the so-called Presidential Trio. We are pleased that you have done your job and Bulgaria has contributed to the preparation of the common plan on which the Council will work from July 2017 to December 2018. But we also know that you have given indications that each country is rotating President, is preparing its own national six-month programme. Please inform us how far and at what stage the Bulgarian programme and the process of developing this programme is advanced, what approach will be applied to define priorities and when exactly is it expected to be adopted so that we can assess and to what extent will Parliament have time to discuss it and make its contribution? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Zarkov! And in my presentation I said that the process of preparing the National Program started after the program of the trio was officially adopted. The negotiations on the trio programme will be finalised in May, as is expected at this stage, if there is no need for a third round of negotiations to specify the last details, but at present we expect them to start on 2 May and then within a short period of time to be finalised. The National Programme is a stage of the preparation that follows after the adoption of the priorities of the trio. Within this National Programme Bulgaria must state those areas that are a priority during its rotating presidency. It follows, to a large extent, naturally, the priorities of the trio for the period in which it chairs the Council, but we can always, as a Member State, take one or two national priorities out. There have been various proposals that we have also met through a statement by representatives of political parties in recent days. There are two approaches here. One is, again, the administrative, ministerial approach when the ministries contribute to the National Program. It is watched and approved at a meeting of the Council on European Affairs and, in addition to this formal administrative approach, of course, various discussions, discussions can be held. Parliament is also a place within which both in committees and in plenary, the National Programme and its priorities must be subjected to a very serious political debate. One of the priorities that must necessarily be laid down for me in relation to the forthcoming Council meetings in the Western Balkans format is the perspective across the Western Balkans in terms of European integration and enlargement. We know that enlargement is not part of the strategic agenda of this European Commission, and this has been stated at the time of Mr Juncker's inauguration, i.e. 2019, but given the dynamics of political processes in the Western Balkan countries, I think it is extremely important for us and we should not leave this leading role of other Southeast European Member States to ask the debate and direction for the future development of the Western Balkan countries. The subject is also sensitive. The second priority is related to another region that is strategic for us, this is the Black Sea region. But whatever is included in the National Programme, it must be subject to a wide national consensus, as well as among the political parties that are represented in parliament, but also among the representatives of NGOs, academics. We can use the period of preparation of the National Program. We have foreseen it in the Communication Plan, for a wide range of debates and meetings, different formal or informal formats, so that the Bulgarian society feels involved in the process of preparation because, I admit, sociology shows it, the Presidency is a rather distant topic for the Bulgarians at this stage. I think that's the right approach. Otherwise, the National Programme, as I said, is presented shortly before the end of the previous Presidency of Estonian, because it includes an assessment and analysis of which files, which were in the priorities of the Estonian Presidency, will be transferred within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency. Again, I have told you, about 135 files at this stage will be considered during our Presidency and Parliament's responsibility is very high. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. It's a matter of the United patriots. You have the floor, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd like to congratulate you on your election and give you a book.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u16	She's important. I would like to congratulate the Members of the National Assembly with the beginning of our work and with my first speech I would like to draw your attention to the fact that so far, the work that has been done is at zero. These priorities, which Mrs. Zlateva listed us, if I become a member of the Committee on European Affairs and EU Funds, I would like to challenge them and to be revised, to remain only two of them. I would like to point out to you, Members of Parliament, that what Mrs Zlateva said in her reply is absurd to continue the priorities that Estonia has set. Estonia has set very different priorities for itself that affect us to some extent, but we cannot continue this. Moreover, it changes the overall course of the other presidencies, puts its priorities aside from what it was. I would like to remind you that what we have been offered as priorities with an emphasis on jobs, of course, there is another formulation of a quality education and an energy union, certainly with the introduction of judicial reforms and so on, imagine Bulgaria being the coordinator of the European Union's relations and the European Union on the world stage. That's absurd. This does not comply with the guidelines given for the preparation of priorities, and they are at this point to have a European neighbourhood. In that regard, it's my question. It is like this: Mrs. Zlateva, have you found a system that is clear, accurate for the criteria by which our representatives are chosen, experts in the different bodies and especially in the Secretariat-General? For your information, the Secretariat-General who assists our Presidency is an organisation with 2500 experts. Have you found a system that clearly, precisely and categorically clear which people we send to the General Secretariat and to other structures? In what way were they sent? I'm sorry Mr. Donchev isn't here, but I hope Mr. Tsvetanov will tell him. Mr. Tsvetanov, are you going to tell Mr. Donchev what I'm going to propose to him to review very thoroughly the way our experts at the General Secretariat have been selected?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u17	I remind you, Mr. Petrov, that the issue is for the Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u18	Yes, but I wanted this to be heard because it's very important. The Kadrov question will also solve the question of Bulgaria. I continue to argue that these priorities are shifting the focus from the previous Presidency of Malta and going in another direction... the one Estonia, with the huge investments of the European Union, managed to push through, to make electronic governments and so on, things that are interesting to us, but we have other accents which, on another occasion, I can introduce Mrs. Zlateva. But our parliamentary group will surely come up with a proposal to change this agenda. He is indisposed and does not meet our national demands and interests.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Madam Vice Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u20	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A series of questions also put a colleague from the United patriots' parliamentary group. First of all, perhaps I should clarify the technology for the development of the trio program. It's gone, isn't it, the thesis that we're being given Estonian priorities and I'd say it's quite wrong. Because the three rotating presidencies give their priorities and they are made and sent to the Secretariat-General on 3 November 2016. These priorities then, in cooperation with the teams of our Permanent Representation in Brussels and with colleagues from the General Secretariat, are summarized in the so-called "Three-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treats-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treats-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treaty-Treats-Treats-Treaty-Treaty. A significant contribution to the fifth priority of Europe as a global player on the world stage is given, and this is in the exclusive powers of the European External Diplomacy Service, Bulgaria's contribution within this priority, related to the topic of integration of the Western Balkans, and also to the topic of the European Union as a stable partner in our neighbourhood and rather to preserving the Eastern Partnership. Once the contribution has been sent and the first version of a trio programme has been proposed, so-called supposed consultations and negotiations between the three presiding countries and between the European Commission, the General Secretariat of the Council and the European External Diplomacy Office shall begin. In the framework of those negotiations, each Member State shall naturally protect, accept or not accept proposals for change by others. I told you that on 11 April 2017 we were sent the second version of the priorities of the trio and we will take the instructions to our permanent representation for participation in these consultations on Monday. After the meeting of the Council of Ministers on the 26th, I will also send to the President of Parliament information on what will be Bulgaria's main negotiating positions regarding the Programme. I cannot accept your claim that these priorities are imposed on us by another Member State and they do not take into account national interests. I once again said that you, as an active future participant in the Committee on European Affairs, will certainly have the opportunity within the framework of the forthcoming debates very actively to defend your position on priorities in the National Programme of the rotating Presidency. Regarding whether I have found a system for nominating and sending Bulgarian representatives to the teams of the General Secretariat, I would like to tell you that we are not sending as a country of rotating presidency people to the General Secretariat. On the contrary, the Secretariat-General provides us in the form of technical assistance to their staff, who will be in Bulgaria on the ground during the Bulgarian Presidency. What we have done and what we have the right to benefit from is Bulgarian officials working in the European institutions, the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council, not only in the Secretariat-General, on a proposal from the sectoral ministries to assist the activities of our permanent representation in Brussels during the Bulgarian Presidency and I will give you a concrete example. Colleagues from the Ministry of Interior have expressed a desire to take this is called reverse rotation, during the Bulgarian Presidency an official from the European Parliament, who is very familiar with the so-called "trialogue" procedure, as it turned out that 14 files from the sector "Interior works" during our Presidency will have to go through a trialog procedure, 10 people who work in these institutions, already with a decision of the Council of Ministers, will be moved within the framework of our Permanent Representation. What we have done because it is a process that has started with the previous government and we have continued it is to post additional staff from the portfolio ministries and to strengthen our administrative permanent representation in Brussels. At this stage there are 108 employees. By the beginning of our presidency, rather by the beginning of July, because they must enter and start work, be moved before the start of the troika, another 90 people will be posted on a proposal from the sectoral ministries. This is a system and by a decree of the Council of Ministers there are certain numbers at the request of the sector ministries, and if you meant yes, there was such a solution, we continue it and implement it with the very clear deadlines for the secondment of these employees. Within the mandate of the caretaker government there was also a need for additional numbers of other institutions or sectoral ministries, depending on what new files will fall to be considered during the Bulgarian Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u21	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u22	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, in turn we would also like to thank you for your information. It's obvious from the information that a huge job has been done. There is an acceleration in the process of preparation for the Presidency, which is coming to us from the beginning of next year. Of course, there shouldn't be any relief. We must continue the preparations for the Presidency at the very least at the same pace in order to present ourselves with dignity and realize what is necessary for our country as well. I would also like to draw attention to the priorities that we should draw, apart from the preparations to be carried out. Naturally, these priorities, if adopted, must be shared by our partners from the European Union and other Member States. In this regard, unfortunately, we must point out that Bulgaria is one of the poorest countries within the European Union. We have a very long way to go to align ourselves with the criteria that other Member States have achieved in terms of economic indicators, with regard to the social vector and so on. Another country that is in the same situation as ours is Romania. But, unfortunately, lately it seems like we've been falling behind her, too. In view of this, I believe that it is important to maximise the implementation and use of cohesion funds and the principle of solidarity that are fundamental both as policies and principles in the European Union. Given that Britain is leaving the European Union and is about to review the budget, of course, which will have a serious impact, given that Britain is one of the most serious net payers. Let us not forget that they are, after all, the fifth economy in the world, and it is very important to us on what principle there will be a redistribution of funds, especially with regard to the funds that I have pointed out, in view of the cohesion that needs to be implemented. Recently, in the discussion on Bulgaria's priority during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, municipalities raised the issue of the need to improve EU regional development policies as part of cohesion policy. In this regard, my question is as follows: will Bulgaria define as its priority, which will actively defend the strengthening of solidarity and cohesion as fundamental principles of the European Union? How will the challenges facing these principles be addressed in relation to Britain's exit from the European Union and the related reduction of the budget as a whole? We hope that this will become differentiated in view of what needs to be implemented both in our country and in countries that are in a similar situation as ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u24	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, you have raised two key questions. One is related to the issue of the negotiations on Britain's exit from the European Union, which will be a major topic during the Bulgarian Presidency and will cover the start of the second year of the negotiation process. Here Bulgaria has a very clear position which it defends and it is in line with the European approach to starting negotiations. Just for your information, at the time of various "General Affairs Council', the extraordinary European Council is on the 29th, the procedural rules on which the negotiations between the European Union and Britain will be conducted are to be adopted. There are several red lines that are important to us as a Member State and from which we will not retreat within and within the European position. The first is related to the issue you have raised about Britain's financial commitments to the European Union budget. Here, Bulgaria and the other Member States strongly defend, firstly, the principle that negotiations should be conducted in the format of the European Union and not bilaterally. And the second is that, in order to start the second stage of the negotiations process with Britain, namely the signing of a strategic agreement between the European Union and Britain, one of the conditions is for Great Britain to fulfil the financial commitments made to the already voted budget of the Union. On the second topic related to the issue of solidarity, cohesion, cohesion policy in general, we also have a key role in the form of Visegrad plus 4s, i.e. the four Visegrad countries, Bulgaria, Romania, Croatia and Slovenia. There are regular meetings between the ministers, in this case Deputy Prime Minister Ms. Malina Krumova participates in this meeting. You know that Bulgaria has made exceptional progress in the Roman Declaration as well. In two places, both in social policy and economic development, we introduced cohesion as a key instrument for both territorial cohesion and social cohesion within the European Union. Within the framework of the Bulgarian contribution to the programme of the trio, it is clear to us that it cannot be in the volume and scope that is currently, not only because Great Britain will come out of the European Union and its contribution to the Union budget or must be reassigned in some way, or shortened, but also because Europe is facing many other challenges that require serious financial resources such as the issue of security and the migrant crisis. However, in any event, at the forthcoming meeting of the General Affairs Council in the format of "Cohesion" on 25 April in Luxembourg, Bulgaria will defend the position that cohesion policy should be defended and financially provided within the next programming period. And here it is extremely important that our proactive role is not only during the Presidency to put it as a priority, what we have done, but also in the framework of the negotiations to really find allies, not only in the form of Visegrad plus 4 So one of the basic principles, namely the principle of cohesion of the European Union, will also be preserved for the period after 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Do you have a question from the Parliamentary Group of Willia? You don't. Is there a second question from the GERB Parliamentary Group to Deputy Prime Minister Zlateva? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Turnovaliski, for a second question to Deputy Prime Minister Zlateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u26	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members! The topic of the Bulgarian Presidency excites Bulgarian citizens especially in the part about the funds that will be spent for the successful preparation and successful implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. In some media interpretations and speculations on this topic were allowed, and the caretaker government made an estimated allocation of funds for the Bulgarian Presidency, which by budget is 150 million. lv. Our question is: is the funds provided enough to cover all activities for the successful Presidency and, if necessary, an increase, when should it be done and to what extent? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovalysky. Here you are, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for an answer. CHIEF MINISTER - PRINCIPAL DAY GOLDEN: Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, Dear Mr. Turnovalyski! I thank you for the question related to the financial provision of the Bulgarian Presidency, because in the last few weeks there has been a lot of speculation in the media about the fact that the Presidency will be the most expensive, that it will cost more than 230 million. lv. There is a budget voted by the previous regular government of 150 million. BGN, allocated in the three financial years 2016 and 2018 at 50 million lv. For 2016 of the planned 50 million. lv. About 23 and 17 million were spent. lv. an increase in the capital of the National Palace of Culture, which will start the construction and adaptation activities of the building, and the funds that have been allocated to start the renovation of the Hall of St. Sofia, which will be the next plenary hall of the National Assembly, i.e. for 2016 we have an unused resource of nearly 27 million. lv. For this financial year, a decree of the Council of Ministers distributed the funds, which are also financially provided in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017, namely 50 million. BGN, because by virtue of art. 75, para. 2 of the State Budget Act, the national co-ordinator for the preparation of the Presidency, in this case the portfolio deputy prime minister, can allocate and offer a financial plan only in the amount of the funds provided, which is 50 million. We, together with the Ministry of Finance, also taking into account the demands of the portfolio ministries, have distributed 37 million by a decree of the Council of Ministers. $240,000. BGN, with a little more than 9 million added to them. BGN and these are the costs of additional seconded staff in our permanent representation in Brussels. I will not hide that, in the year preceding the Presidency, the volume of funds needed for its financial security is not equal to one third of the budget allocated. In this regard, the next regular government will also be presented with a report on the need for additional financial provision of activities related to the preparation of the Presidency, which at this stage will not exceed the general budgetary framework of 150 million. BGN, but which must be provided for this financial year in order to be able to start activities mainly in the field of security in the areas related to... Why do I say security? Because in February, absolutely all security requirements were finalised, along the routes from Sofia airport to the buildings, to the hotels, but also the entire security component related to the reconstruction of the National Palace of Culture. All these requirements are valued, the prescriptions are made by an interdepartmental working group - Security - in which absolutely all institutions participate. In addition, there are additional financial requirements regarding the adaptation of the House 2 in Boyana. In addition to the necessary means for construction and repair activities NSO, there are prescriptions for strengthening and building video surveillance and other organizational measures, as well as purchasing equipment. The ministers have also provided financial requests for 2017 and 2018, which are only partially satisfied, I say again, within the framework of the funds provided by the State Budget Act, but we have a complete breakdown. This is also within the powers of the Centre for the Preparation of the EU Presidency.. A body that will continue to act after the mandate of the caretaker government, so that all the necessary resources will be obtained and the next finance minister will quite, as appropriate, provide the necessary financial resources, I say, at this stage within the budget of 150 million voted. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. From the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs. However, you ran out of time during the first opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u29	Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, my question relates to the fact that when you answered the question in your statement you said that last year's money was spent, so to speak in computer language, only hardware and nothing about software. In this regard, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that Bulgaria will be presiding and that the future Minister of Agriculture and Food will be President of the European Council - these are the rules when the common agricultural policy is being hosted. That is true. There the respective minister of staff becomes President of the European Council. In this regard, I would like to say that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food has heroically dealt with the conditions. There are computers with disks and there is no modern computer system that binds them to one program that has them. Have you noticed that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food in this state is not in a position to play its role as President of the Council of Europe when considering the common agricultural policy? Have you indicated any measures to prevent this? [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]] This is absolutely true, Mrs. Stoyanova, you gave us money for a budget and the ministry really gets the money they need. [[Noise, excitement and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Here you are, Madame Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I confess: I have no information that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food works with disks. Within the Presidency's budget, the necessary financial resources are provided to prepare the meetings to be hosted by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. They are based on very clearly accepted and written guidelines for organizing events of different types of meetings: ministerial, expert, parliamentary dimension and events under the auspices of the Presidency. I believe that the technical provision of portfolio ministries with equipment and other equipment is part of the ministry's operational activities, and it is unlikely that the Presidency should be used as a reason or reason to be provided. Again, this is not within the scope and subject of the activity of the deputy prime minister in the preparation of the Presidency. Otherwise you are right: many ministers will chair various council formats. The Ministry of Agriculture and Food is one of them. Only the Foreign Policy Council in the part of foreign policy, in the part of security, the European Council has elected permanent presidents. Here I will open a clamp and say that for the future political teams, a deputy prime minister or a minister who will represent Bulgaria in the Council, a minister or a deputy minister who will represent the Council in the European Parliament during the Bulgarian Presidency, the future speaker of the Presidency, the future sectoral ministers there is special training provided for them by the General Secretariat of the Council and by the colleagues of the European Parliament. These nominations have not been made and the trainings have not been launched because I do not think it is within the authority of the caretaker government to designate the political persons who will represent and guide the rotating Presidency in the various formats. One of the tasks that must be resolved quickly, however, is the issue of the speaker of the Presidency and who will be the two ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister or Deputy Minister, there are different formats in the Member States that will represent the Council and will lead the General Affairs Council and represent the Council in the European Parliament format, because Members from the General Secretariat of the European Parliament want to start the political trainings of the ministers nominated for this purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is welcome, Mr. Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u33	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is in the interests of Bulgaria and the other Member States to work to improve and develop policies to generate economic growth, increase the competitiveness of the European Union as a whole and of individual countries to bring, highlight, create more jobs, promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation in the economy. This, in turn, also prejudges the continuation of such initiatives as the action of the European Fund for Strategic Investments under the Juncker Plan by 2020; the continuation of funding through the European Structural Funds of investments in measures to increase the qualification of the workforce and in measures relating to improving the quality of education. In the context of Bulgaria's interests these are basic measures for combating poverty. Yesterday during the speeches of all parliamentary groups, poverty was referred to as a very serious problem for our country. In this respect, in the current format of the National Assembly, this should be a focus for all of us. It should also be a priority during the Presidency. For the DPS, that would be true. In this regard, my question, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, is the following: will Bulgaria identify as a priority that will actively protect, improve and develop policies to generate economic growth, increase the competitiveness of the European Union as a whole and individual countries, which will lead to more jobs being created, promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and innovation in the economy? It is very important for us to actually be one of the serious political mechanisms and instruments for combating poverty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. Madam Deputy Prime Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u35	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chakarov, the question you are asking is extremely important. You have also addressed the topic of the Fund for Strategic Investments or the so-called Fund for Juncker. We have our national position that we support the extension of the Fund's scope and the volume of financial resources that will be provided to 500 billion. Euros. We have made it very clear that we want the scope of the projects to be financed to be more balanced. It should also be better geographically balanced this European Fund for Strategic Investments. Regarding the question whether Bulgaria will prioritise the approval and development of policies for generating economic growth, I say again, according to the Bulgarian contribution to the programme of the trio, the priority is jobs, growth and competitiveness. We focus on job creation through support for digital and innovation-based entrepreneurship; support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, for the so-called start-ups and start-ups and, including by providing access to alternative forms of funding; support for investment in research and innovation; systematic implementation of the principle; first of all, for small and medium-sized enterprises; reducing youth unemployment and creating conditions for European citizens to take advantage of the opportunities to work within the single market; improving the links between education systems and the labour market and, last but not least, modernisation of education systems. Within the framework of the National Programme should be a priority and the development of policies that generate economic growth, and here all the proposals of the responsible institutions, the social economic partners, the non-governmental sector and others should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u36	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Will the Parliamentary Group of Will have any questions or not?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u37	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u38	There won't be. You have five minutes each from a parliamentary group for consideration. From the GERB Parliamentary Group? I won't. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! First of all, I would like to thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for the information you have provided us and for the apparently serious work that your team has done to overcome the lag. We hope that the good work, the good momentum that you have created will be continued by the next cabinet. We from BSP for Bulgaria believe that our political power has made a decisive contribution to Bulgaria's membership in the European Union at the time when it was responsible for the management and that is why we are ready to support various initiatives of the next cabinet, which will help Bulgaria to fulfil its commitments more effectively with regard to the Presidency and other initiatives that will position Bulgaria better within the European Union. We think, and this is rather a view of both the future and recommendations to the future cabinet. We believe that the future presidency of Bulgaria since the beginning of next year is a good occasion within this year, if we must and jointly, to raise two important topics for Bulgaria, as the situation is favourable for their resolution. First, Bulgaria's Schengen membership. We believe that a country which holds the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is logical, using the more favourable situation, to make the appropriate steps before the Presidency itself becomes part of the Schengen Agreement. To this end, allies can be sought, of course, in the face of Romania and in the face of the countries that have been supporting us in this direction for a long time. Elections are coming in one of the countries, which so far blocks our membership, perhaps for this there will be more favourable prerequisites after that. The second topic that we consider important is the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. In our view, the time has come to put this issue back on the basis of the 10-year report, which was recently presented by the European Commission, in the second half of this year, to begin at least talks about the staged cancellation of this mechanism. This, of course, is a commitment that must be widely supported and with relevant action in line with the recommendations of the European Commission from the last report. During our Presidency there are important discussions ahead, important debates on which we believe that Bulgaria should have a very united position. In this direction, we are also prepared to lend a hand to the ruling majority. The exit of the UK will be discussed and the effects on Bulgaria of this process will be discussed accordingly. This is a topic which should also be widely discussed in the government, but especially here in the National Assembly. The second topic for the future of the European Union, the European Union at many speeds, which also sparked some debate some time ago, but again faded, we believe that the place here of the National Assembly is to continue to be discussed so that Bulgaria can have a sufficiently united and clear position on this, when leading the European Union, what are our preferences, our priorities. We believe that it is very important to have such a position in terms of the future of cohesion policy. During our Presidency, the work or discussion on the next European Union financial framework 2020 will begin. There will be a number of challenges associated with leaving Britain. For us this policy is key and here again we need to seek national agreement on what cohesion policy of the European Union should be, so that the Bulgarian interest is as protected as possible. And two, rather foreign policy topics that directly affect Bulgaria. They were outlined by Deputy Prime Minister Zlateva. With regard to the Western Balkans, I am pleased that the ruling majority in several statements has already commented on this issue and the security risks in our region, but this issue is also key in view of the need to strengthen our positions in the region and the need to pay more attention to the problems in the Western Balkans above all. We must use our Presidency to put this issue and these topics seriously enough. Finally, the Black Sea Strategy. We think it is a good reason for Bulgaria to put the issue of the upgrade of the Black Sea Synergy again and for making it a full strategy. This could also be a chance to gradually reduce tensions in the Black Sea region and use the opportunities of our Presidency to make a serious contribution in this direction. I can see the coworkers are getting impatient, but still...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u40	You're out of minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u41	That's true, but since you've been generous to the representatives of the ruling majority, I think you can give us two or three more minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u42	Do you consider Madame Deputy Prime Minister to be the ruling majority? [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u43	No. I would like to emphasise that, in the previous Parliament, we have seen cases where, in practice, European themes were completely absent from our work. The Prime Minister did not inform us about the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency as per the Rules of Procedure, he did not inform us about the Bulgarian positions before...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u44	You're out of procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u45	Of course, Mr. Glauchev, but I would like to highlight...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u46	Your time ran out a minute ago. I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u47	Mr. Borisov at the leadership meeting promised...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u48	I'll take your word for it, Mr. Vigenin, you're out of the procedure in minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u49	Mr. Glauchev, I don't think you're starting quite well. Give me one more minute to finish what I have to say. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u50	If it's about the subject, but you're still in violation of the scheduled time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u51	It's absolutely on the subject. European issues, European themes, their place to solve is here. This commitment was made by the leader of the majority ruling party GERB. We will be very careful to see if this is happening. If so, you will have our support on this subject. If not, our position can be revised. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-20.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. From the Parliamentary Group of United patriots for attitude? I won't. From the Parliamentary Group Movement for Rights and Freedoms? I won't. There is none from the Parliamentary Group of Volya. That concludes today's agenda. Thank you for participating in the hearing, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. Tomorrow's regular session is at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
