ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Before we move on to parliamentary control, there are reports: "Dear Mr. Glauchev, at his regular meeting held on 31 May 2017, the Committee on Budget and Finance, in implementation of art. 25, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, elected from its composition a permanent subcommittee on public sector accountability. The subcommittee consists of six MPs and is in the following composition: Chairman of the National Assembly: Diana Ivanova Yordanova, members of the National Assembly, Dora Ilieva Yankova, Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov, Sergey Manushov Kichikov, Krastina Nikolova Taskova. Menda Stoyanova, Chairman of the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 26 May 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2017 to 25 May 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2017 to 25 May 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 May 2017 to 25 May 2017. No 711-00-2 was submitted to the National Assembly a report on financial management and control and internal audit at the Supreme Judicial Council for 2016. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Sub-Committee on Public Sector Accountability to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria shall inform the National Assembly that: 1. in the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, etc. 4 of Decision No 829/30.09.2016 of the Council of Ministers, by its order, organised the participation of a military ship The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities; 2. In the implementation of the Plan for the Preparation of the Defence Headquarters, the Bulgarian Army and the structures of direct submission of the Minister of Defence in 2017 from 7 to 16 June 2017 will be conducted a pilot training. The notifications were received on 1 June 2017 with an indication of the date of entry into force of this Regulation. No 703-09-10 and vh. No 703-09-11 and provided to the Defence Committee. New questions concerning the period from 26 May to 1 June 2017: A question has been received from the MP Anton Konstantinov Kutev to Boyko Borisov, Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, concerning the government's personnel policy. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 9 June 2017. A question was received from the National Representative Krasimir Hristov Jankov to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, about the creation of a functional model and policy for the implementation of the main tasks of the Ministry of Interior. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 9 June 2017. Mrs. Zaharieva, please come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u2	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! It's June 2nd, Botev Day. The day that reminds us that we all owe. A day that reminds us that for us Bulgarians, there are words that bring great power to honor, dignity, righteousness, freedom. They've marked our past, they've spelled our flags, they've pronounced blood oaths, decent men, women and children in their mouths, they've met death, and they've crossed into immortality, where they're looking at us today with those same words in their eyes! Therefore, today, honourable MPs, on a memorable and holy day, it is not enough to remember them. Silence of honor and gums don't buy out their sacrifice. Botev's Day is a day that reminds us that we owe to them and to the bright ideals that they followed. That day reminds us that the motherland for whose name they put their names in history is vast. It covers the territory, the state, the past, the present and each of us cannot hide behind someone else's back because we are constantly under the silent eyes of the hundreds who died for the freedom of Bulgaria. Each of us, honourable colleagues, determines its image and it is up to us to have this part of our planet clean and beautiful and the name Bulgaria to make us raise our heads proudly. Dear colleagues, today we bow to heroism. He comes with the smell of blood, with the sound of groans and mighty songs, of widowly cries and children's laughter. It comes with the memory of the proudly raised against death Botevo forehead, shortly after this Titan knelt low on the Danube shore for his most sacred kiss the one with the motherland. Today the past speaks to us. The big ones kneel low only in front of her in front of Bulgaria! They don't want anything and they give everything! And if today we look back, it is to feel with our hearts that, as the descendants of a great and mighty people, we are blessed with the highest mission to be Bulgarians every minute, to be Bulgarians with every thought and act, to stand by our decisions, led by the thought of Bulgaria! And not everyone for themselves, but together we all draw the path of her future. Deep bow to the memory of the heroes! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u3	Mr. Hristov, please come for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! It's June 2nd. In a few minutes, maybe three hours, they'll turn the sirens on the outside. Some will stop, perhaps by momentum, others will stop from being courteous, others will stop, but their thoughts will continue to move on the little things of today, the fourth will not stop, and they will be many. To them, that day has simply become a day of empty courtesies. They do not see the point of participating in this silent worship. You know, when more people stop stopping, that means one thing: indifference to our common destiny. Countries and nations have often gone away not because of wars, not because of invasions, not because of upheavals. Before that happened, they were gone internally, spiritually. The nations and nations have gone from indifference. Today is June 2nd, and we have to think that the indifference with which we, with our eyes wide closed, watch our country run out should remind us of a few things. With wide closed eyes filled with indifference we see Bulgaria leaking out. The time of Bulgaria is running out, the historical time. He runs out with every good kid who goes through Terminal 2 and never comes back. He runs out with the grandmothers who go to see their grandkids across the ocean, they can't get along in common because these kids don't speak it anymore. Expires with another closed deserted village, runs with the closed eyes of our grandparents, parents who built this country with a twenty penny working day, as the poet Penyo Penev used to say. Our country runs out for the simple reason that we do not see value in it. This country runs out for the simple reason that we with wide closed eyes see how our relationship has become an enemy's relationship. As the great Bulgarian writer Svoboda Bachvarova used to say: There is no mercy among the Bulgarians and that is why we are running out of the country. Our country runs out because we have no common idea and no common goal. Our country runs out with 40 percent functional illiterateness, and the other 60% have a different degree of illiterateness already. A country that was proud of the fact that man would sell his sweetest to learn his children, is now proud that his children can still write in some language. Our country expires with the fact that today on June 2nd most of us do not see each other in the same community. When they turn the sirens in a moment, they try not only to tear apart the thick diaper of our human insolence, they tear apart the darkness of history and from the crack of eternity they begin to defile the shadows of our great living dead: of Botieov, a 28-year-old young man who remained there forever on the Vola; of Benkovski; of Kableshkov, a 19-year-old boy; of Tsanko Dustabanov; of Georgi Condolov, who, before he died, told his reading: "Cut off my head and the dice here, and above play the horo, so that the soulman can't know where my grave is! Imagine what an ancient tragedy this is! This is the time when the sirens are marching and our great dead are watching us for eternity. Some time ago, a smart man, currently a guard at Sofia University, told me the following: I traveled from Sofia to Varna on the night train and watched the lights of Bulgaria and there was a twinkle of light. Bulgaria looked to me like Samuel's army: blind men with eyes and here and there by someone seeing. When the sirens are coming, dear colleagues, think about it! In the temple of our own conscience, which has it, it is that when they look at us, on the one hand they look at us the great living dead, who ask us the test question: "We have closed our eyes to open the eyes of Bulgaria! On the other side is us, it is up to us whether we close the eyes of this Bulgaria or take it again on its path. One thing to remember: June 2nd is not a date, June 2nd should be every day. Thank you. [[Lowered applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written answers from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - written answer from the Minister of Health Nikolai Petrov to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - written answer by the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to Ahmed Ahmedov's question; - written answer of the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - written answer from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Svilenski; - written answer of the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of the National Representative Irena Anastasova; - written answer from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Krasen Krastev; - written answer of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov to two questions by the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - written answer of the Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov; - written answer of the Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - written answer of the Minister of Agriculture and Food Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov; - written answer from the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to two questions from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - written answer from the Minister of Health Nikolai to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. We move on to the first question from today's parliamentary control to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Ivo Angelov Hristov concerning found old unexploded ammunition in the region of Trakiya. Here you are, Mr. Hristov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u6	Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! On the 2nd of May in excavation works in the Plovdiv region of Trakiya. The first air force was opened, in the next two days the number of similar ammunition reached 10. In the first hours, the Ministry of Interior and the local authorities responded adequately by evacuating the residents, and the bomb squad that was sent there managed professionally. However, the follow-up of the authorities cannot be said the same. For more than 48 hours there was no comment on the situation by a competent person. About 250 Plovdiv people experienced several evacuations and just before the holidays it became clear that there is no specialized technique with which the region will be thoroughly investigated. It is known that this part of the housing complex was an aviation unit to the Air Force, therefore the doubts that there may be more buried bombs are justified. People fear for the lives of their children who play in the green areas of interblock spaces. Dear Minister, my question is this: was there any connection with the Ministry of Defence regarding this case? Has the Department of Defense asked for help and in what form? Does the Bulgarian army have available equipment and human potential for immediate response in such critical situations to ensure the life and health of Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov. Three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Hristov, I took office on the 4th and this was the first information I received from the duty officer about this case in Trakiya District. Two requests from the Ministry of Interior to the Ministry of Defence for the seizure and disposal of unexploded military supplies were made on 3 and 4 May as regards the open military supplies. As a result of these requests, a formation has been activated to neutralize unexploded ammunition distributed in the city of Plovdiv. A total of 10 combat supplies, as you said, of a different kind and caliber, were discovered during the specialized activities on 3 and 4 May, which were destroyed on specialized military polygons outside the city. Regarding the question raised by you: whether the Bulgarian Army has available equipment and human immediate response potential in such critical situations, I inform you that according to General Order No 35 of 14 January 2016, the Minister of Defence has determined the number of formations to neutralize unexploded combat supplies and their areas of responsibility on a territorial principle, according to their dislocation. Those formations have received specialized training and have the necessary equipment and equipment to carry out the tasks assigned to them. According to the Plan of the Ministry of Defence for the Protection of Disaster No 39/9 of 27 July 2012, the formations for the control and overcoming of the consequences of disasters of the composition of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria maintain a constant readiness for the execution of tasks of intelligence, transport, destruction of unexploded ammunition found on the territory of the country, outside the territories of the military polygons, areas and sites. By the way, there are regular similar signals from the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. The line, Mr. Hristov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u10	Madam President! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. I personally do not doubt your competence and good desire. The question is, has the area been properly investigated and is there any danger of further disclosures of this type of ammunition? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u11	Thank you, Mr. Christov. A hole, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Hristov, there is no such information about the risk of detection or problems with similar ammunition in the area of Zhk "Trakiya" in the town of Plovdiv at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to a second question from the National Representative Petar Boykov Vitanov about the financial situation of the Military Publishing House. Here you are, Mr. Vitanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! My question, Minister, is related to the financial situation of the Military Publishing House. At the time when the manager of the Military Publishing House was Dragomir Petkov, payments to the National Insurance Institute were suspended. Why the governor then allowed it, only he could say, but that is, to put it mildly, unacceptable. In this way, debts are accumulated to the NSI, and the relevant legal procedures are taken from there and since the end of last year the accounts of the Company are kept. It should be noted here that the Military Publishing House is 100% state property, with the principal Minister of Defence. In early November, then Defence Minister Nikolay Nenchev fired Dragomir Petkov and was appointed Nikolai Gusev. This change did not result in a positive result and from December the employees of the Military Publishing Office did not receive their wages. They are sporadically paid partial advances that do not account for half of what is due to them as a salary. In the beginning of March 2017, the Minister of Staff of the Robbery Stefan Yanev fired Nikolay Gusev and appointed Nikolay Rusatev as Governor. Despite the change, the Military Publishing Office continues to have accounts secured and employees continue to be without wages. In this regard, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you: what measures have you taken as the principal of this trading company to be stabilized and its employees to receive their due wages? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. For a response, "Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence." Here you go, Mr. Karakachanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Vitanov, with Protocol No 3626 of 27 February 2017 of the Minister of Defence, as managing the rights of the state as sole owner of the capital of the Military Publishing House, was elected Nikolay Georgiev Rasate as manager of the trading company. It was concluded on 27 February 2017, in force on 8 March 2017, for the award of management of a single company with limited liability. Under the contract, the manager is responsible for operating management of the company. After getting acquainted with a report with registration No 23-0210 of 11 May 2017 of the Director of the Department of Defence Office, in which the company was found to be in poor financial condition, and as no capital restructuring plan is currently envisaged, I asked the Director of the Military Publishing Company to present a written plan for the future development of the company and to specify specific measures for its financial stabilisation. I'm just gonna give you a few numbers. The state of the Military Publishing House has been extremely critical for years. The obligations of the Military Publishing Office on 31 March this year are 1 million. $4,000. lv. For only the first three months of 2017, the accounting loss of the publishing company was 69 thousand. lv. The problems here are several, at least as far as I know them, but, again, I have assigned to the performer now, he has not been replaced, the manager of the Military Publishing House is going to come up with a plan to improve the financial situation, including the question that you are asking for employees to get their salaries. I think the management of this company needs to be improved. It deals exclusively with the publication of literature. Given that there are two other publishing structures in the structures of the Bulgarian Army, the Military Academy and the Cartography in Troyan, there is virtually one type of internal competition in the Ministry of Defence itself, which, as you can see, cannot lead to positive results. My personal view is that a mechanism must be sought to unite these activities in order to be able to carry out a publishing activity, regardless of whether it will remain in the Military Publishing House, or in any of the other two structures, taking over even the materials necessary for printing, related to the activities of the Ministry of Defence, regulations and all other things, to be able to support itself. In this situation, it's not a good situation. There have been appetites for years with regard to a property located in the center of Sofia. I can assure you that I will not allow this building to be privatized or in the form of obligations to be taken from us. This is an extremely valuable property in the center of Sofia and it will not be allowed to end in the way it ended, unfortunately, many other properties of our Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Vitanov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u18	Madam President! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I understand that the condition is still critical. Perhaps a series of measures should be taken to enable recovery. Perhaps one of the measures should include the efforts of the Ministry of Defence to assist the Military Publishing Office to enter into an agreement with the NSI in order to lift the claim, to start working and to pay off its employees. Moreover, you mentioned the events, but as a minister you could direct orders to the Military Publishing Office and thus help stabilize it. As far as I am informed, now 100% of the Ministry of Defence's activities....... precisely all printed materials expressing the official identity go to the printery in the Ministry of Troyan.................................................................................. Some of this event could also be given to the Military Publishing House.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. For the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. You don't want to. The next question is again from Mr. Petar Vitanov on the position of the Ministry of Defence for the upcoming NATO summit in Brussels. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u20	Dear Madam President, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, colleagues! My question is provoked by the NATO summit held on 25 May 2017 in Brussels and is a consequence of the controversial messages of the previous government on the extremely important issue of national security about the enhanced front military presence, including in the Black Sea aquatory. As is known, at the previous meeting in 2016 in Warsaw, it was decided to strengthen the military presence in the countries of Eastern Europe bordering Russia, as a result of which we witnessed large-scale military exercises, the deployment of battle units in the Baltic countries, Romania, Poland, of The Bulgarian side sent and continues to send conflicting signals to its allies. During the previous government Borisov 2, the President, the Foreign Minister and the Prime Minister opposed the position of the then Minister of Defence Mr. Nenchev for establishing an allied fleet together with Romania and Turkey, although it is clear to us all that such a position cannot be defended by a minister without the sanction of a joint decision of the executive. In the labyrinth of these conflicting signals, the new government has not yet come up with an opinion on this issue, and we know that NATO is an organisation that insists on implementing its decisions because it is taken by consensus from all sides. The Bulgarian government not only has not addressed this issue, but it has not informed the Forty-fourth National Assembly and the relevant committees of its position. Therefore, my question to the Minister of Defence is: does the current government have a clear solution, a clear position to implement NATO's decision on enhanced naval presence, and what option does this decision adhere to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Vitanov, quoting the case from the previous government, you know that Prime Minister Borisov then reacted sharply, I would even say extremely harshly to similar initiatives that were not the result of a decision of the then government. You know, including me at the time, as a representative of the National Assembly, I have asked this question. I think the issue of the case in the last parliament is clear. With regard to NATO's decision on an adaptive front presence in the Black Sea region, it reflects the priorities in our national position on the issue. They are focused on building strong collective defence and deterring, increasing security and balanced front presence of Alliance forces on the eastern flank and in the Black Sea region. This presence is not permanent, but is carried out periodically through participation in exercises and exercises. One of the other objectives is to create stability in NATO's periphery and deal with the refugee crisis. The enhanced and adaptable naval presence in the Black Sea is reduced to planned visits to ports and participation in joint exercises and trainings of ships from the Alliance's Permanent Navy and individual NATO members, on a voluntary basis and strictly respecting the restrictions laid down in the Montreux Convention. I stress the presence of foreign warships outside the Black Sea countries is based solely on the Montreux Agreement. All established measures adapted to the specifics of the Black Sea region are defensive, proportionate and in response to the highly changed security environment. NATO has never put on the agenda the issue of creating a joint fleet of Black Sea member states. Such an option is also not considered within the framework of the existing regional initiatives, which involve the three Union countries - Bulgaria, Romania and Turkey. NATO's adapted front presence in the Black Sea does not in any way contain a solution for such a national, multinational fleet from among the Black Sea countries of the Alliance. This also reflects our national position on this issue. I am convinced that the enhanced naval presence of NATO forces will contribute to an increase in collective response capabilities for crises, including a response where there is a need to cross illegal refugee flows through the Black Sea region's aquatory. I think I have thus answered your question about the creation of such a fleet of NATO member states directed against third countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u23	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. For a line, Mr. Vitanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I remember that, as Vice-President of the Defence Committee, you also opposed the idea of creating this common fleet, but in the reply, I would like to touch on another topic which is the subject of a debate at the meeting in Brussels, which is a natural continuation of the meeting, namely covering the financial criteria of Wales and separating 2% of the gross domestic defence product. This is absolutely in accordance with your intentions and program. I am curious how you see the realization of this programme, after just a few days ago Finance Minister Goranov announced that he does not intend to update the budget for this year and spend more money on the army, and during the next 3-year forecast period he does not intend to allocate a higher percentage of gross domestic product to increase defence capabilities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u26	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Vitanov, yesterday at a closed meeting of the Defence Committee, I reported in detail the meeting of the Heads of State of the Alliance on 25 May in Brussels. All I can say is that this is our commitment to talk about the two percent of gross domestic product. This is a commitment made in 2014 in Wales. I do not agree with your opinion that the Finance Minister is opposed to this. We have a commitment by the end of this year. This is a position taken by the Bulgarian government literally ten days before we participated in the meeting on 25 May in Brussels. There were two subjects. One is for two percent of the gross domestic product of the member states, and the second topic was for NATO's accession to the anti-terrorism coalition against ISIL. These were the two topics that were discussed. Yesterday, I reported to the Defence Committee about the talks that were held in this direction. I will inform you that ten days before this meeting, there was a position made by a joint task force, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Interior, the security services, the Presidency, the Foreign Ministry. This position was adopted by the Bulgarian government and presented by the President, who led the delegation on 25 May 2016. By the end of the year, the commitment we have as a government is to draw up a National plan with estimates for the period until 2024. When are we going to reach these two percent? I will inform you that some of the member states strongly raise the question that they spend more money on the Alliance and on defence than other member states do. This is a matter which is being discussed and will continue to be discussed until the general decision by Wales has been implemented since 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We move on to the last question from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov on the policy of the Ministry of Defence for restoration the work of the hospital for healing, long-term treatment and rehabilitation in Pomorie. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop the issue within two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, according to Council Decision No 996 of 17 November 2016 the right to manage the Hospital for Rehabilitation, Long-term Treatment and Rehabilitation in Pomorie, the so-called Military Sanatorium, was revoked by the Military Medical Academy of Sofia due to a lack of need for the Office and it was granted to the Ministry of Defence. By the same decision, the property was declared private municipal property and the right to ownership of it and the movable property of private state property were paid as a non-cash contribution to the capital of the Multiprofile Hospital for long-term treatment and rehabilitation. Since the beginning of February 2017, the Sanatorium has been closed and its employees over 70 people have been released from work. On 2 February, a message was published on the website of the Ministry of Defence, and I quote: "The Ministry of Defence's leadership firmly declares that it will not allow the sale of the property and will preserve the purpose of the medical establishment. None of the dismissed civilian employees who wish to work will be left out of work. Three and a half months later this hasn't happened yet. Sanitarium base is unsupported and closed. In view of the above facts, my question is: what will be the policy of the Ministry of Defence to restore the work of the Hospital for Rehabilitation, Prolonged Treatment and Rehabilitation in Pomorie and what deadlines will you possibly engage in for its opening and continuing work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. For an answer, Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov. Please answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u30	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Boychev, in implementation of Decision of the Council of Ministers, you mentioned the number of the Council of Ministers No 996 of 17 November 2016, the following activities have been carried out in force since 2 February 2017: - acceptance of the property was carried out by the Ministry of Defence, which is kept in the balance of the office; - an expert assessment of fixed tangible assets, real estate and movable property subject to the decision has been adopted; - A private state property act No 7911 of 10 May 2017 was issued by the district governor of Burgas; - documents have been submitted to the Municipality of Pomorie to issue a tax assessment of the property under the new act; - in the office of Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre in the city of Burgas is submitted a request for a sketch to reflect the new act of private state property. After the completion of all the documentation, a protocol will be drawn up by me in my capacity as managing the rights of the state as sole owner of the capital of the Multiprofile Hospital for curing, long-term treatment and rehabilitation of the city of Velingrad for an increase in capital with a non-profit contribution. The manager of the Multi-Profil Hospital for Rehabilitation, Treatment and Rehabilitation will submit the required documents to the Commercial Register with the Agency for Entrys for Capital Increase. Only after this increase will it be possible for the Sanatorium in the town of Pomorie to start its organizational activities, including with the preservation of the staff who worked there. With regard to the Ministry of Defence's commitment to restore the work of the Sanatorium Hospital in the town of Pomorie, you should bear in mind that some of the procedures are directly dependent on the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. This was, by the way, a question which was one of the most urgent ones, which was raised with the appointment of the Deputy Ministers. One of the deputy ministers called the manager of Vita and the truth is that the funds we have to carry out the repairs are insufficient and we are looking for an option where the hospital is actually working to cover the salaries of the people involved there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Mr. Boychev for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u32	Thank you for your answer, Minister. I see that you are seriously committed to this case, but you understand that it is quite disturbing that these 70 people have been released and I guess they have already found another job, possibly. You know how important it is that qualified personnel stay to work where they have worked for many years. There is one more thing, which, by my information, personally concerns me that when the Military Sanatorium passes into the Multiprofile Hospital.Vita "Vita" Ltd., Velingrad loses the right to work on the paths of the NSI, and this was one of the main opportunities for the activity and financing of this medical establishment. That's also quite disturbing. If he can't work on the NSI, how will he perform in full? Thank you for your answer. I hope we can restore the hospital's activities as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. For the doppelganger, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister? [[Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov does not want to use the back.]] Thank you for the participation of Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov. For a declaration on behalf of a group of United Patriarchs, Mr. Mihov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u34	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Vice-President of the Council of Ministers and Minister of Defence! Declaration on the occasion of 2 June "Botev Day": He is alive and can briefly express everything we are about to say today. The beginning line of the published in 1873 in the newspaper "Independence" takes over "Hadji Dimitar" is part of what we understand under the poetic heritage of Hristo Botev. The double affirmative form of the message is a poetic denial of death and in the context of the historical age refers to the legendary feat of the reading of Hadji Dimitar and Stefan Karadzha in 1868. A feat which the author himself will repeat three years later, turning his own poetry into a life prophecy. The Earthlife of Hristo Botyov Petkov began at the Nativity.. 25 December 1847 at the home of Teacher Botyo Petkov and Ivanka Boteva in the town of Kalofer and ended on 20 May 1876 at the peak of the House in Stara Planina. Between these two dates, the Earth life of the poet is locked, which is measured at 28 years 4 months and 25 days. Often we forget that Botev leaves this world at one age, which is defined more as youthful and in no case corresponds to the monumental presence of the hero in the life of the Bulgarians to the present day. Raised, educated and raised under the shadow of the great Bulgarian Revival Actor Daskal Botyo Petkov young Hristo left the native Kalofer in 1863 to continue his education at the Second Odessa High School, only 16 years old. His departure to Odessa is the beginning of an independent biography that will only be saturated within 13 years with poetic, literary, social and revolutionary events that have completed a legendary feat without an analogue in history. In the short years of his journey among the living, the author of "Hadji Dimitar" will visit, reside and live in different places that today sound very different and distant. Its vital trajectory can be geographically outlined by Kalofer and Karlovo through Odessa, the village of Zadunaevka, Besarabia, Bucharest, Braila, Alexandria, Izmail, Galatz, Guergevo to the Vratsa Balkan. Today, these names are found in four countries - Bulgaria, Romania, Moldova and Ukraine - and we can hardly imagine the free movement of a young man who is a medical student, teacher, printer, publicist, publisher, poet and revolutionary. This modern concept of Botev's space is very different from historical reality. In fact, wherever he travels, he is always among Bulgarians and is part of the Bulgarian cultural, political and revolutionary society. From the abandoned windmill in the outskirts of Bucharest, where he shares hunger and cold with the Apostle of Liberty, through the Bulgarian schools in Zadunaevka, Ismail and Bucharest, the printing company of Lyuben Karavelov, the Bulgarian book company, Botev works and lives with a large part of the Bulgarian spiritual elite of the 19th century. In its life orbit gravitates names such as Vasil Levski, Luben Karavelov, Stefan Stambolov, Hadzhi Dimitar, Stefan Karadzha, Zhelyo Voyvoda, Georgi Strandski, Dobri Voynikov, Hristo Georgiev. The brief life of the poet is often compared to the passage of a comet into the dark sky, a brief glitter, quickly disappeared into the darkness, but left an unforgettable memory with the greatness and beauty of its view. This poetic metaphor has its basis because its contemporaries and their heirs keep discovering again and again the living Botev to this day. In the whirlpool of Bulgarian history the revolutionary poet is the subject of a continuous struggle for possession, for sewing his face to one or another party flag, for making the memory a sacred symbol giving historical legitimacy to the winners in the battle for the Botevo name. Obssession is actually a contribution of the dead in the ranks of the living, but only part of the living. Botev is ours, conveys the suggestion that he is alive and walking in the ranks determined by the political doctrine under the light flag of the party. This ideologically modeled reading about the memory of the hero reaches its apogee in the years of totalitarian regime, when from scientific publications to mass propaganda Botev is assigned no less, no more to the forerunners of scientific socialism in Bulgaria. One of the most remarkable criticisms of the communist narrative about the hero came out of the remarkable pen of the writer- dissident Georgi Markov. On June 2, 1976, exactly 41 years ago, Markov wrote his remarkable letter to Hristo Botev. The chosen form of the work, which can be described as a fictional essay, is the letter to the dead, with whom one can talk, argue, and even teach as living. Markov's main question to Botev is: Don't you feel guilty? Didn't you think you should have tried to stay alive and run away from the bullet you were waiting for on Vratsa? Don't you think you should have refused to supply the sons of Loyola and the brothers of Judah with such an important and useful legend about Hristo Botev, says Markov? This is the question of the life and sacrifice of the hero who creates a legend convenient to the heirs as a cover for their own sins. Mark emotionally exclaims: "For once again let me repeat: "Those who bow before your halo will not let anyone who reminds them a little of you live. And now, the bullet that pierced your forehead continues to squeal in its vicious flight for 100 years and to pierce many other foreheads and end the quote. Writing these lines Georgi Markov cannot know that he has two more years, three months and nine days to live, and that his words, like Botev, will become a prophecy of his own destiny. The bullet, technology and details in his case are a little different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u35	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. We continue with parliamentary control. Asking the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Dimova Savateva about the responsibility of the Ministry of Interior for securing the summer tourist season. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u36	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! As representatives of the Black Sea region, in particular of the Burgas multi-media region, where much of the economy is related to the tourism industry, which in recent years has had a very serious growth as part of the country's gross domestic product, a priority for us is to preserve this growth and ensure the calmness of the tourists who have visited us in order to have a prerequisite for them to return to our country. Every summer, a large part of the criminal contingent, we are the attraction center of this criminal contingent as from the inside of the country, there are already cases of international criminally registered criminals who commit crimes on the territory of the tourist complexes, on the territory of the Black Sea cities, we are very attractive due to the specifics of our region. My question to you is: what is the readiness of the structures of the Ministry of Interior for the upcoming summer tourist season? Are you planning changes in the model of work of the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior on the Black Sea to have more effective opposition to both street and organised crime? Is the posting of police officers from the inside of the country an efficient enough way to strengthen the composition and secure the season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. For an answer the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Radev. Here you are, Mr. Radev, for your answer, five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u38	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Savateva, Mr. Boychev, in recent years during the summer tourist season, a well-established working model for work in the three district departments of the Black Sea coast was established. At present, there has been established an organization for the work of police authorities to continue on this model, because these are good practices that help to maintain a high level of public order in our resort settlements. We have a plan for the activities of the Ministry of Interior for Public Order Protection, Crime Counteraction and Fire Safety in Resort Complexes and Tourist Areas during the summer and winter season of 2017 and 2018. We will continue working with the Interdepartmental Coordination Centre, which includes representatives of the National Revenue Agency and other structures for the control of illegal trade and major counteractions of excise goods smuggling. I will post a total of 946 civil servants with exactly 80 more than last year, with police powers, including security police officers. Of them are 785 employees in support of the Regional Directorate of Burgas, in support of the Regional Directorate of Varna, 111, and in support of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. We will continue the practice of joint duties with police officers from the Member States of the European Union, and the focus, the main in their work, will be the security of foreign tourists. Official invitations were made to the Romanian, Czech and Polish police, such as the Regional Directorate of Varna, had an idea this year to invite police officers from the Federal Republic of Germany to attend. To facilitate citizens, we will propose the use of special, type forms of paperwork, in fact, we will continue this practice, for acceptance and submission of reports of crime. The blanks facilitate both the citizens and the activities of police officers in accepting signals of crimes committed, theft, robbery, bodily injury, fraud, hooliganism, crash and so on. The sheets are translated into German, French, English, including Russian, and are located on the website of the Directorate General of the National Police and can also be enjoyed by the citizens. In the event of a crime committed against foreign nationals and during this summer season an organization has been established to implement a relaxed procedure. You know this problem, for issuing certification documents. An organization has been established in the Directorate-General for National Police for the implementation of a number of preventive security and operational search activities. I will list some of them: for example informational provision of foreign tourists, you know the problem of language communication, translators are being appointed; unobtrusive and rapid access to representatives of consular services and foreign police attachés to the respective regional governments where foreign nationals are potentially detained; carrying out targeted control over the activities of private security companies and self-guarding units on the effectiveness carried out by their security services; you know that this is also a problem, along with that we share information with them about individuals who are prone to committing crimes of a common nature. An organisation has been established in the Directorate-General for Border Police to ensure normal crossing power and to carry out effective border checks on persons passing through and means of transport. The masters of the crossings shall hold regional meetings to coordinate actions with the other services of mandatory border control to prevent and delay passengers after border inspection. The Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior shall organise a daily exchange of information and, where necessary, the relevant search events and activities shall be conducted, permanent contact shall be maintained with the competent neighbouring border services to obtain timely information in the event of an increase or a sharp change in the airport in order to open additional border checks routes. In view of the complicated international situation at the Border Police Station at Varna, Burgas Airport and Sofia Airport, there is established an organization to secure activities in the prevention of terrorist acts and disorder of public order. The information exchange between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Directorate-General for Border Police is strengthened, on the one hand, and travel agencies and drivers, on the other, in order to obtain preventive prior information about arriving and departing passengers from risky destinations and nationalities as well. To increase the security of the areas located around the sea stations of Varna, Nessebar, you must be interested, Burgas, before arrival, during the stay of cruise ships a very good practice is carried out physical examination of all motor vehicles around them. Finally, dear Mrs. Sawateva and Mr. Boychev, I assure you that if necessary we are ready to deploy additional employees and equipment to ensure public order on the Black Sea to effectively oppose both street and organised crime, which you specifically ask in your question. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u39	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, Mrs. Sawateva, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u40	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! I would like to ask Minister Radev: Does he foresee structural changes in the regional departments in the areas of the sea, I mean Burgas, Varna and Dobrich, and in particular does he foresee the restoration of the deputy directorate in the district directorate in Burgas? Burgas was one of the directorates in which this place was shortened, and it is one of the busiest. Does it, of course, provide for other structural changes? Another question in the same logical series: at the moment, what is the personnel deficit in the Ministry, both in maritime departments and elsewhere, and how does Minister Radev intend to solve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u41	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. For an answer, Mr. Radev, the Minister of Interior. You have three minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Savateva, structural changes I have the opportunity to announce that before we make structural changes, a functional and structural model, we will check again all the structures of the Ministry of Interior are working well, are there duplication of functions and so on. This is coming. And today, by the way, I have a meeting with the university team that will probably take up this task. Once we do this, then we can talk about some structures changes. You are also asking about another important question for the Deputy Directors. This was changed and were released during the caretaker government. Let me say this: it is probably fair for most departments, but not for the big ones Sofia, Varna, Plovdiv, Burgas, I have no idea where Maybe that's where it makes sense to leave such a deputy director, so the professional leadership tells me. In addition to a function of this functional-structural model that will be made, it will be reconsidered what the practice has been, if there is a need, will be asked all those involved in this process, especially those involved in it. For the personnel deficit, yes, there were currently 4100 of the total in the Ministry of Interior 49 thousand 830 that is the number per state. 46,000 people are busy, and a little bit of.. told me not to say exact numbers because they change all the time. Four thousand and a hundred was not the deficit, if you subtract these two numbers that I'm telling you, if you subtract one from the other, you're going to get some such number over 4000. I'm told they've already become smaller because there are competitions going on and they're winning some of them. The competitions are about 600, so hopefully we can get 300 candidates, so that's not the formula. Compared to the other power ministries, I think I'll allow myself this comparison, an incompletion of up to 10% is acceptable, it's even healing, there's some kind of competition. Whether this is exactly how it is to be checked. I am pleased and satisfied, and I will end by saying that there are still enough willing, despite the insufficient level of those who want to work in the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u43	Thank you, dear Minister. For your treatment please, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u44	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! All of us who work here, and especially the people's representatives from areas that have an outlet at sea, are aware of the complexity of the situation in the seaside resorts. These are small settlements for most of the year, which in a few months are growing immensely. Sunny beach, which is empty in winter, becomes one of the largest Bulgarian cities and undoubtedly in summer is the most criminogenic zone. Naturally, the Ministry of Interior and its local structures are primarily responsible for the organisation and the protection of public order, but we need to be frank only to the Ministry cannot be relied on not because there is not enough resources, but because the protection of public order in the Black Sea areas and, above all, where a large part of the national gross product is formed and the revenues in the summer at all, this must be a commitment of all institutions. I am optimistic that the organization in season 2017 will be as well done as possible, first because Minister Radev and the Ministry's leadership gave a sign in this direction. In the first days of their appointment the minister and part of his team visited Burgas region, met with the people who work on the ground, got acquainted with the situation, but the more important sign is that this visit was not isolated, it was in sync with the prosecution. We realize how important it is for the Ministry of Interior to work in sync with the prosecution. When we talk about the safety of the summer season [[the President signals that time has run out]] We must also realize that this is a time when business should be left to work in peace. I hope the stocks that are coming don't stop business from working well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u45	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. I thank the Interior Minister Mr. Valentin Radev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. The first question is from the MP Georgi Yanchev Gokov about the minimum wage for the country, a difference in the positions of the participants in the social dialogue. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, two minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u46	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, my question to you is about the minimum wage for the country, not so much about its size as the way it is determined. At your initiative, which is commendable, an attempt was made to renew the dialogue and consultations between the social partners on the issue of the minimum wage for the country. You expressed your expectations that this would lead to a clear mechanism for determining the amount of this minimum wage, but to put it mildly, it did not work out because there was a total gap in the positions of the participants in this social dialogue. On the one hand, employers want the minimum wage for the country to be dropped, to be abolished, on the other hand, trade unions want to keep it and it to be about 50 - 60% of the average wage for the country. From a third party, the government has no vision for the development of the dispute and bends between trade unions, to please all employers and to keep its election fairy tales and promises for the minimum wage. In the end, he clearly does not intend to recognise the position of his own Minister of Labour and Social Policy, who wishes to build a mechanism for its determination, nor of business and trade unions, and, according to announced intentions, the minimum wage will continue to be determined administratively and on the basis of election promises. The problem is that it remains completely unclear how and why these dimensions are chosen, and not other.. there are no analyses, there is no vision, there is no logic, there is no mechanism, there is still the feeling of a blind choice. Diverse signals on such an important issue for our society as income and their increase are not a good start for a single government. All that I have said brings questions: how does the position stated by you and your Ministry for drawing up dialogue with the social partners of a mechanism for determining minimum wage based on objective indicators fit and relate to the macroeconomic forecast of the cabinet and the arbitrary steps contained in it to increase and end purpose? What is your vision for the minimum wage? Will there be one for the country and will you give in to employers' demands? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Will meaningful analyses and estimates of the macroeconomic forecast increase of the minimum wage, as well as an assessment of the impact of this increase be presented? How will the minimum wage eventually grow in time during the years of this cabinet's management? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u47	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for an answer. Here you go, Mr. Petkov. You have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u48	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mr. Gokov, Dear Minister! The estimated figures in the 2018 medium-term budget forecast for the minimum wage amount reflect the government's stated priority for a sustainable increase in the standard of living in Bulgaria. The mechanism for determining the minimum wage must be drawn up after consulting the social partners and in line with the recommendations of the Council of the European Union for which Bulgaria has been the subject of monitoring by the European Commission. Over the years, there have been repeated attempts to set a mechanism for negotiating the minimum wage, but differences between the parties have never led to a concrete result. On 22 May this year, the European Commission published again a proposal for a recommendation of the Council of the European Union to Bulgaria, which reads: "In consultation with the social partners to establish a transparent mechanism for determining the minimum wage. In this regard, at the end of June, I will propose that the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation discuss future actions on minimum wage issues, and I will insist on discussing the overall package of concrete measures in the area of income and living level. The minimum wage is a basic standard in income policy established at European level, with partnership and dialogue with social partners being the way to agree on the vision of its future development. As is known, the medium-term budget forecast for the period 2018 - 2020 from 1 January 2018 provides for an increase in the minimum wage from 460 to 510 BGN. From 1 January 2019 "of 560 BGN" From 1 January 2020 610 leva. Thus, the proposed time schedule for increasing the minimum wage should be consistent with a mechanism for its determination agreed with the social partners, which is in line with the recommendation of the Council of the European Union. I would like to stress that the estimated minimum wage amounts are in line with the forecast data for the main macroeconomic indicators of the spring macroeconomic forecast of the Ministry of Finance from April 2017, for the period 2017 - 2020, based on the real growth of gross domestic product, the increase in compensation of one employed, and the average annual inflation. Since 2016, as is known, amendments to the Law on Regulatory Acts have introduced a requirement to carry out a mandatory impact assessment, which is why any updating of the minimum wage is necessarily accompanied by such an assessment. In this regard, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has ordered analyses from international organizations of labour and from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences on various aspects related to the state and trends in income levels with elements of evaluation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u49	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u50	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! Mr. Minister, I have no doubt about your desire to draw up such a mechanism, and I wish you sense, to take the right position in the country, in the sense, in the disputes between trade unions and employers and I wish you the strength to fight in the government for a working decision to determine the minimum wage, and not some, I say, administrative determination. Moreover, you mentioned the recommendations, I will read you the Council's recommendation on the National Reform Programme of Bulgaria 2016 and the Council's opinion on Bulgaria's convergence programme for 2016 and I will read it not so much for you because you know very well what this is about, I will read about the Members of Parliament and the people who listen to us. There at the ninth point: "Although the minimum wage in Bulgaria is still the lowest in the European Union, it has increased significantly since 2011, as the lack of objective criteria and for determining the minimum wage creates uncertainty. Despite the efforts of the government and the social partners in this area, Bulgaria still does not have clear guidelines or transparent criteria for determining the minimum wage to take into account its impact on job creation, social conditions and competitiveness. I am pleased that you say that your priority and the government is the sustainable increase in the minimum wage. I again wish you, as soon as possible, to have a working mechanism, to determine the salary, so that we do not witness bargaining between trade unions and employers, and the unfavorable role of the government and you as a social minister, as an arbitrator in this dispute. If there is no such mechanism within 5 months, I will ask you again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u51	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. A hole? I won't. We move on to the second question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Petkov. The issue is from MP Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov on control of respect for safe and healthy working conditions in the country of Stomana. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! On 18 May 2017, two workers were seriously injured in an explosion in the steel chamber. One with over 70% burns died a few days later, and the other with over 30% burns, and is currently in hospital. In a conversation with representatives of one of the trade unions and workers in the enterprise we were told that for years people have been working under poor working conditions, repeatedly signals have been reported in the Regional Labour Inspection in Pernik, but so far the situation remains unchanged. Dear Minister, overall control of compliance with the Law on Health and Safety at Work exercises the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The overall control of compliance with labour law in all sectors and activities is carried out by the Executive Agency "Head Labour Inspection" of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, whose structure is also the Directorate in Pernik. In this regard, my question to you is: what control has been carried out by the Directorate of Labour Inspectorate "Pernik" for the last four years?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for an answer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Vladimirov, Mr. Minister! The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, through the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Labour, exercises regular control over the respect of safe and healthy working conditions in the Ministry of Labour, according to the established procedure of the inspection for carrying out periodic control in risk enterprises and activities. This control shall be carried out annually by separating sufficient time and human resources, depending on the specifics of the inspected object. After the expiry of the prescribed periods, subsequent monitoring of their implementation shall be carried out. In addition to checks on previous controls, they are also carried out on signals from workers and trade unions. From 2013 until now, labour inspectors have carried out 16 inspections in the quoted enterprise. As a result, 79 violations have been detected, of which 69 concern health and safety at work. In a timely manner, forced administrative measures have been applied and in two cases the employer has been sanctioned. In the course of the checks, consultations were given on compliance with labour law, some of the infringements found were resolved during the checks themselves. The most common violations found at workplaces and when reviewing documents presented by the employer are: health and safety violations of workers, namely abnormal dust values, noise and adverse microclimate in certain workshops, secondary dust sources of pollution of the working environment in certain production workshops, low efficiency of existing ventilation installations and the lack of them at certain jobs that do not comply with the regulatory requirements of certain jobs. The second group of disorders are related to electrical safety at work. The third group of non-safed sites, most often when performing repair work. Lack of written arrangements to ensure health, safety of work for mutual information on the risks of work carried out by employees of the company and working by other undertakings engaged in activities on the territory of the establishment, infringement of working hours, including the use of overtime by workers with reduced working hours. As a result of the control activity of the labour inspection, a number of improvements and investments have been made in the enterprise. Collective remedies are provided to protect against metal sprays in certain areas, as well as to reduce exposure to noise, dust, chemical agents and to improve the micro-climate in the working environment. The obsolete electrical panels are replaced with new ones, which are of a high degree of safety. The sanitary rooms for workers and employees have been reconstructed and upgraded, and the feeding rooms have been renovated. The windows on the roof and the funnels of some production rooms have been replaced. The measures taken to reduce vibrations when handling taps and improve illumination in certain production areas. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, through the Executive Agency, will continue to exercise control both in this enterprise and for all others, with the imposition of forced administrative measures and penalties provided for in the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u55	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u56	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, in your reply you answered quite thoroughly that in the "Stomanana" Pernik, after the many checks you have done, 79 violations have been detected, twice you have sanctioned the enterprise and the most frequent violations are directed precisely at the lack of good working conditions by those working in the "Stomana." Although you have sanctioned them, I am constantly receiving them and other colleagues that in the enterprise this, as you have been assured by the owners of the steel company, Pernik, these investments are not enough to actually have normal working conditions. You have recently become a minister, I do not want to blame you, but I hope with the assurance that you have said in your reply that you will actually impose much more serious control over the safety of work. I hope that very soon you will come to Pernik and we will visit, if you wish, together "Stomanana" "Pernik," to make sure that much more investments are actually needed by the owners of the enterprise in order to have normal, safe working conditions in the enterprise.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u57	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. For the doppelganger? No. We should thank the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to a question for the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva. Asked by MP Krum Kostadinov Zarkov about Bulgaria's progress under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, three minutes to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Vice Prime Minister! On 21 January this year, the report of the European Commission on Bulgaria's progress on the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, which makes recommendations to Bulgaria for removing weaknesses in the judiciary, the fight against corruption and organised crime, was announced. Ten years our country has failed to meet the Commission's requirements, which, frankly, increasingly wondered how to combine its diplomatic statement of progress and political will with the obvious lack of results and continuous scandals. In any event, at the end of February this year, the government approved an action plan for 2017 to implement the recommendations of the Report. In this order of thought, I ask you to answer how the implementation of the measures set out in the plan is going, including those relating to the preparation and discussion of a Report on the implementation of the updated strategy for continuing the reform of the Judicial System. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u59	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. For an answer, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister for Foreign Affairs Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva. Here you are, Madam Secretary. You have five minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u60	Good afternoon, Madam President, dear Mr. Zarkov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As you rightly pointed out, Mr. Zarkov, this Mechanism has been going on for 10 years and this year a ten-year report has been released. In this 10-year report, there were several things that happened for the first time, and I am glad that the European Commission finally responded to the calls that we made to them throughout the year for the specific in the recommendations regarding the indicators that it measured. For the first time we have 17 very specific recommendations on each of the indicators. A clear commitment to implement all 17 recommendations by the end of this Commission's term of office by the end of 2018. This 10-year report analyzes all ten years. And you are right, yes, unfortunately, it is mentioned positively as progress only four of them in 2012, when the organ was created for the seizure of property acquired from criminal activity and when the specialized court and prosecutor's office were created, with competence in relation to organised crime. Also 2015, when the updated judicial reform strategy of the previous parliament and 2016 was adopted, when, in fact, intensive implementation of the updated strategy measures began. Of course, there are still a lot of things to do, as you mentioned, and this is mentioned in these 17 specific recommendations, again, for the first time. A plan has indeed been adopted in accordance with the implementation of the measures, and at the moment the report came out, as you mentioned on the 21st, and the next day I issued an order, I was still a Minister of Justice, in which I gave myself a two-week period to draw up a report that would take into account the implementation of the updated strategy of the judicial reform, this is one of the recommendations. It is not a one-time report, and it is a constant reporting and awareness of the measures under the updated strategy, i.e. the frequency of this reporting and publicity of measures by all institutions. I stress that there are recommendations to all institutions in the updated strategy. These are not only the government, there are quite a lot of recommendations aimed at the judiciary itself, but at other bodies besides the Ministry of Justice. According to this order, a report was prepared which was discussed and adopted at the Judicial Reform Council on 14 March this year. I stress that not only has a formal report been prepared, but this report is discussed with all the stakeholders and is thus also given publicity. Also thanks to the efforts we made in really 2016 a large part of the strategy measures have already been implemented. The amendments to the Judicial Law, which was adopted by the last parliament, created the legal prerequisites for implementing some of the Commission's recommendations on the mechanism, which enabled some of these measures to be taken into account immediately as implemented, that is to say, in the 10-year report itself. They are, of course, related to the magistrates' competitions, to career developments in the judicial authorities, to facilitate the work of the inspectorate, through access to the system of all technical things that anyone, since this report and report is public, could get acquainted with. Once again in implementation of the 2016 strategy, we have developed, conducted and submitted more than 20 project proposals under the Operational Programme "Good Governance" which are related to fast and effective justice related to the so-called "power justice" as part of the electronic governance of the Republic of Bulgaria. Also, one of the important recommendations is an amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. He was ready, you know, going through a long public discussion because a criminal procedural code is still not good to change from today to tomorrow, since August there have been debates in the professional community. It has already been submitted to the Council of Ministers and I will propose its adoption to the National Assembly as early as next week. However, a very important part of these recommendations, one of the 80 recommendations, is also the so-called Prosecution Board, which was held at the request of the Bulgarian government and the Bulgarian Prosecutor's Office last year. As Minister of Justice, I had issued an order on 15 March for interested parties to prepare proposals for this analysis. Unfortunately, during the service cabinet, indeed the working group had de facto met only once and on March 14th one day before the deadline for this order expired, but, anyway, the Ministry of Justice resumed its work and in a short time will provide a report on the prosecution's analysis. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] To conclude, I would like to assure you of our consistent will to implement these recommendations, not because of the annual reports we receive, but because of the Bulgarian citizens. And my appeal to all parliamentary political parties is that this is one of the policies on which it is good, whether we are in government or in opposition, to reach an agreement, to unite. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u61	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister. For specifying two questions please come in, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister, for your comprehensive response. I understand that it is difficult to talk about 17 measures, recommendations within 5 minutes and I am sure that this conversation will continue. I will therefore focus on my further question on one of these measures and recommendations, because the report states that one of the most important tests in 2017 will be the election of members of a new Supreme Judicial Council of both those elected by the judiciary and those elected by parliament. And the recommendation is to ensure a transparent choice. In parliament this week, procedural rules on the terms and conditions in which we will choose the parliamentary quota of the Supreme Judicial Council were adopted. In this sense, the process is just beginning here, but the process of choosing the professional quota is already under way. It is ongoing, accompanied by arguments and heavy accusations that do not help the innovations which were foreseen in the latest amendments to the Law, namely a new way of choosing... direct choice and possibility of electronic remote voting. This would be, perhaps, the main marker for the implementation of this cooperation and verification mechanism, and for the irreversibility of reforms, the choice of the Supreme Judicial Council and the subsequent election of a new chairman of the Supreme Administrative Court. For this year, this is the most serious challenge, not to underestimate others. In this context, my additional question is: Are you able to.. in the sense of whether you have the necessary tools and political will and support, to declare yourself a guarantor for the conduct of an honest and free choice of new members of the new Supreme Judicial Council?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u63	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u64	You're right, Mr. Zarkov, in 5 minutes we can't go into detail all 17 recommendations, especially that they have recommendations. Yes, this is one of the most important tests for the system, I agree with you completely. I myself made it public several times in my interviews. Yes, they welcome the Bulgarian citizens, and we, the Law on the Judiciary, but now we need to see how they will be implemented in practice. For this reason, this will be one of the tests not only to the judiciary, but also to the MPs, to the parliament, and to each of the political parties in parliament, because the Supreme Judicial Council is formed by 2 institutions and the judiciary itself with a direct choice for the first time, these are majority elections in the judiciary itself. Every judge and every prosecutor and every investigator with their vote shall elect the people who will represent him in the Supreme Judicial Council and shall defend the interests, independence and impartiality of the judicial system. The second quota is from the National Assembly. This quota is the so-called "Public quota'; it is not political. And I would like to all of us, when we talk about a parliamentary quota, to talk more about the public quota, about the public quota. The National Assembly, like each of the MPs, elected directly in elections, with the way it voted, with the way it nominated, because for the first time will be elected by two thirds majority, for the first time, I stress, is personally responsible for what people it sends to the Supreme Judicial Council. In this regard, there is no way, not that I would not, on the contrary, call them constantly, to calm down passions, not to question this choice, especially when the electronic system was adopted unanimously in the Supreme Judicial Council, repeated discussions were made on it. I myself needed questions, that they convinced me as a minister then that it would work well, that in this way the secret of the vote was protected, that in this way free will was protected, and when all members of the Supreme Judicial Council stood by their names and with the system developers and testing that the system was secure, it certainly helped us. Moreover, for us to have the conviction and not to demote judges and prosecutors to vote, because the most important thing in this choice is the maximum wide participation of judges, prosecutors and investigators, the maximum number of them not to be demotivated, but to vote, whether they choose the paper, because such an opportunity is also ensured by law, whether they choose the electronic remote vote. So really, if there are any doubts, it is the work of the Supreme Judicial Council, to test the system once again, there is time, and to do so. But, anyway, the system was discussed more than six months last year. There were two meetings of the Supreme Judicial Council on this issue, one of which with the invitation of developers to explain what guarantees, security measures have been put into this system. So any minister or deputy prime minister, a member of the government, cannot be a guarantor when this choice is formed by the judiciary and by the National Assembly. Of course I follow carefully, but I have neither the right to interfere nor the authority nor the right to have any member of the Council of Ministers interfere with the bodies which will de facto form the Supreme Judicial Council. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] But my call is also to you and to the judiciary itself: let's really show that the rules work not only on paper and the way we will form the Supreme Judicial Council, to give the system a chance to better manage the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u65	Thank you, Deputy Prime Minister. For attitude, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u66	Dear Deputy Prime Minister, we understand that you cannot intervene and influence the way in which this choice is made, but your position as Vice-President who is responsible for these matters and, at the same time, a foreign minister who will explain what is happening to the European Commission and other observers, we would like it to be clear enough, public enough, and we, as far as it depends on us, will comply and work for quality members and a qualitative debate on the election of the parliamentary quota. But what's happening in professional quotas at the moment can't just leave us idle. We politicians shouldn't interfere there. This is independent power, but the debate is public, the debate is public. A lot of people are involved in it, and we're kind of hiding as if to name things by their real names. And the real names are that the last choice for the Supreme Judicial Council was also very public, there were also many hearings, and there were all sorts of procedures. After all, the people who ended up there were incapable of gaining power and talking to each other. And if we reproduce it one more time, nothing good awaits us. And once again I will agree with you: this is not about a mechanism, it is not about monitoring, it is about the need of Bulgarian citizens for justice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u67	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. We should thank the Deputy Prime Minister for the Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Mrs Ekaterina Zaharieva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Health Nikolai Petrov. Question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov about the financial condition of the Hospital "Shumen" AD. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u68	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The current issue is dictated by the ongoing reforms, at least on my observations, and by conversations with medics and citizens, in the management of the Multiprofile Hospital, which has had a new director for two years. I have received written answers to some of my questions, but still, Mr. Minister, I would like you to tell the public what is your view of the financial situation and what is happening in Novi Pazar. There a year ago, the activity as a self-employed medical facility was terminated, respectively the functions were transferred to the Shumen Hospital. I had a visit from doctors working there who expressed concern that major activities in Novi Pazar would be closed. Has this happened, is there any danger of closure of basic activities, mainly talking about the Surgery and then about the Active Treatment Department? In general, what is your vision for improving the health condition? After all, the main victims are the citizens, because this health service that they need to receive must be at the necessary level, respectively, and the medics who work there must feel at ease and be able to normally fulfil their obligations to the citizens, as this hospital covers to a large extent the treatment of the citizen of other areas, not only of the Shumen region. I asked that question to the minister of the service, but he couldn't answer. However, you, as the owner, should have made your assessment. I will then comment in my reply on these written answers that I have received from you on topics which also concern this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For an answer the Minister of Health Prof. Nikolai Petrov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, according to the Annual Financial Report presented by the Ministry of Health and the 2016 Activity Report of the hospital in Shumen, which is certified by an independent registered auditor, a negative financial result is recorded, a loss of 1 million. 540,000. lv. In comparison with the current loss recorded in 2015 of 610 thousand. lv. It is apparent that the loss rate increased by 930 thousand. lv. The total financial result as of 31.12.2016 is negative, namely a loss of 2 million. Two hundred and forty-seven As of 31 December, the hospital's capital in Shumen amounted to 6 million. 900,000. lv. When excessive losses are made, it is apparent that the company's own capital is at the rate of 5 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. I won't go into details, you've seen in the written reply the balance sheets regarding the company's advances and so on. I would just like to stress that staff and social security obligations in 2016 increased by 338 thousand. lv. compared to the previous year. In contrast to the previous reporting period as of the current year 2016, the existence of overdue liabilities to suppliers of 279 thousand has been reported. lv. Regarding your second sub-question concerning the activities of the medical establishment in Novi Pazar, I will report to you the following: In the hospital in Shumen, 36 medical specialties in 9 regulated activities are allowed. When the medical objective cannot be achieved, the conditions of extra-hospital care, maternity care, rehabilitation, dental, donor conditioning, dispensation shall be passed. At the established by the Executive Director at the time of issue of the operating permit Rules for the structure of the hospital in Shumen, it has a stationary block with 355 beds distributed in 18 compartments. The hospital in Novi Pazar has 66 beds, divided into 5 compartments. The permit to operate the two addresses relates to the unification of the activity by means of a lease contract concluded, according to which the company in the hospital.Shumen............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The establishment plan has also been updated in this regard by bringing together the establishment schedules of the relevant structures of the two hospitals that unite their activities. Clinical protocols for the organisation of the medical-diagnostic process, ensuring continuity and consistency in the provision of hospital care, advisory assistance and so on are described. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Unification aims to reduce administrative costs and optimize the activity. I'm starting to cancel, Madam President. This step was reached after a definite shortage of medical and financial resources for the existence of the hospital in Novi Pazar. For this reason, there is a letter from the director of the Shumen hospital to the Ministry of Health, in which he informs us that he is temporarily suspending the activities of the Second surgical unit and microbiology. Since I delayed the time, I just want to say that by 1 May 2017 at the Novi Pazar address in the Surgery Department four beds for active treatment and 2 beds for continued treatment were discovered. The staff is from two doctors on a basic contract of employment, several of them, and so on. If you'll excuse me, I'm graduating.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u71	Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u72	With regard to the Microbiology Laboratory in Novi Pazar, there are two doctors, one lab technician and one paramedic working there. All activity has been transferred to the hospital in Shumen. In this order of thought, there is no significant damage to health care for the population. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u73	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u74	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I think you described the painting quite eloquently at Shumen Hospital. It is impressive that all these losses we are talking about have been accumulated over the last two years when this hospital management takes place. Just to remind you that the current director is the former director of the hospital in Novi Pazar and as a result of activities that I do not want to qualify him, as a person I speak of, but should be checked out, the hospital went bankrupt and had to go to Shumen Hospital. The data you are quoting is extremely worrying, especially the fact that the hospital's capital is being reduced literally in some progression and staff duty as well. I would ask, Mr. Minister, however, that you do a really serious audit of this medical facility, that serious measures be taken for its recovery. Because in these answers that I have received from you, I am largely suggesting that they are given by the medical establishment itself. I can't agree with the fact that quality food is working. Even if you don't go, send a representative to see how at lunch the elevators are filled with people with cauldrons that carry up, because this food is not good. I am also responsible that for non-medical activities, fixed tangible assets, they are used for medical activities. This largely does not correspond to the truth, because one of the first actions of the current director when he was appointed is to buy BMW, X-5. This is precisely the cost of fixed tangible assets that are not directly related to medical activity. I am also very concerned about the fact that the Surgical Department in Novi Pazar is also closed because this hospital serves several municipalities. That is, this address already serves several municipalities, and it makes it extremely difficult for patients who need an emergency surgery to go to the Shumen Multiprofile Hospital. My appeal, and not only mine, but also all noisy citizens and those working in this hospital, is to actually find working mechanisms to make a serious check what is going on there to stop this vicious practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u75	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u76	Dear Mr. Ivanov, there is really some tension there. In this regard, I had yesterday a meeting with representatives of the trade union organizations of the CST and "Support" who presented an official signal of numerous irregularities according to them. I've committed myself, I'll do a background check. I'm hearing about the BMW now, not bad, not bad. We're back to normal. I can guarantee that I will restore normality. I met Dr. Atanasov myself, if I'm not mistaken, at the events in Hitrino. I was with the sick at the time. That was the first and last time I saw him. The numbers will finally determine our decision as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. We are going to ask the National Representative Georgi Yordanov about a strategy for the development of hospital care facilities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov. You have three minutes to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u78	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, dear Dr. Jaffer, because you are a medic, dear colleagues! In the last three years, we have witnessed the reduction in the payment of the volume of medical activity of hospitals, which is carried out by the Health Insurance Fund. According to my data, it exceeds 20%, and only since April 1st, when the new National Framework Treaty enters into force, it is between 5 and 10% for individual hospitals. The reduced financial revenues in hospitals lead to significant difficulties in fulfilling their basic duties, and these are the volume and quality of the medical assistance they provide to citizens. This is most powerful for the main university and district hospitals. My question in this regard is as follows: do you have a long-term strategy for providing the necessary hospital assistance to Bulgarian citizens under conditions threatened by bankruptcy procedures and forced to limit the volume of the hospital services carried out?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u79	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For an answer the Minister of Health Prof. Nikolai Petrov. You have five minutes to develop the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! As regards the Strategy for the Development of the Health System in the country, it is known that it is based on two strategic documents, namely the concept of restructuring hospital assistance approved by the Council of Ministers and the National Health Strategy 2020, adopted by decision of the National Assembly in 2015. One of the key policies of the National Health Strategy 2020 is the optimization of hospital care, so your question is completely legitimate. Specific measures and activities for the implementation of this policy are described in the action plan. In the implementation of the policy measures set out in this Strategy, the National Health Card was introduced to define and plan the needs of the population of accessible outpatient, hospital care according to age structure, morbidity and other health and demographic indicators. The Health Card is a mechanism for overcoming system imbalances and enables adequate resource planning based on analysis. Other implementation measures by 2020 laid down in the Strategy provide for the establishment of conditions for the development of highly specialised hospital centres; changes in the hospital control system; introduction of a system for payment of performance-based activities. It also provides for the conversion of beds for active treatment in beds for long-term treatment. Hospitals are defined in remote and difficult places. With regard to the financing of hospitals, it is known that the NHIF sets quarterly total values for each regional fund in the country, which means that hospitals are defined not quarterly indicative budgets, but quarterly totals. They are allocated by months with opportunities for flexibility between months and a 3% adjustment option. There is no limit in the pay by the NHIF in terms of activities dialysis, birth, intensive treatment, oncological and so on, not to mention them. All of this so far is the formal answer. However, I feel a little more specific in your question, and it concerns precisely the attitude of the so-called 'Limits' on medical institutions and the historical principle used in their determination. In this regard, the management of the Ministry of Health will open a point next Tuesday, with a request from the Ministry of Health to determine a new or adjusted old methodology for the allocation of hospital aid budgets to regional health care facilities and at regional health care facilities level. Yesterday at a Health Committee meeting, I used a word that I don't know if was noticed, namely that the historical principle in question over the years had a build-up. It is already beginning to acquire a less correct character and, in my opinion, it needs to step on something much more objective, which is the result of a consensus between the health service contractors, the staff, the Medical Union, trade unions, why not employers. This will lead to more transparency. In my opinion, this information should be public and can be seen at any moment. What is at stake in the National Health Card Strategy is very reasonable, but if it works in the sense that you and I imagine. It is a dynamic product that presents at any moment the state and volume of the activities of any hospital. You know that when a hospital is registered or entered into a contract with the NHIF, it presents a factual material, but it can be very different in just one month. I have a similar question further on about emigration and migration of health personnel. This is a very dynamic process, and only the people we have worked in the system are familiar with it in some ways. This cannot be excluded from the definition of budgets for hospitals when limits are set. We will rely exclusively on your support, ladies and gentlemen, to bring this National Health Card to an end, showing where each patient moves, what he receives as services and medicines. Then things will come out and there will be no doubt about how the system works. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u81	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yordanov for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u82	Madam President, honourable Members! Professor Petrov, this is exactly what you say if we did have a legal basis in place. You know that the main regulations that prejudge the activities of hospitals in Bulgaria are two: the National Health Card, which you said, and the medical standards. Unfortunately, both documents have been revoked by you, that is, we do not currently have a legal basis in force. I often joke, I hope I don't become very specific, that at the moment healthcare is regulated only by the Hippocratic oath. I put myself in your position when you are asked to open a new hospital and you do not have the regional health card on the basis of which to issue your permission, respectively refusal. When your experts carry out a check on hospitals in Bulgaria, they are based on medical standards, which are on the other hand based on contracts with the NHIF, and suddenly it turns out that these documents are gone. Therefore, my specific question is: how do you work under the conditions of canceled National Health Card and Medical Standards? My second question is very important and is related to what you just said. Yes, there is emigration in Bulgaria, but not only emigration of medical personnel, which determines their reduced number. The question I'm asking is for nurses. Honourable Professor. Petrov, honourable colleagues, the number of nurses in Bulgaria is 50% less than the number of nurses in the regulation. On top of that, their average age is 53 years old. They are at pre-retirement age, and a significant part of them work in retirement age, which shows that at any moment they can give up and actually give up and actually block the activities of hospitals, but not only hospitals in Bulgaria. My question to you is: how will the Ministry of Health and your team work to overcome this disproportion specifically for medical professionals, and specifically for nurses? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u83	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For an answer the Minister of Health Prof. Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u84	Dear Mr. Yordanov, with regard to medical standards, this is indeed the basis that lays down the rules for working in specialties in medicine and in general in health care. Most of us learn about it from the media, unless one is professionally interested in it. In the same way, I learned about the standard that concerns my specialty because I have a direct participation in it. We wrote an official letter to the Supreme Court to find out what the motives are and where we went wrong. We have received an official response as the Society of Anesthesiologists that the problem is not in the standard itself, but in an unsaved legal procedure for its introduction. Such are the motives for most other standards. It's probably a pass from the administration who didn't do her job properly. We will try and try right now, this is one of the first things that we started, to do as a task, to bring them into the legal order, so that they are no longer appealed, because the lack of existing standards, you are right, means lack of regulations. Lack of standard, for example, for emergency aid, is an obstacle to the emergency aid project. Moreover, the lack of existing standards also means a major problem in checking that we do, as we did at the hospital where there were broadcasts, as well as for the judiciary itself, because when there are cases, they must have a legal basis to step on. So this thing is clear for what reasons it happened and it is clear the path that needs to be walked because we without standards cannot work. With regard to your second question about sisters, the situation is indeed extremely worrying. There we have a long-term strategy and a short-term strategy. The short term consists of this, we have already prepared a letter to the Ministry of Education to correct the number of nurse training places. This will be a quick, somewhat effective measure. In terms of our long-term strategy, however, it will focus on their income, on their specializations and responsibilities, and postgraduate training. In training their powers, something for which they have been struggling for many years to have the right to an independent activity to be locked up in their qualification capabilities, and why not by increasing the qualification and creating a higher professional level, with more responsibility and higher pay, as exists in many European countries. You know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Yordanov for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u86	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Honourable Professor. Petrov, I understand the reasons for your response, but I cannot be satisfied with it. Therefore, I have collected the necessary signatures on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we propose discussions on the topic of my questioning about the Strategy for the Development of Hospital Aid Institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria. Let's get ready for the discussion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u87	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Dear Members of Parliament, with a duly submitted accompanying letter, No 754-00-26 of 2 June 2017, submitted at 1037 p.m., received a request for discussion on questions, No 754-05-13 of 17 May 2017 by the National Representative Georgi Yordanov to the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov, concerning a strategy for the development of hospital care facilities in the Republic of Bulgaria, together with a draft decision. The signature and the draft decision are signed by 54 MPs. There is a proposal of more than 1/5 of the MPs. On this basis, I am calling for a debate by discussion and voting on the draft decision for the next parliamentary control meeting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you. We move on to a question to the Minister of Health from the National Representatives Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova, Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and Ilian Angelov Timchev regarding the Strategy of the Ministry of Health and the treatment of mentally ill patients. Here you go. Mr. Timchev will develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u88	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, for years only and only psychodispansers have carried out psychiatric monitoring of mentally ill patients. However, these patients are known to have reduced criticality to their health. At the same time, there are also cases of dangerous behavior of the mentally ill toward others. Our question to you is: is there also a strategy of the Ministry of Health for health surveillance and treatment of mentally ill patients? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. For an answer the Minister of Health Prof. Petrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The strategy for mental health is part of the National Health Strategy 2020, Priority 1, Policy 1.5...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The provision of a mental health policy requires the development of an adequate system of care and services enabling successful integration and socialization of patients with mental disorders. The aim of the Ministry of Health in this regard is to provide equal access, quality treatment and care to all people with mental disorders by ensuring continuity, complexity of psychiatric care, optimization of hospital stay, development of modern therapeutic programs in the mentally ill community, improvement of quality and conditions for treatment, deinstitutization of the psychiatric system, establishment of a system for psycho-social rehabilitation. Patients with mental illness in Bulgaria are treated and followed in state psychiatric hospitals, which are 12 in number, in the mental health centers, also 12 in number, and in psychiatric wards or clinics in multiprofile hospitals, which are 23 in number. The disspanser report of patients with mental illness is carried out mainly in mental health centres, and where there are no findings being made in state psychiatric hospitals. In areas where no centers and psychiatric hospitals have been found, treatment and follow-up are carried out in the psychiatric wards of multi-profile hospitals. It should be borne in mind that according to the regulations, patients are not personally required to be monitored outpatiently, and this only happens at their will and with their consent. A guiding principle in the policy of the Ministry is the maximum recovery of the mentally ill patient in the social environment and along with this creation of a tolerant environment for his reintegration. In Bulgaria the care for the mentally ill is divided between the health and the social system, as the healthcare system provides only the medical diagnosis and medical treatment. This provides for the need to develop a new type of services that should be community-based and carried out by an interdisciplinary team. As basic measures for the protection of mental health in the National Health Strategy 2020 are laid down: the development of complex services for mental patients in close proximity to their natural living environment; the establishment of effective mechanisms for partnership between health systems, justice, education, social system. Mostly, however, this thing needs extremely great public support.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u91	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Honourable Professor. Petrov, I'm dividing the question into three purely medical, social and legal. On the first, the issue of a mentally ill register is missing. You live in a town where there's a dispensary, you're accounted for. But if you leave this city and live somewhere else, you don't report it, and you might get permission to purchase a gun. Hospitals are financed on a historical basis and the rest of them are subsidized by the Ministry of Health. There's not a single clinical path. Psychiatry is out of medicine throughout the transition. The salary of the attendings with specialty reaches 900 BGN, specialists health care - 600 BGN, the nurses are on the minimum salary. This makes the specialty unattractive and fewer specialists exist in the system. If we see the profile of a mentally ill person, these are socially weak mostly young people who are retired by illness left to themselves, that is, the state is missing. That's why they're bums and homeless. They commit crimes about 6% of them, and half of them commit serious crimes. They've been waiting for years for institutional accommodation. In the absence of loved ones to care for them, it is the state that must ensure their social protection if the loved ones are unwilling to care for them. In addition to medication, they also need their social protection, from day-to-day landlines, social assistants, labor-therapists, psychologists, psychiatrists, psychiatric nurses, who should have in almost every municipality. A change in the legal base is also needed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In case of threat and danger to others to be placed in institutions without the signature of the loved ones. Bulgaria has already, if you do not know, been sentenced by many such institutionalized mental patients.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u93	Get it over with, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u94	However, I am glad that mental health is a priority for your ministry and hopes to be a priority for the general health of people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. For an answer the Minister of Health Prof. Petrov. You won't answer in the back. We move on to the next question by the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Nikolay Penev regarding the completion of a new hospital in Yambol. Here you are, Mr Penev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u96	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, for years the question of completion of the construction activities and commissioning of the new building of the Hospital. Yambol is the subject of discussions, promises, partial funding, but no end result. During pre-election campaigns the completion of the hospital complex is a topic of active propaganda by the political party GERB for both parliamentary and local elections. Two governments and two mandates in the local government of GERB did not result. During his visit to the town of Veliko Tarnovo, he visited the town of Veliko Tarnovo. Yambol in 2015 the then Minister of Health Mr. Moskov undertook to move the hospital to a new building within a year and a half, which naturally did not happen. GERB's last election campaign in the district went under the key message and commitment to complete the new hospital. During his visit to the town of Veliko Tarnovo, he visited the town of Veliko Tarnovo. Yambol the former then and now prime minister made a firm commitment the state to allocate 12 million levs to finalizing the project. It should be noted that the pavilion-type hospitals, on which Yambol district currently relies, are characteristic of the 19th and first half of the 20th century and none have remained in any district city. Along with this, the growing problems, the provision of the necessary specialists and the preservation of the entire range of medical services offered by the Hospital are to be taken into account. Pantalemon in the town of Panthaleimon Yambol. Dear Minister, in this regard, I and the National Representative Christian Vigenin ask you: what is your view of the development of medical services in the territory of Yambol district and specifically regarding the Hospital. Panthaleimon? Are the 12 million leva required in the 2018 budget to complete the new hospital complex? What deadlines do you have for this? And what are your views on the services that will be offered in it, given that its scale exceeds the real needs of the declining population of the district? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u97	Thank you, Mr Penev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, dear Mr. Penev, regarding the problem with the Multiprofile Hospital, Yambol, the situation is as follows. With a contract for donation of real estate, private municipal property, on 20 May 2012, Yambol municipality donated to the Ministry of Health the right to property of five buildings and called them a new hospital complex "Surgery block," operating block, estacada, medical gases and so on. The property was imported to the hospital on 16 November 2012. In the new hospital complex is planned to reveal 400 hospital beds. In comparison, at the present time, or rather by 2016, the current Multiprofile Hospital in Yambol worked on 260 hospital beds in 2015. "272." I mean, it's about twice the capacity. With regard to the pavilion type of building of hospitals such hospitals with pavilion type there are in Vidin, Blagoevgrad, Haskovo and Pazardzhik, it is not only the hospital in Yambol. In this project to complete this hospital complex in 2012, the Ministry of Health provided a million and a half. In 2013, quantitative-value accounts were presented, according to which 12 million were required for the completion of the hospital complex. 413 thousand. lv. However, this figure does not include many things such as a medical gas installation, mobile medical and hospital equipment, as well as the medical equipment itself. In response, Dr. Tanya Andreeva proposed that external sources be used in funding and bet on a public-private partnership. What argument did she make? In my opinion, it is correct that the capital expenditure funds of the Ministry of Health for every year, starting from 2015, 2016 and 2017 amount to BGN 15 million. It comes to the conclusion that if 12.5 million levs are needed to complete the hospital complex, approximately that will be needed for medical equipment. In other words, this represents the budget for capital expenditure of the Ministry of Health for two consecutive years. In this sense, the management of the Ministry of Health considers the following several options possible. First, targeted funding from the Council of Ministers. Secondly, public-private partnership, we support Dr. Tanya Andreeva with her idea. And, thirdly, funding in stages. But before deciding which of these three options will be approached, it is reasonable to take into account the volume of activity of this hospital [[the President signals that time has run out]] which is predicting 400 beds against 270 at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u99	Thank you, dear Professor. Petrov. Dear colleagues, you have the floor for a line. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u100	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I am very impressed with the answer, as it practically shows that the Ministry of Health has absolutely no idea what it is going to do with this hospital. We have clearly asked the question: will 12 million promised by the current prime minister be planned? This completion of the hospital was the main message in all the election leaflets of GERB, and you are now telling me that there are three options and yet we are going to think about the options. Excuse me, but this hospital has been under construction for how many years now, how many times do you promise?! You either say today: there will be no hospital, or I commit to finally ending this matter so that Yambol can have a new hospital. Am I to teach you that when there is such a problem, you should think about options, of course? We don't insist that the entire hospital complex be a Yambol hospital. Logically, one part can become a hospice, can become a centre that attracts patients from other areas. For example, there can be purchased equipment, built some modern national center, which can be used by several districts of Sliven, Burgas, Yambol. The condition of the current hospital is indeed tragic. In practice, you are committing genocide to the people who live in Yambol District. People no longer dare to go to Yambol's children are no longer born in Yambol. Women go to give birth in Burgas, in Sliven. Yambol will be left with no population like this. I'm sorry, I can't structure my thoughts properly, because I'm absolutely outraged by the answer you're giving right now. I suggest to you, if you wish, to make a working group to include representatives of your Ministry, the Municipal Council in Yambol, the MPs. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let's get together, look at what's happening and sit down and solve this issue, because the hospital has become a way of constantly pouring some money, a part of it to be stolen, and eventually there's nothing. I'm asking you to take this to heart and try to solve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u101	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, would you like a duplicate? There won't be one. We come to the next issue of the National Representative Nina Mitkova on the strategy of the Ministry of Health for dealing with the emigration and migration of medical professionals. Here you go, Mrs. Mitkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u102	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my first question for you today is about the strategy of the Ministry of Health for dealing with emigration and migration of medical professionals. The problem with the emigration of specialists outside Bulgaria poses several negative effects, namely: Bulgaria is becoming an incubator of medical personnel for the European Union due to the relatively high level of medical education in Bulgaria. Due to the fact that abroad are going to work mainly young staff there is ageing of the medical staff and the natural process of personnel renewal is hindered. Young specialists leave our country and seek realization outside not only because of the higher levels of pay offered to them, but also because of work and access to more modernly equipped hospital and medical centers, as well as working in an environment with sufficient quantity and quality required for the normal operation of medical teams supplies and medicines. Our multi-profile hospitals and DCC suffer from systemic shortages of funds both for the upgrade of equipment and for the purchase of supplies and medicines. No less serious is the problem with internal migration of medical staff, namely the preference to work in larger cities and hospitals, which leads to a sharp quantitative shortage of treatment teams in small towns, leads to their overload, and this affects their quality of work. According to one statistic, there are an average of 478 doctors per 100,000 people in Sofia [[the President signals that time has run out]] In Yambol, for example, the ratio is 235 doctors per 100,000 people. Due to the lower levels of remuneration in small settlements, the practice is for medical staff to work in two or more places to provide the necessary income, which also affects the quality of their work to the sick. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In view of the above, I ask you to answer the following question: is a strategic plan being drawn up to address this situation so that it does not deepen in the future and to stop emigration and migration of staff in healthcare? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Mitkova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mitkova, according to publicly available statistics, processes of both internal and external migration continue to take place in the country. The internal one is clear what is from smaller settlements to larger ones, and the external one, naturally, is in better developed countries than ours. The largest share in these processes is the age group 20.. 39 years. Normalization of migration processes in the country in the medium and long term can be expected in bringing together quality and living conditions with places that are preferred. In this regard, I would like to point out that the Ministry of Health issues certificates necessary for work abroad, which does not necessarily mean equivalent departure to another country. No such conclusion can be drawn from the number of certificates issued because some of them use these certificates when conducting specializations abroad. However, if we look at the statistics of such certificates issued, it is clear that there is, albeit small, a tendency to reduce these processes. If the certificates were 655 in 2008, they decreased to 585 in 2010, 490 in 2012, 420 in 2013, 411 in 2014 and 365 in 2015. The factors underlying these processes are clear: the difference in pay, working conditions, standard of living, professional realization and, last but not least, the attitude towards the specialists themselves in society. It has been done so far, and we will continue to work precisely in this direction to carry out the specializations not only in university hospitals, but also in district and municipal hospitals. I would like to point out that more than half of the graduates in the past two years have already enrolled doctors in training to acquire a major in Bulgaria. Of course this will not be enough, but a good option is for them to work on contracts with the National Health Insurance Fund, on new programmes to be financed, because the specializations of the current ones in my opinion are not enough. It is good to think about their career development, as well as pay through the so-called additional incentive. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u105	Thank you, dear Professor. Petrov. Dear Mrs. Mitkova, you have two minutes to develop your line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u106	Dear Minister, the statistics you read about the decline in the issued certificates really sounds good and it is obviously a positive trend for fewer doctors to go and work in countries outside Bulgaria. I would also like to ask you, just as my colleague Yordanov did, to address all the health problems in Bulgaria, because this is the most important topic for the population. It is no coincidence that today, in today's parliamentary control, most of all, the questions are for you, the Minister of Health. There's a lot of work to be done, and I'm asking you for very efficient measures. That's it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Mitkova. It was more of a request. Would you like a duplicate, dear Minister? You don't want to. We are continuing with Mrs. Mitkova's next question about the creation of a personnel crisis at the Carlos multi-profile hospital. Here you are, dear Mrs. Mitkova, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u108	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I have heard that many colleagues before me have also addressed topics about other district and municipal hospitals. Obviously, this is a very big problem that you have to deal with. My second question specifically concerns the situation at the Carlos multiprofile hospital, a situation that developed about three weeks ago. Perhaps there is some development and a solution that you are likely to inform us about at the moment, namely what exactly the situation is. I will present my question accordingly. About 85,000. people in the area of Carlov are at risk of being left without sufficient medical attention due to the mass desire to leave nurses. Eighteen have deposited their exit applications. You know that the sufficient number of nurses is of crucial importance for the normal existence and service of a medical institution, and the standard in this regard is two to one or two nurses of one doctor. In Bulgaria at the moment there are many hospitals where this ratio is broken, and in the Carlos multi-profile hospital will obviously be completely unfulfilled and put at risk the quantitative and quality services of the patients there. The reason for this mass act of leaving is mainly financial and the sisters appeal for adequate pay, as their remuneration is so low that they share the inability to cover their basic, existential needs. In this regard, my question is this: how will you cover the crisis at the Carlos Multiprofile Hospital? How will you prevent it from occurring in other medical centers in the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u109	Thank you, dear Mrs. Mitkova. For an answer the Minister of Health Prof. Petrov. Here you go. You have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u110	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Mitkova, the hospital in Karlovo is a commercial company with 100% municipal participation in capital, the municipality of Karlovo is the sole owner. As such, it is within the authority of its management bodies that competence is to form the salaries of employees. In view of this, an opinion on the situation could express the relation of the municipal council in Karlovo as managing the rights of the owner. The Ministry of Health provides finance to hospitals under the Methodology for subsidising medical institutions. Up to now this year, 45 thousand have been translated. BGN 693. From the Ministry of Health. I would like to point out that nurses are the largest professional group, a health workforce and have an important role in ensuring access and better quality of health services. However, there is an alarming tendency for many nurses to abandon their profession or change their place of work. In this regard, as I did in one of my previous responses, the Ministry of Health has proposed to the Ministry of Education an increase in the number of nurse training places. It should be in such places where the property of the hospital is municipal, to have greater commitment from the municipal council, and the Ministry of Health can intervene only by providing methodical assistance from the nearest medical facility, in this case the University Hospital in Plovdiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u111	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Mitkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u112	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. In the second part of your answer, you mention and talk about the cadre crisis, which, in particular, in nurses, is due to the fact that there are not enough trained, i.e. there are not enough willing for this profession, or is there, respectively, enough, but we cannot intrigu them to remain in the sector because of problems such as low remuneration or poor working environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Mitkova. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u114	As I mentioned, Mrs. Mitkova, there is a process in which professional realization is abandoned, but these cases are extremely few. In my opinion, the number of attending nurses is smaller in view of the many hospitals that have opened up in the country; in view of the many activities that are constantly growing in the country and the associated lack of funding.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u115	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the next question to the Minister of Health. He is from Georgi Georgiev Mihaylov on the functioning of TELK after the cancellation of texts from the Regulation for medical expertise. Here you go, Mr. Mihailov. Two minutes for the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Professor. Petrov, ladies and gentlemen! The question I'm going to ask is the extreme attention of the public at the moment. Even yesterday you mentioned it during the Health Commission. The question is that by Decision No 5901 of 11 May 2017, the Supreme Administrative Court annulled certain texts of the Ordinance on the expertise of temporary or permanent incompetence of Bulgarian citizens, which puts on a very serious test a very large cohort of patients. These are the ones I want to draw attention to, women with breast cancer, we all know what the significance of this disease is, and at least 3,000 women are getting cancer every year; these are people with multiple disabilities, as Annex 2 of the Ordinance is also repealed. This creates a test not only in front of patients, in front of people with long-term and temporary disability, but also a test for the Committees to establish incapacity, because they cannot determine the percentage of the work that has been lost, temporary or permanent, of the relevant patient groups. My question to is you're in a few rounds. First of all, how do you see this problem being solved? When do you think a new Regulation on labour expertise will be issued, which will solve the problems that have arisen at the moment and which give rise to tensions in the population? In order not to burden you, because we have already had one mini debate in health care here, and I am pleased that next week there will be a serious debate, which we believe we really need both Parliament and the Bulgarian society, the supplementary question I will ask you now. How do you see at all the place for solving the labour expertise of citizens with temporary or permanent disability, as Bulgarian citizens do not only need to receive conclusions about the degree of disability, but also about the possibility of their biological and social reintegration into society? This is now about interactions between the Ministry of Health and the National Insurance Institute. In the election platform of GERB there was a proposal which personally puzzled me very much as a professional, as a doctor What is your view on this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u117	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. I take it you won't have a line later?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u118	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u119	Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u120	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Mihailov, by Decision No 1277-3 of 24 November 2016, the Supreme Administrative Court annulled the provisions of art. 69, para. 1 in the one to three-year part. The Court's reasons for the annulment of those provisions relate only to the alleged infringement of the administrative procedure for the adoption of the regulation, which is in the absence of the reasons for the draft regulation on the website of the Ministry of Health before the adoption of the regulation in 2010, as required by the law. So we're going into the same hypothesis as with medical standards. We believe that, even after the repeal of the texts in the Regulation on Medical Expertise, until the adoption of a new regulation, the authorities of medical expertise should continue to work seriously, respecting the Health Act, the Rules on the Construction and Organization of Work of the Expert Bodies and so on. According to the opinion of the Ministry of Health and the acts of the Supreme Administrative Court, the repealed provisions of the Ordinance do not change the medical criteria relating to the development of the relevant diseases. In order to prevent the existence of a period of time during which there will be no regulation of public relations, the Ministry of Health has prepared a new regulation which, together with its motives and the preliminary assessment of impact, has been published on the website of the Ministry of Health and the Public Consultation Portal on 6 April 2017 for a 30-day discussion. The project was sent for coordination and within the Council of Ministers according to the order of art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure. At present, the period for public consultation of the project has been completed and opinions of all ministers have been received. What's coming, Professor. Mihailov, it is on the coming Tuesday, if I am not mistaken, to hold the first meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, and to come up with an opinion, the regulation will come into effect and this problem will be resolved. I graduated.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u121	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Guys, there are four more questions left, so I suggest we don't take a break. We continue by asking Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Georgi Georgiev Mihailov, Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova, Ilian Angelov Timchev, Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova, Georgi Yanchev Gokov and Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov on the overall policy of the Ministry of Health in relation to Recommendation of the Council of the European Union on the National Reform Programme of Bulgaria for 2017. Mrs. Naydenova, please proceed with the questioning for three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u122	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly! Certainly we, as doctors and as MPs, need to know very well what the health situation is in the Republic of Bulgaria, for which we also have our responsibility, but we also need to know what is the external assessment of others for us. That is why our question is also on this occasion. On 22 May this year, the Council of the European Union Recommendation on Bulgaria's National Reform Programme for 2017, together with the Council's opinion on Bulgaria's convergence programme for 2017. The Recommendation contains serious worrying findings: limited access to health care; low funding; poor coverage of health insurance, including public outpatient medical services; high level of direct payments by patients, making it difficult for patients to access health care; emigration of health professionals. In this regard, we ask you the following question: what will be the policy of your team, Mr. Minister, in the field of health in this Reform Programme in the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u123	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. For an answer the Minister of Health Prof. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u124	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Naydenova! As is known, in the framework of the European semester, the European Commission is analysing budgetary, macroeconomic and structural reforms in the Member States in order to improve the coordination of economic policies in the European Union. The analysis shall be based on the national reform programmes and the convergence programmes of each Member State. Based on the analysis, the European Commission proposes that the Council of the European Union adopt separate recommendations for the 27 Member States in order to improve growth and economic cohesion within the European Union and strengthen social policies. Therefore, on 22 May 2017, the European Commission adopted a proposal for a Recommendation of the Council of Europe on the National Reform Programme for 2017 and contains an opinion of the Council on the convergence programme. According to the established calendar of the European Commission presented on 23 May, the Social Protection Committee of the Council of the European Union should assess the proposed specific recommendations in June this year. The recommendations will also be reviewed by the Committee of Permanent Representatives of the Governments of the Member States, in June will be submitted for adoption at a meeting of the Council of the European Union on Economic and Financial Affairs. The final variation of the recommendations should be approved at a European Union meeting on 22 June and formally adopted by the Council of the European Union on Economic and Financial Affairs on 11 July 2017. This will be the final option. The proposal for Recommendation published on 22 May highlights the problems that you very precisely defined: limited access; low funding; emigration of health professionals; poor health coverage in the country; high level of direct payments and so on. At the same time, it is noted that the introduction of a national health card is an important step in the right direction. The findings of the report point out that the selective negotiation based on the requirements of the national health card has the potential to improve the access of Bulgarian citizens to health care and provide equal opportunities for health care in the country's territory. The proposal of the Council of the European Union Recommendation contains proposals for Bulgaria regarding the health sector in three directions: extension of coverage; reduction of direct payments; and overcoming the shortage of medical professionals. With regard to the first recommendation the weak coverage of the country's health insurance, the Ministry of Health will develop events aimed at reducing the share of uninsured patients and extending the scope of outpatient care. In recent years, there has been a tendency to reduce health-insecure persons as a result of various control mechanisms and the possibility of flexible solutions. The main group of people who do not import health insurance is more than 1 million, according to data from the National Revenue Agency. 158,000. Bulgarian citizens living outside Bulgaria. This figure includes people who are outside Bulgaria, but are kept in the database of the National Health Insurance Fund as payers, although they pay their insurance in another Member State. Here we are again referring to the proper record keeping. The regulations introduced to amend the Health Insurance Act allow those persons to be covered as soon as they return permanently to the country and are therefore interested in using health services. The Ministry of Health will take a complex of measures to strengthen the role of primary aid as a significant means to address the challenges facing the health system. In implementing the National Health Strategy, our initiatives will be aimed at supporting policies for providing health prevention and disease prevention services. In this respect, the scope of preventive examinations will also be extended. With regard to the second recommendation concerning strengthening the control of direct payments by patients, this could be decided by strengthening the work on the integrated health information system, which is expected to illuminate all payments in the system and, above all, to reduce them. As far as the third direction of the recommendation is concerned, a reduction in emigration can be achieved by creating more secure and more favourable working conditions, better pay, easier training and career development. The implementation of the Conception measures in the emergency aid system continues, where we have improved access to specializations. Trained young doctors receive a lot of scholarships, improve their work on the Programme to improve the conditions for treating emergency conditions. In general, these are the measures that are being identified at the moment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u125	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions please come in, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u126	Dear Minister, I am glad that we have many common points in our understanding of the National Health Card. I think what she did in 2015. It was to give Bulgaria's current health situation, but it stopped there. She gave figures and data, gave conclusions that did not satisfy any of the parties. The National Health Card should provide and is one of the elements for good access of patients to medical services. She didn't play her part. It had to be updated first, second to answer how many structures are needed for small Bulgaria as medical institutions, which should remain exactly where the state should intervene and assist. This would have led to two things - first, whether the commercial hospitals would remain, and second, how the public resources would move, what financing would be. I'm just tossing the question so we can think in that direction. I'm glad there's going to be a debate in the next parliamentary control. On the public sector, public funding, on the private sector. Is funding there private or public sector funds definitely directed to the private sector? Until when? How is that supposed to happen? And three, mixed system. Where the state cannot provide high-tech medicine, let it be private. I'm done. You said that at any moment you should know where the patient is. This has been done, but unfortunately it has only come to this. This is because the electronic health record is not further developed. That's where we'll find out. The base has it, which means eHealth needs to be developed. So that we can think about the next debate, I'll say that health care isn't right now because of us is like an inverted pyramid. Above is the fixed medical care, hospital treatment, and below is the hospital care. I'm glad you said we'd be furthering the hospital aid. With joint efforts, we need to reverse the pyramid, because if we want to have an extension of our patients' lives, if we want to have a low mortality rate, we need to do just that. Thirty-four percent in this cross pyramid are exactly the unregulated payments that are in the gray sector. I think there are very serious things to work for.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u127	Thank you, dear Mrs. Naydenova. Will you answer, Mr. Minister? No. We're done with the questions to the Minister of Health. Petrov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to Minister Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The first question will be asked by the national representative Svetla Marinova Bachvarova about the implementation of the new methodology for determining the price of the service. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u128	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, my question is related to the application of the methodology adopted by the Council of Ministers on 2 January 2017. This happened at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers of the Government of GERB. It was adopted quickly and in an urgent order, as a result of which we are in a situation where water farming can be definitively drawn from the map of Bulgaria. Particularly sensitive are the sectors "Fruits" and "Veelchutsi" because the added value that we all expect to receive from this sector is primarily due to the use of this service. A little bit of history. The Law on Irrigation Associations was amended in the Forty- Third National Assembly. It was then envisaged the creation of such a methodology. We insisted that the methodology should have parameters set out in the Law, because we did not know what guidance experts would be working in. It turned out that the experts who developed the methodology had no bearing on the actual situation in the country. As a result we have a methodology that leads to twice the increase in the price of water compared to 2016. Only for municipalities Popovo, Targovishte and Loznitsa, where there are about 5000 acres of permanent crops, the price of water increases 2.5 times. This also applies to the regions of Plovdiv and Pazardzhik, where we also have problems with water farming. My question is: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take to provide affordable resources for farmers for the development of very sensitive sectors and their competitiveness, which is directly dependent on the cost of irrigation water? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u129	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. For an answer the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Water Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, adopted by PMS No. 16 of the Council of Ministers, methodology provides a way for calculating the price of the service. It has been prepared in accordance with the implementation of the Agreement on the provision of advisory services to strengthen the competitiveness of agriculture, preparation of priority strategies for sustainable management of the hydromeliorative sector by the World Bank. Thus, a new price policy is proposed that applies a two-component tariff with a constant service price component covering the fixed cost of water supply on an area basis and a variable component - a price based on measured volumes of water. By order of 14 February 2017, the Minister of Agriculture and Food has been appointed a committee to examine and analyse the water supply prices offered by water suppliers for irrigation of the service. In line with the requirements of the methodology, "Irrigation systems" offers for prices of the watering season 2017 service have been made. In an analysis of the prices formed on the basis of these proposals, it has been found that when comparing them with the prices in force in 2016, the water users will pay the same value for the service when watering each subsequent watering the paid value of the service decreases.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u131	Mr. Porozhanov, let's take a break. It's almost 12:00. Dear MPs, please honor the memory of Hristo Botev and those who died for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria! [[Everyone's getting straight. The sirens announce the three-minute pilgrimage to the feat of Hristo Botev and those who died for the freedom and independence of Bulgaria.]] Thank you. Let's move on. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u132	Thank you. On the basis of these proposals, by order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of 25 April 2017 a price has been set for the service Instructions for conducting the irrigation process in 2017, on 28 April this year, reflecting the conditions under which the water supply service is carried out, specifying the basic principles for delivery, reporting and payment. The order to determine the price of water and Instruction are published on the website of the Ministry in the Official Documents section. The measures to be taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to provide an accessible resource are laid down in the Common Strategy for the Management and Development of Hydromelorations, adopted by Council Decision No 688 of 18 August 2016, in order to protect against the harmful effects of water. They shall be expressed as follows: 1. a new pricing policy for water irrigation based on the principle of reimbursement of costs and on incentive-based pricing of water services; and 2. restoration and modernisation of the irrigation and drainage infrastructure. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u133	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Bachvarova for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u134	Madam President! Mr. Minister, thank you for your reply, but I never received an imperative commitment from you what you will do this year, because the problem is this year. The methodology that is currently being applied, regardless of the instructions you have given, is a law on irrigation systems. The cost of water is high. You said, "The cost of water falls on two waters, but in raspberry production the water flows are 20-30. The service to be paid is 50-60 BGN. The price of dekar passes 200 leva. Can you explain to me, you are an economist, how the profitability of this production will come from the current market prices, when the cost of water represents 25-30% of the cost? The sectors most affected by this particular problem with the inadequate cost of water. There are proposals that you must have received to review this service at all, this charge, which is extremely high, especially for the fruit and vegetables sectors. To consider a grace period in which to place the water meters a water meter costs from 2 to 3 thousand leva, and they are not one or two to be placed. Apart from that, you should know that when we talk about irrigation, we need to evaluate the resource that the state has. Otherwise, this most valuable resource of the 21st century goes to neighbouring countries, where in Greece the price for water for irrigation is not paid, and we are loading farmers with extremely much difficulty in providing financial resources, precisely for this irrigation price. As soon as I get back to Popovo, Lozenets and Targovishte. From 4500 to 5000 people are employed in raspberry production and this is temporary employment, which allows for additional income. At this price of water, none of those involved in these sectors will have the necessary motivation to continue working, precisely for these industries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u135	Thank you, dear Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Minister, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u136	As I mentioned, the water price compared to 2016 is comparable with two waterings. In each of the following, it decreases from the point of view of the permanent component. Every production, economically speaking, has its own cost, has its own market, has its own prices. At the moment to comment on raspberry production or the production of apricots and apples, I do not think it is the right place, but anyway the water in Bulgaria is paid. Maybe it's not like that in Greece?! These are the prices which currently do not exceed those of the previous year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u137	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MPs Filip Stefanov Popov and Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev regarding damage to forest arrays in Vidin region by insects. Here you are, Mr. Topchiev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u138	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, when presenting the priorities of the government, Prime Minister Boyko Borisov in the Sector.......................................... has mentioned that forests are intended to improve the preventions and control of forest conservation, sustainable maintenance, conservation and increase of the country's forest resources. In this regard and in connection with the frequent signals of the citizens in Bulgaria on the reception days, we ask the following question: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests take to protect the forest arrays in Vidin District from the attack of a white American butterfly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Porozhanov. Here you go. Eat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u140	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Popov, Mr. Topchiev! At the end of April and the beginning of May this year, according to data from the forest guards of the state-owned state-owned enterprises, there have been reports of the occurrence of various insect pests in the forest-tree vegetation in different areas of the holding. For the area of the town of Kula and the villages of Izvor mahala, and Kireevo the information is for the appearance of goldbacks, and for the area of the villages of Kalina, Thijanovtsi and Delanea is for the attack by a white American butterfly. About the region of the village of Archar..................................................................................................... Since then, local workers have been watching for possible pest gradation and establishment of deforestation in forest areas. In mid-May, the forest protection station Sofia carried out a check to establish the extent of an attack of leaf-eating insects on the territory of the state-owned company "Vidin." From the observations made, it was found that only affected by a white American butterfly are the roadside tree and shrub species located in the waiting strip of the road at the villages of Kalina, Thijanovtsi and Delanea and a second-class road after the village of Soldieritsa in the direction of the town of Kula. In these areas, there is also defoliation and plain larva fertilizer, which is in stage larva. The attacks are periodic and mainly affect road crops from younger trees and bushes. Currently affected are mostly young branches on the tops of single bushes and trees. The degree of attack is insignificant, the development of caterpillars is now over. No new deforestations are expected and no measures are necessary to limit the development of the harmful organism. There is no information to be found to be an attack by the specified harmful organisms in the forest arrays and, consequently, defoliation of the same ones, i.e. defoliation of insects and fronding pests in the forest areas in the state-owned holding area of Vidin, have not been established. Until now no information has been received from citizens about mass attacks on insects and pests on the territory of Vidin region. In the information system of the investigations and in the lesopathological monitoring of the Forest Executive Agency on 29 May this year, 6 signals have been registered for a low attack by leaf curlers and sub-measures on an area of about 200 hectares. The attack was found in mixed oak and cerium forests in the Kosovo, Makresh and Izvor villages, with defoliation within 5 to 10%. No further deforestation is expected from these tree pests for this year. In conclusion, no further measures are necessary to combat identified pests and no significant economic damage to forest vegetation is expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u141	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Topchiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u142	Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. You must know that forests are destroyed not only by logging, fires, but also by pests. And if at the beginning of the attack, the pest invasion is not being taken, it will spread and you will not be able to meet your priorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u143	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. This was the last question to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to the last question today to Nikolay Nankov the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The question is from the MPs Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the national energy efficiency programme of multifamily residential buildings. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! The question we are asking with our colleagues is about the policy of your ministry for the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings. You know, Minister, this program has started since 2015. 257 buildings have been implemented as of February 2017. At that time, the contracts for target funding with the Development Bank were 2022, and, you know, there are over 4,200 contracts declared for this type of contract, perhaps. The current implementation of the programme shows a number of weaknesses regarding the mechanisms for control of the programme. You know, there are a lot of signals from citizens about the quality of the completed construction works. At the same time, a number of checks found that funding of activities ineligible by the Programme was allowed and they were paid with funds from the Programme. The separate issue is that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works within a year three times changed the reference values with which the Programme was launched. You know, it initially started with BGN 290. of sq. meter, excluding VAT, and currently the reference price is 143 BGN. of sq. Meter, no VAT. At the beginning of this year, the second billion was voted on the Programme. Based on the public procurements so far, the forecast can be made that the resources of 2 billion. is exhausted with the contracts that have been concluded just over 2000. The question is, what will be the future of the Programme? In some of your public statements, you announced that the current order of the Programme, including 100% state funding, will be changed and will be committed by the owners themselves. Our questioning aims to answer these questions precisely: what do you foresee from now on as a development of the National Program? Are there any changes to the financing mechanism? Do you foresee changes in the mechanisms of control and institutional interaction in view of these weaknesses? If you foresee this type of development, how will the available financial resource be provided? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. For a response the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Mr. Nikolay Nankov. You're welcome to develop the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, regarding your inquiry regarding the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings, first of all, I would like to present you with up-to-date information, including with regard to its effects. As of mid-May the progress of the Programme can be summarized in the following figures: the registered associations of owners are 6 322 pieces; the submitted applications for financial support The buildings put into operation are almost 400, currently For all buildings for which construction or award procedures have been initiated, funding is provided. In other words, there is no option in which the activities carried out cannot be repaid. The program has proven to be an extremely good way to renovate residential buildings in Bulgaria and improve their energy performance. Buildings put into operation during the first heating season, significant savings in energy consumption, improved living conditions in buildings, provided a healthy environment of nearly 350 thousand people. This shows that the program is a very good tool for solving significant problems with the housing fund in the country. The way in which it is currently being implemented is subject to optimization, I have always claimed it, but even now there are clear methodical guidelines that define the responsibilities of the various institutions involved. Naturally, and control regarding the quality of implementation of the construction works is carried out according to the commitments of the construction participants under the Construction Act on the territory and for all sites there is construction supervision, and municipalities as beneficiaries also assign investor control. Control is also carried out by owners who directly monitor the implementation of construction activities, you know, in a large part of the municipalities they are also involved in the investor control activity. At the moment, from the above-mentioned 393 implemented buildings, 574 which are in the process of carrying out the construction and repair works, the MRDP has received an official 27 signals, I tell you 29 are signals in the ministry. However, problems are resolved in a timely manner. That's what they found and the checks I ordered to be carried out. All comments made during construction shall be removed at the expense of the performers. You know, the contracts that make up the municipalities are with the corresponding contractors of the construction and repair works. We have included guarantees for good performance, which are activated in unholy and incompetent construction. The Bank's recent verification of the Council of Europe Development Bank has also made it clear that the activities are being carried out in an excellent manner and that they refer to the best international practices, such are the findings in the Bank's report. The National Energy Efficiency Programme for multifamily residential buildings must continue from what has been said to be so far. Its role is undoubtedly great both for improving the state of the housing fund and for the energy security of the country and for reducing the energy poverty of Bulgarian citizens. In order to optimise programme monitoring processes, additional control mechanisms will be put in place to ensure greater publicity of implementation and results achieved. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has already carried out documentary and on-the-spot checks on buildings, as priority is given to those sites for which signals have been received from citizens in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The checks will continue and in addition to alerts checks will also be carried out on a random basis throughout the country. In connection with the changes in the Rules of Procedure of the Office, we will set up a dedicated department within the framework of the project "Residential policy" that will carry out control and monitoring. This will be his main activity during and after the construction and repair work. With regard to the funding of the Programme, it is essential to ensure its long-term sustainability so that it can cover most of the country's housing fund. This is what the efforts of our Office are focused on at the moment to develop mechanisms for the return of the resources invested so that it can be put into new ones. We are also considering extending the scope of the Programme to other types of buildings outside the current ones. In this extension, it is possible to provide for differentiation of conditions in order to improve the economic efficiency of measures, implementation of other policies. For example, protecting air cleanliness, introducing renewable energy sources, reporting on the social element, socially weak or energy dependent people, these buildings to be a priority. Currently, to improve the opportunities of the Programme with the participation of key experts from the branch organizations and our partners The National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and involved other departments, institutionally represented and based, of course, on the experience gained are discussed different opportunities to choose a maximum sustainable model for future implementation. The working group shall be operational by the end of June this year, i.e. another month. The proposal from the working group will be, it is my commitment to a broad public discussion so that it can really be optimized and continued with a really serious effect of the public resources invested in these buildings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, Mr. Genov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u148	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Yeah, you answered the question pretty much. We haven't heard concrete results on the target, the effect that has been expressed in energy, either in terms of financial terms of these so-called "350 thousand owners" which you have quoted. I have heard many things that I and colleague Yankova and colleague Boychev have explained from this tribune as recommendations and you have highlighted them as weaknesses. Then you didn't hear us, I hope you hear us now. What's going on? You really shined the truth about the phantom investments. I didn't hear you say about the three prices reduced during the time when we here were bouncing from this tribune and saying that these prices were extremely high and I didn't hear about the condition. Do you know what happened to an object, a firm? In this way, the program itself is deprived of competition. From the high reference values, I will go to the point that when a company appears on an object and, of course, a horse goes out alone, it will win the race. There's no one else, he's got no competition. That's where the really huge financial resource came from, and some residential buildings were renovated. The actions of Minister Lilyana Pavlova in this government were also deprived of management logic. You were also part of her team. As early as January 2016, a letter was sent to the bank for termination of contracts. At the same time, the mayors of municipalities do not know, avalanche associations grow, you said earlier, you even quoted the number of five thousand and so whether this information was missed to the mayors, knowingly or not... [[The President signals that time has expired. A line from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] My question will be only one: do you predict in the future program a reduction of the reference values under this program and do you intend to reduce them? [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Mrs. Dukova, when you're in a hurry, leave. I didn't commit you to sit and replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u149	Thank you. Mr. Genov, don't explain yourself. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Don't argue in the hall. Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. [[Replications outside the microphone between the MPs Manol Genov and Snezhana Dukova.]] Mrs. Dukova, Mr. Genov... [[Noise and lines.]] I'm tolerant, Mr. Genov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer. Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u150	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Genov! And I'm going to draw some numbers to answer your question basically. I'm starting with the expected indicators that we're going to achieve at 975 thousand. Megawatt hour saved electricity on an annual basis, over 300-319 kilotons expected annual reduction in greenhouse gas emissions from these 2022 buildings. In essence, it is true that, if you see, the mayors, whether by the National Association of Municipalities, whether by regular letter, which we released at the end of the previous term, are to terminate the conclusion of corresponding new future contracts, respectively to the provision of additional financial resources, i.e. municipalities and local authorities were also notified. Yes, it is a fact that the association of owners continues, which is a good process, increases the culture of association, general taking and solving collective problems by the floor owners. This was our main goal, of course, with the launch of the programme and this will be a great plus in its future continuation, as we already have.. I also mentioned the figures, a large set of currently registered associations, which are its potential future beneficiary, again on the line of municipal administrations. About the prices. Similar to a fund created during the government of Oresharski, it was called by the thunderous name "Growing up and sustainable development of the regions." There were no reference prices there again. We started the programme, we are also a market economy, on the principle: prices are set on a market basis. Something very logical. We've established some fluctuations between different municipalities. They were not only on the basis of identical activities, because in some of the buildings they performed N in number of activities, not only those in clean energy efficiency, you know, it was also allowed constructive strengthening, but also the program allowed it and allowed it to operate within the framework of the construction and repair activities of the buildings themselves to extend their life cycle, waterproofing of a roof, not to demand all activities, and therefore some of the buildings were doing clean energy efficiency, where this was prescribed by the energy audits, thermal insulation and replacement of window frames. The approach from here on out what will be about prices. The opinion of the Chamber of Construction and other branch organizations, respectively and the normal management decision should be.. The figures cannot fall indefinitely if this violates quality. And here, I think we should be a little more responsible. In the working group is discussed and will be adopted, most likely this, I say again, will go through public discussion, the option of the reference prices being differentiated on the basis of individual types of activities, for energy efficiency to such an extent, for constructive measures to such an extent, for respectively the completion of construction and installation renovation activities including improving the conditions in the common areas, staircase cells to such an extent. This is the logical approach, much more objective, much more fair. Yes, the program has a future. Let us also finish our work in the working group. The processes will be optimized and under control, not that it is currently insufficient, on the contrary, according to all legal regulatory requirements under regulations, but will also exercise much more serious control, I said what line we have planned for it to be carried out. Apart from that, the Directorate for National Construction Control is already ordered to exercise control, as are the legal powers of the supervisory companies, so we find out how they themselves exercise control over the builders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. For your treatment Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 105, para. 1 of our Rules I give you a petition with a request for a debate on this subject. Here you go. The commitment of two billion resources from the national budget implies a very serious attitude. We want, within the framework of this debate and the draft decision that we propose, to make clear all information on the current state of the programme, what is done so far, what financial resource is committed to the contracts concluded and whether they have achieved the objectives of the programme that have been stated. We owe this to all Bulgarian citizens. I am pleased that you initiated the establishment of a special control and verification unit. The big remark on the implementation of the programme so far is that there is precisely this type of physical control to establish the quality and quantity of the construction works. At the moment, this mechanism is not very clearly written. You know that the bank as a body that pays off the money doesn't carry out that control on the spot. In our view, this programme needs to change all mechanisms of control and institutional interaction. The most important thing in this debate, which we want next week, is to become clear and the future of the National Energy Efficiency Programme. This 2 billion resource is currently committed to these contracts and to the information you provide, it becomes clear that there are still 2,000 contracts from willing floor ownership owners to implement this programme. It must be clear how it will continue. You have not responded to whether there will be a change in the conditions and this needs to be made clear next week, however, if there will be a change in the conditions, whether a resource will be committed by the owners themselves and how and how this additional financial resource will be secured if there is a solution for the continuation of the programme. An interesting debate awaits us, I hope, useful to all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-02.u153	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Dear Members of Parliament, by letter No 754-00-27 of the second June 2017, submitted from 12.22 p.m., received a request for a debate on question No 754-05-09 of 16 May 2017 by the MPs: Cornelia Ninova, Zhelyo Boychev and Manol Genov to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for the implementation of the National Programme for Energy Efficiency of Multiprofile Housing Buildings, together with the Project for a Decision. The proposal for a debate on the questioning and the draft decision are signed by 53 MPs, that is, there is a proposal from more than one fifth of the MPs. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I schedule the debates on the questioning and voting of the Draft Decisions for the next parliamentary control meeting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Honourable Members, this was the last question of today's parliamentary control. We should thank the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nankov for his participation. The next regular plenary session of the 7th June 2017 at 9:00 p.m. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda, I am closing today's plenary session and parliamentary control. [[PHONE RINGING]]
