ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 14 July 2017, adopted at the first vote on 13 September 2017. Report on the implementation of the Law on Export Control of Defence Products and Dual-Use Products in 2016 by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 29 September 2017. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Aid Act. Importers are Dimitar Gechev and a group of MPs, on 20 September 2017. We propose that this be the first point for Friday 20 October 2017. Please vote. Vote 191 MPs: 129 against 1, abstention 61. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members of Parliament, in the plenary session held yesterday 18 October 2017, the text of Decision No 567 of the Council of Ministers of 2017 approving the draft law and proposing the National Assembly to examine and adopt it was presented on 2 October 2017. After reading it, a vote was held. After getting acquainted with the transcript of the plenary, doubts remain over the adoption of the bill in the first vote. In this regard, I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code, No 702-01-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 2 October 2017, which was reviewed yesterday. Please vote. Vote 192 MPs: for 119, against none, abstention 73. The bill was passed in the first vote. Moving on to today's first item on the agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE ARGUED AND ARGUED FORES OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 September 2017, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 198 of 9 October 2017 to the President of the Republic under Article 2. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. The report of the Defence Committee will introduce you to the President of the Commission, the People's Representative Konstantin Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe of the Defence Committee on Decree No 198 of 6 October 2017 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 September 2017, and the reasons thereto At its meeting held on 12 October 2017, the Defence Committee discussed Decree No 198 of 6 October 2017 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by 19 MPs. The President of the Commission shall report the President's statement and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 2 of the Constitution, the President returns to the National Assembly the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by challenging the provisions of § 1 and § 3. The reasons under § 1 shall take the view that, with the amendment of art. 79 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria introduces new higher and more relevant requirements for the occupation of the office of the Permanent Secretary of Defence and as the highest civil servant in the Ministry of Defence. It is stated that with the proposed editing of art. 79 the importer will not achieve the objective of overcoming existing ambiguities and incompleteness in the current legal framework. It is argued that the increased requirements for the figure of the permanent secretary of defence create conditions for discrimination against a number of categories of persons who wished to apply for the job and that the new requirements are not a guarantee of higher professionalism. In the grounds relating to § 3, which introduces the presentation of senior military officers to the Defence Committee by the Minister of Defence or a Deputy Minister designated by him develops the notion of breach by the legislator of the constitutional procedure for the award of senior military titles. It is pointed out that in this way a new, separate phase of the procedure is being established, developed before a support body of the National Assembly, such as the Defence Committee with the participation of the Minister of Defence or a Deputy Minister appointed by him. Further, the reasoning states that the presentation to the Defence Committee will break the balance between the defence management bodies, i.e. between the President and the Council of Ministers, which is in essence a shared competence of interaction between two constitutionally defined authorities of the State, with a view to the extremely significant public functions carried out by the senior command of the Armed Forces. In conclusion, it is noted that the provision is unclear, it is difficult to recognise the meaning in it, it creates the feeling that it is self-target, and that it poses a risk of politicisation of the senior command staff. In his speech after presenting the reasons the Chairman of the Defence Commission Konstantin Popov noted that the provision of art. 79 introduces clear rules that are in line with the minimum requirements for rank and professional experience at the Classifier for positions in the administration, given that the Permanent Secretary of Defence is the highest civil servant in the Ministry of Robbery. In the Classifier in row 2, 2a and 3 level 2 are enrolled the posts "Head Secretary in the Ministry", "Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior" and "Sustainable Secretary of Defense in the Ministry of Defence" with the same minimum requirements for taking up the position: educational degree "Master," rank "IV senior," and professional experience "8 years," as the professional experience is assessed with regard to the functions of the position. The President stressed that the requirements are not exceeded because they are the same as those for the Secretary General of the Council of Ministers, even by one degree higher, and for the Council of Ministers are: ranked The requirement of art. 79, para. 2, p. 2 the applicant has held a leadership position for at least one year and in the Ministry of Defence is related to the need to know the specifics of the position of the Permanent Secretary of Defence under its designated powers in art. 81 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. In this sense, the provision is a guarantee of higher professionalism and cannot be interpreted as a restriction. It is a regulated minimum condition for an objective choice of sufficiently prepared individuals. Nor are conditions for discrimination against a number of categories of persons, as stated in the reasoning, because the introduction of a legal norm that aligns the requirements for taking a particular position in the various structures of the public administration is not discrimination. The concerns expressed in the ground that, with the rule laid down in § 3 for the presentation of the senior command of the Defence Committee, a new phase shall be set up in the award procedure for senior military titles, are not justified as the officers will be represented in the committee after the constitutionally established procedure for the award of a higher military rank with the issuance of the Decree of the President of the Republic. The presentation is not interference with the powers of the defence leadership bodies defined in the motives as shared competence between the President as Supreme Commander and the Government with his functions under the general leadership of the armed forces because he cannot influence the choice already made. There is also no act of the National Assembly leading to a change in the status or status of the senior military staff and no obligations are imposed. The presentation to the Defence Committee of senior military officers after the issuance of a decree of the President is due an act of special respect by the National Assembly to the senior command staff, is justified in terms of assuming the future responsibilities and satisfies the missing need for contact between the majority MPs and the opposition members of the Defence Committee, produced and appointed by a decree of the President of the main positions of command. The presentation is not provoked by the fact of the decree issued, as expressed in the reasons, but by the functions of the Defence Committee as a specialized body of the National Assembly to participate in the formation and to assist in the conduct of the defence policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. The claim in the grounds that the norm introduced does not contribute to the rule of law is incorrect. It should be borne in mind that not only the presentation and even the hearing of the senior command staff is a legislative practice in different forms in other countries and in the specialized bodies of the legislative bodies. In conclusion, the people's representative noted that the reasons for the return of the Law for a new discussion in the National Assembly cannot be accepted as justified, and that the latter are not sufficiently legally justified. In the debates held, the people's representative from the parliamentary group of BSP, Tasco Ermenkov, defended the President's motives, pointing out that the proposals under § 1 actually sought justification for the actions of the Minister of Defence for the appointment of a new permanent secretary of defence and the change of appointments by the caretaker government. He also stressed that by introducing the new proposals under § 3 for the presentation of senior officers to the Defence Committee, there is indeed a new phase being created which is in unity and continuation of the President's act of honor with senior military titles and pointed out that the Commission is in its right and has authority whenever necessary and whenever necessary to listen to the senior officers of the Bulgarian Army. The people's representative from the parliamentary group of BSP Kolyo Milev joined the opinion, who noted that all the actions of the award are part of a procedure, including those that exist as events, are known in society, but are not constitutionally attached and does not see why the presentation to the Commission should not be considered as a continuation of the procedure. In their speeches the MPs Plamen Manushev, Boris Vangelov, Emil Hristov, Simeon Simeonov, Hristo Gajev and Milen Mihov firmly rejected the claims of the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Kolyo Milev and defined their statements as unsatisfied and false in substance. In his speech, the Vice-President of the Defence Committee and MP from GERB parliamentary group Vladimir Toshev disagreed with both the reasons under § 1 and the allegations regarding the authority of the Defence Committee whenever and when he wishes to call and listen to the senior command staff. People's representative Plamen Manushev pointed out that the Defence Committee is a collective body. In this sense, with the introduction of the norm under § 3, not only does the prestige of the Supreme Military Chamber rise, but the authority of the Commission and all its members is defended. A good practice has been introduced, which, through the exercise of parliamentary attitude towards the senior staff, involves greater responsibility for the members of the Commission. People's representative Emil Hristov stressed that the presentation of the senior members of the Defence Committee cannot pose a risk of politicisation, as stated in the reasons, because all parliamentary groups of the parliamentary political forces are represented in the Commission. In the existing guarantees in the Bulgarian legislation, the risk of politicisation is objectively more likely to be found at one of the stages of the existing procedure, but it is absurd to seek after it has already ended. People's representative Boris Vangelov from the parliamentary group of the "United patriots" highlighted the existence of a contradiction in the motives of the substance. On the one hand, in the second paragraph of Paragraph 3, it is written that the presentation takes place after the actual composition of the higher military title is completed which, within the meaning of the text, means the completion of the procedure. On the other hand, it is stated in the text of the first paragraph that, by presenting it, the legislator creates a new phase in the award procedure for senior military titles. After the debate was concluded and the Defence Committee adopted a vote, the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly that the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 September 2017. The opinion was adopted by 12 votes..... 7 votes against..................................................................................................... and without
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We from the BSP for Bulgaria and we support the veto of the President because we believe that the reasons he expressed when returning the proposed draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Defence and Armed Forces Act are fully justified and correct. In this regard, I would like to refer to the two main motives that the President also points out. One is connected to the permanent secretary. As we know, it combines civil-military expertise and expresses this position, this introduced model of integration between the General Staff and the Ministry of Defence. In this sense, we also see the uniqueness of the position of the permanent secretary, and I do not think that it is necessary, in the so balanced status and functions of the permanent secretary, to make amendments. The new requirements introduced in the Bill are actually added by the Single Classifier for the posts. This aims only to limit a number of categories of persons and thus discriminate against and restrict those who would like to participate in such a competition procedure. When we talk about the Permanent Secretary, the Law is made for a reason in this way, and its status is governed by the Defence Act so that it can be the most appropriate and, when elected, be able to express both the opinion of the civil and military expertise to the Minister. When I don't handle this function, he can be released. Therefore, the Defence and Armed Forces Act also sets out the cases in which he may be released. Of course, there's something else I'd say in that direction. I'm going to quote you on the change that is envisaged in point. 3, para. 2 where the one-year trial period is required. With the introduction of such a requirement, it is rather limited to the choice options and hence to the quality of the selection of the most suitable for such a position. In other words, the Law in this version is more democratic and gives more opportunity to choose the highest professional. In this regard are the motives of the President, which he has expressed. I therefore believe that the changes do not rather lead to improvement and improvement of the status and powers of the permanent secretary, but rather to the contrary. The second, which seems even more important, because of which the President returns the presented bill, is after the completion of the procedure for awarding the senior command staff with senior officers' titles to be presented to the Defence Committee. Dear colleagues, this is an unnecessary procedure. It's a mixture of authorities. In the Constitution it is precisely said that the President is the supreme commander-in-chief. Naturally, the Council of Ministers has certain powers and the procedure is so balanced and signed for a reason - to be able, on a proposal from the Minister of Defence, a decision of the Council of Ministers to present these applications and a decree issued by the President. In this sense, I believe that such procedures are rather creating a collision and interference in the already established procedure for honoring senior officers with senior military command. Moreover, it seems to me that there is an opportunity for political influence here, which I think is wrong, speaking of the Ministry of Defense, where we know we have depolitization. Next, a fundamental argument that I would like to point out in this direction, it is rather more significant than what I said, namely that we have a clear subordination in the Ministry of Defence. You know that the basic principle is of unity and through such a procedure we rather violate the principles of organization, of functioning, of governance in the Ministry of Defence. I therefore believe that in this sense the procedure is an interference in the management of the Ministry of Defence and the security sector, speaking of the senior command staff. That is why we support the President's veto and believe that his arguments are motivated, justified and we will support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Any lines to Mr. Tsonkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u6	Madam President, honourable Members! I, too, would like to confirm my words in the Defence Committee and say that perhaps the President of the Commission has been misled by fellow Members of the National Assembly to submit these amendments to the Defence Act. Here was just mentioned the President's motives for returning the Second Discussion Act. We support these motives because, as mentioned by the Secretary-General, raising the requirements to which the Permanent Secretary of Defense must meet, we should almost finally write his name. Although there was speculation about the appointment of a permanent secretary during the caretaker government and after that, it turned out that both were appointed in the proper and appropriate manner. I hope none of us doubt that it is the Minister of Defense who can choose, I would say, and appoint at any time a permanent Secretary of Defense to support the cabinet. This procedure, which is currently foreseen, is much more severe and discriminatory, and perhaps one of the colleagues, even senior officers, will not meet these requirements if they need to be implemented. I even doubt that whatever commission is chosen for the permanent secretary and 20 people to apply, what is the logic that the most appropriate one will be chosen and from these 20 committees will not offer the most inappropriate position, the most inappropriate person? The responsibility, by the way, is always borne by the Minister of Defence, who affirms, and the Prime Minister who appoints. With regard to the generals, and now there is a procedure in which any member of the Defence Committee, through the President of the Commission or the President himself, can initiate a hearing, even as was envisaged by the first time, or presentation through the parliamentary control, of any general or senior officer in such a position to be heard in the Commission. By this wandering around the Commission's meetings from the initial texts that were proposed, with the hearings, with the introductions, then with the compromise that was made on the presentation, it was concluded that these proposals were inappropriate. That's why I don't support them. By supporting the President's motives, we, our parliamentary group, will reject the proposed amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Replies to Mr. Milev's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u8	Madam President, honourable Members, I have read the reasons very carefully. First of all, I was impressed by a huge contradiction in the motives themselves. With regard to § 3, I quote, the reasons are stated: The Law adopted provides that senior military officers are to be represented in the Defence Committee of the National Assembly. In the next paragraph below, the founders of the motives themselves have self-verified, saying that: the presentation to the Defence Committee, after the actual composition of the higher military title has been completed, creates the feeling and so on. That is, once it is said that a new phase is being created in the proceedings of the High Commanding Board, and immediately afterwards it is said that this is not the case and that with the President's decree the proceedings have ended. That is to say, the presentation to the Commission has nothing to do with this production, on the contrary, it really does mean that the High Commanding Chamber should be honored by the highest authority in Bulgaria. With regard to § 1.. about the status of the Secretary-General, I do not see what concerns colleagues that the status of the Secretary-General will be enshrined in the Defence Act and there are listed the criteria to be met and the manner of his appointment and exemption. Only if BSP colleagues believe they can be eternal opposition can they have any concerns that the status of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Defence in the Defence Act is fixed. For this reason, there is no way to support the motives and we will vote again for the Law. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Replies to Mr. Borisov's statement? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u11	A line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u12	I'm making a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u13	Line, yeah! Here you go. There was a glitch in the system.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u14	I'm speaking to the speaker before me about the contradiction. No, there is no contradiction, on the contrary, in the motives there is evidence of the senselessness of what is being proposed. There is no contradiction, because really, if you look at art. 136 of the Defense and Armed Forces Act, you will see that there are currently two paragraphs in which one determines what the Supreme Command is, the other determines how the generals are produced and that this is done on a proposal from the Council of Ministers by decree of the President. When you introduce the third subparagraph, that you have to represent someone in committee or wherever, you legally introduce a new stage of the entire procedure. And what's written in the motives is that this stage is absolutely pointless in this phase, it doesn't make sense, it's all over, and one appearance in the Commission is what to call it, tickling self-esteem. Once again, as unpleasant as it may be to repeat it, an attempt to intervene in the President's powers to issue decrees, and we somehow, somehow, through the back door, try to say, "Look what, you're not the only one in this process." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Milev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u16	Dear Mr. Borisov, let me also disagree with you, as the Bulgarian Army and the Ministry of Defence have built up slender systems on a separate supply of officers to ascend into the next military ranks, especially in the higher military ranks. It is the Minister of Defence who is proposing on his own line, the Defence Headquarters is proposing on its own line and the Defence Council is being adopted, after which, on a proposal from the Council of Ministers, the President issued a decree. All of this is written and is known, so this phase that you are talking about is not mentioned anywhere, but the procedure ends with the issuance of these particular decrees and the presentation of the officers. All generals shall not be appointed and shall not immediately accept their posts on their title or on the issue of the decree. This can happen later, and this has happened and will happen. It is sometimes unfortunate, after the decree has been issued and he has not yet accepted the position, to write that he should appear before the Defence Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Milev. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Borisov, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u18	I think what my colleagues said had nothing to do with what I said. In the reasons that are before me, I do not read them, it says, one time that the presentation to the Commission in Parliament is a phase of the proceedings, and a little further down it says that the phase has ended with the service of the declaration. That's all I'm saying, and I think it's a major contradiction in the motives themselves.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u20	Madam President, fellow Members, we are looking at the President's veto on the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, which we adopted nearly a month ago, a law which, at the time of the first and second reading, caused a discussion in both the Defence Committee and the Parliamentary Hall, a Law by which the current National Assembly wanted to vote for a change in the Law on State Staff and the Defence Act and the Armed Forces, where the issues concerning permanent secretaries, appointed respectively in the various ministries, were clearly written, whether the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the Ministry of Defence. Then, although we stressed that it is not necessary to change the requirements for the permanent secretary, the majority voted to do so by adding new requirements to the candidates. Although the minimum requirements set out in the Law give the Commission a good opportunity to choose among the candidates the most suitable one, the one who has the best professional experience, who knows the system, so it was not necessary, I say correct, some change because the elected and appointed permanent secretary also met those requirements which were laid down before in the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. It could have been done without this change, from which really nothing new comes in legislative terms and nothing new foresees in the future, and does not guarantee that a next government and a next parliament will not make their new changes, which will also do nothing differently, as there is a well-established practice that has been used for years. As for the question of the presentation of the High Commanding Board to the Defence Committee, at the first reading of the Law, we discussed whether it was not good before the decree was issued to meet the candidates, to ask them questions. There was a joint decision in the Commission that we do not need to interfere in the work of the Council of Ministers, the Minister of Defence and we did not adopt such a text in the Law. The text remains for the generals, the High Commanding Chamber, to present themselves to the Defence Committee after the issue of the decree, a single act which was written in the Law, which, unfortunately, has no perspective, because if someone does not present themselves to the Commission, what happens to it? That's not written down! If someone refuses to go to the Commission, what's next for them? Although it also makes sense for me for the newly appointed senior generals to present themselves to the Commission to enable them and for the people involved in this Commission to get acquainted with the new command staff. However, this could be done and there is no problem with the minister doing so with his regulation. I would gladly accept such a decision, but issuing the solution to this issue through law really disturbs people. We, as a parliamentary group, will support the president's veto and I urge you once again to think and make the Law work so that it does not create discomfort in the institutions and in the people who will benefit from it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Replies to Mr. Panchev's statement? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u22	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, judging from the speeches of some of the previous speakers, there is a profound lack of knowledge not only of the members of the Defence and Armed Forces Act but also of its principles. First, I would like to point out that one of the mentioned Articles. 126, I think it was, in fact, about the positions that require a higher military rank, not the way officers are produced accordingly. Let us quote the Law correctly. As for some of the speeches on the function of the permanent secretary, well, not colleagues, the constant secretary's idea is not to support the minister and be able to deal with him at any time if he is not satisfied. The idea of the permanent secretary is to organise continuity between policies in different governments. This is precisely why he has a mandate of four years and his mandate is made so that it does not generally coincide with the mandates of a government. Moreover, the only example of telling a permanent secretary in the Ministry of Defence was, as I recall, in 2014, after the Oresharski Government resigned. Right after the resignation, a committee was formed in a hurry to deal with the permanent secretary, to fire him so that he could replace him, in the middle of his term of office. So you really seem to be speaking from experience. As I mentioned, by the way, at the first and second reading of the Bill, if there is a spiritual father of changes for a permanent secretary, it is the Minister of Defence. Let us remember, however, what happened in March this year, when the Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence was appointed to replace him and within a week he became a permanent secretary of defence without having a day's service in the state administration. It became without a day's service the highest civil servant in the Ministry. And here just now, colleagues commented, including from the opposition, how this should not be done and is not a rule. Yes, it did, and that's why we set these rules. All I want to do is open a clamp, then the minister of the service even lied from this tribune, saying that he had made this appointment so quickly because there wasn't, hardly, anyone to sign the case files, given that a week earlier he had appointed a temporary member of the office for six months. So that wasn't very correct either. But let's look at the whole picture of dismissals and appointments during the caretaker government, because, by changing not only the permanent secretary, but also the director of the Institute of Defence, the directors of key directorates in the Ministry of Defence, especially by appointing as Director of the Defense Office and the directorate responsible for public procurement, a person who has not been in charge of public procurement during his life, shows an approach to action of people who do not have any competence, but are obviously faithful. This is the wrong approach, and I even wonder if these motives actually went through the Secretary of Security of the President's desk and whether he put his own personal motives inside them, because he is the person who takes the best advantage of the loopholes in the Law that currently exist. So, of course, he won't want us to close the loopholes he used. But let's get back to motive. If I should quote them, I believe that the new version will not achieve the objectives outlined by the importer, namely: Overcoming existing gaps and ambiguities in the legislative framework in force. How do they want to overcome them when people from the president's administration have abused them? Second quote: He creates conditions for discrimination against a number of categories of individuals. Moreover, the new requirements are not a guarantee of higher professionalism. On the contrary, colleagues, very clear rules are introduced, which must be met by the Permanent Secretary. As has been said, the Permanent Secretary is aligned with the Administrative Secretary of the Ministry of Interior, with the Secretary General in the ministries and must meet these requirements. We are now doing them in law precisely so that they cannot be abused, as March was abused. Who are the discriminated against? Discriminating are people without experience, people who have no experience in the system, not being able to take the highest leadership positions. There was a comment that almost ex-servicemen couldn't take up this position. On the contrary, this is not true, since the Civil Service Act itself allows not only service but also service experience, which is also acquired by servicemen, to be considered necessary internship. The only additional requirement we have introduced is to have held a leadership position for at least one year in the Ministry of Defence to ensure the high professionalism the President fears. Somehow, an experienced secretary general from another office, whether by Justice, they are in a building, to take up the position of permanent secretary of the Ministry of Defence, for the simple reason that the functions of the permanent secretary of defence are many, as was said earlier, more unique than the other chief ministers in the ministries. In this sense, the provision we are introducing is one of the guarantees for the existence of higher professionalism, explicitly necessary for the exercise of precisely those powers. The introduced norm also takes into account the speciality of the Permanent Secretary, which is equal to the Chief of Defence. After all, we're talking about an integrated Ministry of Defense. Let me remind you of some of the responsibilities of the Permanent Secretary under art. 81 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act: The Permanent Secretary of Defence directs and is responsible for the defence planning, programming and budgeting; the planning and control of the implementation of works, supplies and services for the construction of planned defence capabilities; the activities of international military cooperation and many others. Well, how is it for all of this to be appointed a man who has no experience? We all agree that it must be someone who can run this administration and can perform these functions, not someone who is literally taken from the street. The President only returned § 1, but forgot to return § 2 of the Bill. The first paragraph, in general terms, aligns the requirements for the appointment of the Permanent Secretary under the Law on the Civil Service Officer and paragraph 2 in fact examines how the Permanent Secretary is to be released. That is, if we accept the veto, the permanent secretary will be appointed by one law, but he will be fired by another law. Isn't that a legal mess? On the occasion of the presentation of the generals to the Commission, I would just like to remind you and ask you a rhetorical question: were the actions of a senior president of the Committee on Foreign Policy in the Forty-second National Assembly, as I recall at that time a member of the BSP leadership, who during the same procedure, which is the same for ambassadors and generals, called the ambassadors before they were completed the process of hearing in the Commission, and wrote consensual letters to the President of the Republic which ambassadors should be appointed and which should not be appointed? Wasn't that in the same way illegal and unconstitutional as you claim at the moment and as the President's motives claim? But when BSP does it, it can, of course. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] However, in your last actions you can see your high moral positions and distinctions, as you like to do. As has been said at the beginning, this is precisely why we have complied and changed the presentations not to be during the procedure between the Minister of Defence and the President, but to be after the completion of the procedure itself. The greatest evidence that we have achieved this is the President's own motives. They say that the presentation to the Defence Committee is after fulfilling the actual composition of the Board of Directors. So, no, a new step is not being introduced in the production of senior officers, but on the contrary, this is quite another stage that has nothing to do with it. Speaking of generals and the way in which BSP abuses speeches from time to time, let us note, however, that the main factor in the production of senior officers is the Minister of Defence. The Defence Council is an advisory body with the Minister of Defence. It's the Minister of Defense's decision. And who chooses the Secretary of Defense? It is elected by the National Assembly. That is why we will support the Bill and will not support the veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. [[Applause from GERB.]] Any lines to Mr. Gajev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Gazhev! It's about the appointments of the permanent secretary. I want to remind you of something. By order of the Minister of Defence on 30 May, a contest for the selection of a permanent secretary is organized and criteria are introduced, requirements to be met. My question to you is: why didn't the minister wait with this procedure, given that we are now making such changes to the Law, so that it is all legal Because, looking at the criteria in this order, we see that they are not synchronized and do not meet the requirements and criteria that are now being set with the Bill we are discussing. That's the first one. Secondly, with regard to the procedure for presenting the Supreme Military Command, I do not think that any further introduction should be made, for the simple reason that the Commission can always call, ask questions, ask for opinions, debates from the general's point of view. I do not believe that the Commission needs to be involved in such a procedure and to be entrusted with additional functions and powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u26	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tsonkov! On the part about the legality of the Minister's order of 30 May, I think you should first consult the lawyers in your own parliamentary group on how to make reverse legislation. I've never heard of such a miracle. Secondly, if you have doubts about the legality of the order issued on 30 May, there are some bodies you need to refer to. The Supreme Administrative Court shall be competent to rule. I'm begging you to make such a call to see if everything was okay or not. Setting additional criteria, I think it is the authority of the appointing authority, as long as they are within the law. As for the presentation of the generals themselves, it has been said that the defence system relies on the one-on-one. The invitation by an authority, without having clearly written provisions on how exactly it should be done, creates concern in such a strictly hierarchical system, which is accustomed to carrying out a hierarchy order of issuing orders. As for whether this is good for the generals, how they'll feel, I'm not a soldier, I'm not an officer, and I have no way of telling. I think there are people here in this room who are much more prepared to comment on whether this is good for them or not. I am using the case that you reminded me, talking about the Permanent Secretary of Defense, let us not forget that on 30 May no one has made everyone else qualify to apply for the position, a Permanent Secretary, be pressured to sign declarations that they refuse to participate in the competition, which they signed in March. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Here you are, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u29	Extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u30	Dear colleagues! You get paradoxes. The initial version that we have proposed has been clarified several times already because this is still a third reading of the Law. We proposed that during the procedure for the production of generals and giving a new position should be heard in the Commission. We agreed with the colleagues' arguments not to delay the process, not to change it or to influence it only not to delay it, the presentation to the Commission to be after the President's final decree, even removing in the version the word "hearing" and it was only a presentation. At the first reading of this Law, here I would like you to listen to me, fellow Members, half of my fellow Members on the left-hand side of the Defence Committee, voted for. At his second reading in the Commission, 19 people were present from 20 and 19 people voted for.................................................................................................. [[Heckling]] What happened between the second and third reading of the Law that now everyone is suddenly against it? We overreact, we lose something, we win something... I have no idea. For the permanent secretary. The ranking officer of the administration's positions, look at them, is no different from what we have proposed in the Law, except that we say for the Permanent Secretary that he was in a leadership position for three years, of which one worked in the Ministry of Defence, to distinguish between the Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Defense 2, Defense Headquarters and so on. Just know where to get to work, at least this. Separate discrimination, which is fixed in the reasoning as a term, I would like to say to you, Latin origin means making a difference. And here I want the lawyers to hear me, correct me in speech or in reply, if I am wrong, the separation of individuals on a given rational point is not, is not discrimination! The experience we require for the highest administrator in the Ministry of Defense cannot discriminate against him from the others. This one, first. Second, for the generalite. Don't insult the general for a general! Please! That a general might not be able to tell himself the first three sentences of the CV correctly, we shouldn't eliminate the entire generality! I'm giving you a specific example with a specific name. Why would we first listen to them from Colonel to General and then from Major General to Lieutenant General? Yavor Mateev, Commander of the Special Forces. I don't want to confuse the man, I give him an example, it has nothing to do with the truth, I'm not the person who makes the proposals by the Commander of the Special Forces, the Chief of Defense, and then the Secretary of Defense, they offer him as commander of the Land Forces. He must come to be heard because the Defence Committee proposes to the National Assembly how to spend money on ground troops, special forces, naval forces and so on. We should hear it in this quality, not as Yavor Mateev's face. There should be no jealousy between the institutions! I'd like to say one more thing about motives. The Defence Committee is a specialized body of the Assembly, not a support body of the Assembly. If someone doesn't know the difference between assistants and specialists, let's make it clear! Those who wrote them don't let the president down! Dear colleagues, in order not to take away from the Group's time, it is very good to respect the army, to respect its superior command and to know who are those who give money for fighters, for ships, for war machines, for teaching and so on. That's it! [[Noise and lines: The people give them.]] The people give them through the Defence Committee, which also reconciles the proposals here in this Chamber. If anyone doesn't know that, don't think we're 1987. It's 2017! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u31	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. Any lines to the statement? I don't see any lines. Anyone who wants to make any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try to be brief, clear and precise. I would like to address a new argument in the debate that appeared during the debate on the president's veto, which has been said here today in this House, namely that the Minister of Defence in the appointment of the permanent secretary in May this year has committed an infringement. This is a new thesis that we find unacceptable and unfounded. Without going into details, I would remind you that when discussing the Draft Law in the Committee on Defence at second reading, this issue was clearly raised and then no one raised the problem that Minister Karakachanov's actions are somehow contrary to current legislation. Today is the development of the thesis, and it was clearly defined to the Defence Committee that, with this bill, we legitimize some actions of the Minister of Defence, which, at the time of their implementation, disagree with the legislative norm. This is something that cannot be overlooked, and we strongly oppose such suggestion. What's more, we didn't hear any motives in that direction. Secondly, I would disagree with the arguments made on the issue of the presentation of senior officers to the Defence Committee. They are based on two main views. First, that a new procedure is being introduced, which is somehow defined as bad and, at the same time, that the existing opportunities given to us by the Law can apply the same procedure, which is logically incompatible. If there are now legal frameworks for senior officers after their proceedings to appear in the Defence Committee.. and this is bad, then the BSP must take a legislative initiative and be banned, removed and corrected. Next, as a lecturer, I cannot ignore the fact that § 1 of the President's motives clearly contradict the logic. I quote: "With the provisions of the amendments to art. 79 new increased, applied requirements for the occupation of a permanent secretary shall be introduced. And in just one sentence below, there is doubt that these, I repeat, elevated criteria will not lead to better selection. I don't understand that! As a long-standing teacher, I know that the higher criteria usually reduce the number of excellent grades, but I definitely know that the quality for these excellent assessments is far greater. Therefore, honourable Members, we disagree with the President's motives. We believe that they are not sufficient reason to change our attitude towards this Bill. Once again, we stress that the senior general should be placed in a high position and his presentation to the specialized body of the National Assembly, such as the Defence Committee, is a mechanism for raising the authority of the Bulgarian generals, and hence the authority of the Bulgarian Army. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u33	Thank you, Mr. Mihov. You have the floor for lines of speech. There are no lines. You have the floor to speak, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We discussed it in the Defence Committee very seriously, we discussed the issue of this Bill and Law at first and second readings. He was returned with the motives indicated in the president's veto. I cannot agree with almost any of them, much less those of colleagues who have spoken now from the stands and who have spoken in the Defence Committee. I cannot understand that we are introducing requirements for a permanent secretary of defence such as there are for the other permanent secretaries, permanent or principal, in ministries, and the equalisation of requirements for the permanent secretary of defence to say that they are increased requirements or that it is any discrimination towards someone. It's not! We do so according to such that he is a second-ranking civil servant and there are requirements for him to have worked for eight years, to have three years of management... and the only perhaps slightly increased requirement is that he was in the Ministry of Defence for one year, and the reasons are why. With regard to the generals, I have also tried to explain in the Commission. Gentlemen, their presentation in the Defence Committee is because of the authority of the Defence Committee, so that the Defence Committee can also know the Bulgarian General by face-to-face, and they are not so many people, so that he can see not only what they look like, but hear them speak, hear their views about what they will do, how they will command, what problems they have, how we can help them. That's what this presentation is about! There was really the word "hearing." I want to tell you that it's not fooling our proposal. On the contrary, we did so in order for there to be consensus, we made it possible for the general to be represented after the entire procedure was completed. It's not an element of her, it's something after her. And we did it so that you would agree, and there wouldn't be the slightest drop of doubt that we wanted to intervene in the authority of Mr. President. It's not! We're also doing it for the generals themselves. The generals shall be in the Commission and shall see the Members of the National Assembly. We cannot put any doubt in the Bulgarian people that we are something bad in this National Assembly. On the contrary, this is the temple of democracy. Three million eight hundred thousand people voted for all of us, 240 people. We are 20 people in this Commission. We are representatives of these people, and we are of all political powers. This cannot be about any politicisation, on the contrary, the General will come and see the Commission. Many things depend on this Commission in the management of defence, including how we will persuade the National Assembly to vote on what funds to be allocated to the Bulgarian Army. So I do not find this to be a politicisation of the Bulgarian general. On the contrary, I've given it a few examples. Believe me, for the Bulgarian general and Admiral this building is a temple! I've been to the Defense Committee several times. More than half of the people inside have not known what political power they are from, but I have treated the institution of the National Assembly with great respect because to me it is the most important in a parliamentary republic. And we cannot put such motives into question and question what we wanted to do. We don't have any of those backstage, backstage thoughts, and let's just say we want to confront the president, no, we didn't do it for that. We did it, first of all, to put order and no partisanship in the appointment of the permanent secretary of defence, we did it to raise the authority of both the Commission and the Bulgarian general. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Manushev. Are there any lines to Mr. Manushev's statement? I won't. Are there any who wish for further comments? Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm just asking you to extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u37	The time of all groups is extended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u38	Firstly, I would like to say that I will support the president's veto, but I would like to stress that this does not automatically make me his defender, because at least he has sufficient administrative and management experience, and the team around him - with the necessary legal expertise and capacity to have the need for protection from some MP from our parliamentary group. Bulgarian legislation in the field of defence, built over the last 25 years, is perhaps one of the most controversial compared to the other branches of law. The Bulgarian Parliament is definitely indebted to civil society because it has failed to create enough democratic legal norms, procedures and good practices in the management of the security sector in these nearly three decades, in particular in the implementation of parliamentary and civil control. This matter is usually settled blankettely, by reaffirming the texts of the Constitution on parliamentary control, as a result of which the security sector continues to be opaque and poorly controlled. The proposed decision to present to the Committee on Defence to senior military officials after they have been awarded high military titles is, in my view, a decision of this category of conjunctural decisions which do not contribute to democratic control of security and defence services and do not give rise to any legal consequences, but I do not find it unnecessary to have a debate and to consider perhaps changes on a principle basis, not only in the Defence and Armed Forces Act, but also in other internal security laws, which would actually involve parliamentary committees in the appointment or control procedure of the heads of special services. Of course, through the appropriate mechanisms and without the Commission's opinions to have an imperative character and not to be influenced by the political situation in certain appointments. A confirmed practice in most democratic societies is the presentation in parliamentary committees of the nominations for heads of special services in the security sector, after their nomination and before the initiation of the procedure for their appointment. We also have a similar practice with the nominated ambassadors who are being heard in the Committee on Foreign Policy. This would rather be some form of parliamentary, civil control, and would increase the role of parliamentary committees in security policy, but the proposed changes are rightly returned, I think, by the President of the Republic, as unnecessary and further aggravating the procedure for awarding high military titles. On the same plane are proposed changes in the requirements for appointment of the Permanent Secretary of Defence. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Any lines to Mr. Vitanov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u40	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will take account of the reasons why the bill has been returned and why it should not be supported at third reading. [[Noise and lines.]] First, regarding the permanent secretary. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a precedent here in the legislative initiative. So far, the laws and changes in them have been offered to us as projects either by the Council of Ministers or tabled by MPs. Now we have an order from the Secretary of Defense who actually appears... [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u41	Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Dear Members of Parliament, I ask you to limit the movement in this Chamber, because there is really no speech here and to reduce the height of the calls. Please, colleagues on the left, take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u42	Mr. Chairman, I'll ask for a bonus in time after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u43	You always have a bonus. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u44	So, I repeat. Why is it a precedent? Because we currently have amendments to the Defense and Armed Forces Act initiated by the Minister of Defense's order. What are my arguments about this thing? Well, first of all, because this permanent secretary, who is currently appointed, is appointed as a result of a procedure initiated by the Minister's order, in which the Minister's order has requirements that do not exist in the Defence and Armed Forces Act and which you today want to enter into this Law by amending and supplementing it. Therefore, this order that I am telling you about and which we have shown you between first and second readings and at the time of first reading is the legislative initiative, and even though these changes have been made nominally by MPs. Unfortunately, it is. Because you will see that what is in the order, one to one, corresponds to the changes we are making now. I don't think that's the good way for the orders to then be legalized. I think it should be the opposite. First, laws are passed. On the basis of these laws, orders are written. Otherwise we have to reverse the pyramid of the state. It is true that it is our prime ministerial, but let us still retain at least a little of the authority that our Parliament has. The second is the presentation. I once told and talked about why it was a new phase. I don't want to repeat myself again. When you legally introduce new requirements, you can't say that this is not a phase. Because the question is, why are you doing this? And, for example, I want to ask the importers: what legal consequences will this provision have in the Law, provided that there are neither deadlines nor procedures nor there is anything when this should happen? How will the presentation be done in practice? I took the liberty of joking with the Defence Committee: what, the Minister will build the generals in a row at the end of the meeting table and will present them to us. Ivanov, Gen. Petrov, Gen. Petrov. Georgiev for commander, chief and so on. Then they will worship and then leave the Chamber. You do realize this is pointless, don't you? I ask one more question: if they don't introduce themselves, what happens when there are no deadlines for this performance and it can happen in three years? What's gonna happen? They've been assigned. They were given the respective title first, then they began to perform their duties, but they did not fulfill para. 3, which you want to enter. Will their orders be unlawful because the procedure has not been completed? Their management of funds and forces that are ordered to them will they be unlawful because they have not fulfilled para. 3 of the Law? Do you understand that this is an absolute legal non sens? And since you are talking to me about the Commission what it is, let me read to you, for a little patience I will ask you what it says in art. 28 of our Committees are doing what to make it clear to you, because we have started to fantasize here on the subject of the Commission's obligations. And I'm reading you will excuse me, but a little enlightenment seems to be needed by the MPs, because not all of them have clearly read it: Art. 28 (1) The Standing Committees shall examine bills, the annual programme under art. 118, draft decisions, declarations and addresses and other proposals distributed to them by the President of the National Assembly, draw up reports, proposals and opinions on them. Is there a representation of someone in front of someone around here? The Standing Committees may award under the conditions of art. 17 of the Financial Rules on the Budget of the National Assembly carrying out a follow-up assessment of the impact of the laws aimed at establishing their effectiveness and level of achievement of the objectives. (3) The Standing Committees shall, in accordance with their subject-matter, carry out periodic controls on the extent of absorption and on the appropriate and lawful spending of funds from the European Union funds and programmes. It's al. 3. Any introductions, anyone in front of anyone? I mean not by executive authority. I mean by the military, who are subordinate to the Chief of Defense, which is part of the Ministry of Defence, whose civil control is being carried out through the Minister and from here through us. The State authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration and the citizens are obliged to provide, upon request, all the information and documents as well as the opinions necessary for the work of the committee responsible. I mean, if you want something from the military, you can always demand it now without making any changes to the law? At the request of one third of the members of the committee, the Chair shall be obliged to make an immediate request to the state authorities and officials of the state and municipal administration to attend a meeting of the committee. Here's the way they might come. Why should we do things that are meaningless that have no legal consequences? We're putting into the law something that is, like, just like that, because someone liked it to be inside. Sounds beautiful. The generals will introduce themselves. We'll sit and watch them. I go on: The invited are obliged to appear before the committee and to provide them with the requested information and their names, including if we want to present them, because that will be what we want........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What do the committees do? At what point does it tell you that someone can and should introduce themselves? Or we will introduce a new point in the Rules for the Organization of Our Work, in which we will write: The Defence Officer accepts the presentation of the generalities. You see, this is ridiculous! It's ridiculous! And I don't understand what you're doing this for? What's the logic? The only logic is either to brush off the self-esteem of the Defence Committee, on which something is supposedly dependent on the personnel development of the officer's staff or, as I told you, you can deny it many times, try to lightly influence the president and tell him: "See what, you issued the decrees and appointed them, but we will also listen to them afterwards, and we will see them............................................. Therefore, this conclusion, which is in the Motives, because I have said that I am speaking on the Motives, this vague provision, which makes it difficult to recognise the meaning of it, I think that I have proved it so far, does not contribute to validating the rule of law. There are no provisions in the Law that do not have legal consequences that have a desirable character, which do not follow any positive consequences for our civil society. And finally try to tell you something that you might all know. The emancipation of the people's choice is the National Assembly, the emancipation of the National Assembly is the government. In government, we choose ministers. If we want to exercise control over the activity, spending the funds and policies that are being carried out in defence, they are carried out by hearing the Minister of Defence or the Government on these policies... how they will spend the money, what they will spend it on, what the goals are. The military staff, the military command, is the executive of these decisions as policies. They implement in practice the military policy that we, as MPs, the government, as an emancipation, and the Minister of Defence, as responsible for this activity, carry out. It is for these reasons that the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party for Bulgaria is not going to support this Law at third reading and we are solidarity with the veto of the President. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u45	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Replies to Mr. Ermenkov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The reasons expressed in substance do not correspond and do not correspond with the amendments and additions adopted by the National Assembly in the Law. The appointment of the Permanent Secretary of Defence, thereby increasing the requirements for taking up the post in terms of professional experience, rank as a civil servant of the persons who are candidates for the post, remaining the requirement for the candidate concerned to carry out a management position in the public administration, are extremely important. With regard to this part of the newly returned Law, the President sets out reasons that the increased requirements regarding the professional and management experience of candidates are not a guarantee of higher professionalism. I'm sorry, but the motives in this part are based on an unwarranted statement that does not essentially correspond to the rules of formal life logic. On the contrary, the introduction of higher requirements for professional experience, higher rank acquired in the state administration and experience of leadership in the state administration are a guarantee for the selection of candidates with higher professional experience and qualities for the occupation of the office of the Permanent Secretary of Defence. In essence, the status of the Permanent Secretary of Defense does not change. However, the requirements for candidates to take up the post shall be revised, with the National Assembly in this case seeking to ensure by legislative decisions that candidates possess high professional qualities and the necessary professional and management experience, including in the structures of the Ministry of Defence, are employed. In the current legal framework, unfortunately, there was no regulatory requirement for the applicant to have professional or management experience in the structures of the Ministry of Defence. The introduction of this requirement contrary to the arguments put forward in the ground for the return of the Law constitutes a prerequisite for the selection of candidates with professional and management experience in the field of defence. The current legal framework in this sense does not create sufficient regulatory guarantees regarding the requirements for professional and management experience in the relevant area. Regarding those we have heard, the aim is almost to legitimise the existing situation. In this case, in order to understand what was proposed and adopted, let us make an analogy with the Statute of the BSP. There is also a change that is not effective at the moment. It comes into effect shortly after what's normal, which makes sense. I'm talking about choosing a chairman. If these changes are introduced without being discussed without being accepted by people, they can achieve a negative result. Therefore, colleagues, compare the two views, compare the two cases and you will see that we have acted wisely in this case. § 3 of the returned for a new discussion of the National Assembly provides for the creation of para. 3 in art. 136 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act. Once again, the considerations set out in the President's Decree on the return of the Law are not relevant to the norm adopted by the legislator. According to the President, the adopted text creates a new phase in the procedure for the award of senior officer titles, which is being developed before the authority of the National Assembly, with the participation of the Minister. In an analysis of the norm adopted by the legislator and, accordingly, the reasons for the bill, it follows that it does not alter the present award procedure. Following the adoption of the revised norm, the actual composition of the award proceedings with a senior officer rank ends with the issuing of the President's Decree on a proposal from the Council of Ministers and, in this sense, the reasons set out in the President's Declaration on the Return of the Law are an attempt at a coup d'état interpretation and presentation of the lawmaker's will. The norm concerns a procedure which is a condition for carrying out the actual composition under art. 100, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. That is to say, it is a procedure for informing the National Assembly of already conducted proceedings, as a person obliged to inform the National Assembly is the Minister of Defence. In this case, it is not a matter of dislocation of constitutionally defined powers of the authorities of the State, as considerations are set out in the grounds for the return of the Law for a new discussion, insofar as no legislative changes are introduced in the award proceedings with a superior officer's rank. On the contrary, the presentation procedure, respectively informing the National Assembly, shall be carried out after the legal consequences of the President's Decree have already occurred. The President rightly notes in his motives the extremely significant public functions performed by the senior command staff of the army, but in view of the fact that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary management, an argument under art. 1 of para. 1 of the Constitution: the presentation of the officers awarded a higher military rank to the National Assembly is precisely an expression of recognition of the extremely significant public functions of the senior command staff of the Armed Forces. To the extent that the National Assembly and its Standing Committees are, to the fullest extent sovereign, the arguments for violating the rule of law through accepted additions are not valid. The argument is also unfounded that the presentation of information to the National Assembly on officers awarded with senior military titles is a form of violation of the rule of law and poses a risk of politicising the senior command of the Armed Forces. On the one hand, in itself, the claim that the presentation of information on official acts of government bodies before the National Assembly or its authorities constitutes a violation of the rule of law is not in line with the same principle given the form of government adopted by the basic Law. The claim regarding the risk of politicising the senior command of the Armed Forces is also unfounded. First of all, the information procedure is carried out after the issuance of the President's Decree. Next, there are representatives of all parliamentary represented political forces in the Defence Committee, which, in turn, guarantees that there will be no politicisation by any of the political forces present. The opinion that informing the National Assembly or its authorities of acts issued by the President does not find support in the Constitution is also incorrect in the context of the provision of art. 98, p. 1 which states that the President of the Republic informs the National Assembly on key issues within the scope of his powers. If it is accepted that, with the amendments adopted in the Law, the National Assembly aims to violate the rule of law and the balance of the powers of the institutions, is it clear that the powers of awarding officers of the highest military rank are not within the scope of the President's fundamental powers? Returning the Law, colleagues, for a new review... [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] PRESENT VALERI JABLYANOV: If you please, do not interfere with the speaker!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u47	... turns out to be an emotional act that no longer surprises anyone. Against the manifestations of emotions, subjectivism or other undesirable phenomena in the legislative process in the Constitution there is provided a safeguard mechanism and today's re-examination of the Law is just such a safeguard mechanism, a guarantee against the manifestation of subjectivism or emotions by an institution in the process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u48	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Come in for a speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I'm not talking by §1. I think there was enough reason for those who spoke before me. I will speak under § 3 and the reasons under § 3 to see what are the motives and objectives of the proposed Law. It should be clear that the Committee on Defence will present the newly produced senior officers' titles, colleagues who are new in quality and there, in addition to presenting themselves as individuals, as important and responsible people who will manage resources, there will also be presented as people who can say their vision, as people who will express their problems, the challenges that stand before the institutions that will work, before the formations that will govern, and will say what their goals and ambitions are. That's the point of the presentation. I think the Defence Committee is the right place for this because in the Defence Committee, which is an authority supporting the National Assembly, there are different parliamentary groups represented, but the Defence Committee is the body that will protect the Armed Forces and the National Assembly gives resources. The National Assembly is the authority that needs to know how these resources are managed and how the objectives will be achieved, namely more, better prepared troops, better armed forces to have maximum efficiency. Regarding the motives for politicizing the senior command staff in this way, I think there is a profound misunderstanding here. The senior command staff is politicized only when there are no fair democratic elections that provide opposition and ruling in parliament. If there is no opposition in parliament, then there is a danger of politicisation. I sincerely believe that there is opposition in our Parliament that it has not given up its ideas and does not allow anyone else to play the role of opposition. About whether it's a new phase. One is honor, another is representation. The introduction means something new, a new beginning of the base that can be stepped on and continued. When visions are presented, when ambitions are presented, when goals are presented, it is a new beginning and allows for more complete control afterwards to see where we are going and where we are going. The two words have nothing in common, they by their nature and content suggest different processes. After all, I believe that with the proposals tabled, with what we voted on on the 27th, we are creating conditions and ensuring that the senior officers will be represented, regardless of who is the President of the Commission, who are in the Commission, what they think about the issue. We create a norm and a framework in which we have to represent. What's wrong with the Commission being the senior officer? Do these people not deserve and need to be isolated and someone else there to rule them? Does everything have to happen in the dark? I think that with this act we will give visibility to the processes that flow in the Armed Forces, and this visibility will not only have it, because in the Ministry of Defence they are ruling, in the Council of Ministers they are ruling, but also the opposition. I think this is in the interest of a rule of law. After all, this is all within the framework of the Constitution, where in art. 1 says that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary rule. We do not want the National Assembly to abdicate these opportunities. On the contrary, the National Assembly must have opportunities and they must be provided legally, legally. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? [[Lowered noise in the hall.]] Mr. Ermenkov, come in. Colleagues, a little more patience to listen to the line!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Popov! I wouldn't take a line if there was a civilian voice here, because the subordination in the army isn't all clear to them and it's not always the same for the people. But when you say that in addition to knowing them by name, as it was at the beginning, and they will introduce themselves to us, we will listen to each one of them about the development of what he is interested in............................................................................. You understand that there is no way Parliament can interfere with the operational work of the commanders of our armed forces. There is no way we can talk about being a parliamentary republic and defending parliamentaryism with foolish actions. I'm sorry to say that to the generals at the Commission?! They have a subordination. The Minister of Defense is the one who conducts the policy that we form by law, the Chief of Defense is the one who conducts it in practice in the management of the troops. And when we talk about presentation, but with a hearing, it kind of starts to confirm the opinion that this is not the idea to meet, but to intervene in the powers of another institution. Thank you. [[Strong noise in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u52	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The time of the group is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u53	Colleagues, I know you don't like what I'm saying, but what to do about the truth always hurts!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u54	Please, Mr. Ermenkov! Are there any other lines to Mr. Popov's statement? I won't. A hole, Mr. Popov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u55	Mr. Ermenkov, of course you have the right to your opinion. And you were part of the armed forces, and I'm part of the armed forces, but I've always seen the officer as a man who can think alone and make a decision, not just as a performer. When it comes especially to a senior commander who is entrusted with enormous resources, his opinion is important. His opinion must be taken into account by his subordinates, but his opinion must also be taken into account by his commanders. I'll give you an example. Commander of the Air Force manages entrusted assets worth more than 2 billion. lv. How do you think the Chief of Defense will tell him what to do one by one? What about them, if they dictate to him, what's he there for?! I believe that we should pay respect to people who can think who have the courage to make a decision and who can stand firm not only in front of their subordinates but also in front of their commanders. [[Applause from GERB.]] Let us not underestimate the role of the senior officers and give them what they deserve and what they deserve, including in the Defence Committee. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I re-vote the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, adopted by the National Assembly on 27 September 2017. A minimum of 121 votes are required for its re-acceptance. They voted 211 MPs: 117, against 73, abstention 21. [[Loud noise. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] It wasn't accepted. Come in, Mr. Kirilov. [[Strong noise from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u58	Please order in the court! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u59	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I don't hear my voice, colleagues. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u60	We're about to find out. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please don't call from the gym and take your seats!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u61	Please, re-vote procedure. There are MPs who have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u62	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Revoting procedure. Vote 222 MPs: 131, against 71, abstention 20. [[Applause from GERB. Loud noise.]] The law has been reacquired. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OWNITY AND USE OF EARTHS OF EARTHS. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-52, submitted by the MPs Yordan Apostolov, Boris Yachev and Hristian Mitev on 5 September 2017, as well as the Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-61, submitted by the National Representative Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and the group of National Representatives on 21 September 2017, and the Law on the Amendment and Supplement of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-63, submitted by Zapreyan Vassilev Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Is there anyone from the Committee on Legal Affairs to present the report? The President of the Commission................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment Bill and Appendix to the Property and Use Act on agricultural lands No 754-01-52, imported by Yordan Apostolov Apostolov, Boris Yankov Yachev and Christian Radev Mitev On 5 September 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No At its meeting held on 13 September 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-52, submitted by Yordan Apostolov Apostolov, Boris Yankov Yachev and Hristian Radev Mitev on 5 September 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Petar Vutov, Director of the Department of Land Relations and Comas and Mrs. Zornitsa Trifonova. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Christian Mitev, who pointed out that it aims to protect the owners and users of agricultural land whose rights have been affected by the conclusion of lease contracts for foreign properties. The Law introduces the rule that lease and lease contracts on agricultural land should be concluded by owners, co-owners or by a person authorised by them. The project provides that the rental of agricultural land should only be allowed if this is explicitly agreed in the lease contract, in which case the tenant will be obliged to notify the landlord immediately. The Law extends the scope of the verification when validating the signatures of the parties to a lease or lease on agricultural land, which the notaries will carry out, and a sketch of the property will also be presented when the contract is entered. The bill establishes a special order concerning the existing cases of competition for leases on agricultural land concluded by non-owners, which provides for confirmation of a contract already entered by a declaration with a notary certification of the owner's signature submitted within one month of the entry into force of this Law. It is envisaged that the fees for notarial certification of the signature of the parties when entering into a lease or lease on agricultural land, as well as the declaration of confirmation, are to be determined without regard to the material interest certified. The bill also provides for amendments to the Agricultural Landing Act, which are in line with the spirit of the proposed amendments. The discussion was attended by the MPs Yordanka Fikirliyska, Yavor Notev, Krum Zarkov and Danail Kirilov, who expressed their support for the proposed Bill. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for abstentions and non-restraints proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land No 754-01-52, submitted by Yordan Apostolov Apostolov, Boris Jankov Yachev and Hristian Radev Mitev on 5 September 2017. Mr. President, if I may, I would like to invite the Vice-President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mrs. Atanasova to read the next report on the other two bills.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u65	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Amendment Bill and Appendix to the Property and Use Act on agricultural land No 754-01-61 imported by Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs on 21 September This Decision shall and Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-63, submitted by Zapreyan Vassilev Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017. At its meeting held on 4 October 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mrs. Vergina Krasteva Deputy Minister, Mrs. Zornitsa Trifonova Councilor of the Minister, and Mrs. Lilia Stoyanova Head of Department at the Department of Land Relations and Comasation. A bill to amend and supplement the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land was presented by Mr. Krum Zarkov, who pointed out that the Law establishes a register of owners and users of agricultural land and imposes on the owners an obligation for timely notification in the event of changes. He pointed out that it provides for the publicity of the systematized information on agricultural land in land and in business years, as well as the obligation to send card material about the properties, information about their owners and due rent payment. In line with the objectives of the Bill, changes are also proposed in the Agricultural Landing Act, which introduces the requirement to present a sketch of the property when entering the lease contract. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-63 was presented by Mr. Altimir Adamov, who noted that the proposed changes introduce a special legal order to guarantee the rights of the owners in the management of their own agricultural land and lay down the rules regarding the contracts already concluded. He added that the Draft Law lays down persons who may rent agricultural land, including persons who have the right to use or have the right to manage, and enables the rehire of agricultural land in the presence of an explicit clause in the lease contract, and the tenant is obliged to notify the landlord and the municipal agriculture office concerned in writing within three days of the rehire of the agricultural land. Mr. Adamov drew attention to the requirement for notary certification of the content and signatures of the parties when authorising and when concluding a lease contract on agricultural land for a period longer than one year, stressing the possibility of official deletion of the lease contracts on agricultural land concluded until the new requirements have entered into force, when they have not been confirmed by the owner or by those holding more than 50 per cent of the ideal parts of the co-owners. It is also emphasized on the change in the amount of the cash payment of the agricultural land purchased by tender from the State Land Fund, enabling the winner to pay 40 per cent of the tender price by cash and the remaining The draft law also provides for amendments to the Law on the lease in agriculture, the Law on the Cadastral and Property Register and the Law on Cooperatives, which aim to align the regime when renting and renting agricultural land. The Cadastral and Property Register Act provides for the provision of remote access to the information system of the Cadastral and Property Register, both in notary proceedings and for the needs of municipal agriculture services in relation to their registration of agricultural land use contracts. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 18 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstentions, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on ownership and use of agricultural lands No 754-01-61, submitted by Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs on 21 September 2017; - with 18 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstentions, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on ownership and use of agricultural lands No 754-01-63, submitted by Zapreyan Vassilev Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u67	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. From the importers? Here you are, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I will present to you the reasons for the Bill for amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, which we have imported, and I will ask you to support it. The submitted bill offers protection to owners and users of agricultural land whose rights are affected by schemes to control the use of large agricultural areas through the conclusion of lease contracts for foreign properties. The scheme itself is based on the fact that the existing Decree does not prohibit the conclusion of lease contracts by non-owners. And, secondly, no verification of the ownership of the property and the rights of the landlord shall be carried out on the registration in the Registry Office. The legal bases thus created are involved in the coma and use of agricultural arrays by applying for support under the schemes and measures of the common agricultural policy. At the same time, the owner may have processed the land and found himself deprived of the goods. The contracts concluded shall be in writing with a notary endorsement of the signatures and shall be entered in the Registry Office. The landlord and the tenant are related persons within the meaning of the Commercial Law and the term of these contracts is 3 years in accordance with the limited powers of persons who can act under ordinary property management as required by art. 229 of the TDC. The landlords are not owners and have no other rights to property, but nevertheless conclude contracts for thousands of acres of agricultural land throughout the country. For some of the properties under these contracts, the municipal agriculture services have registered leases or leases concluded by landlords who are their users or owners. Another part have the status of the so-called white spots under art. 37, para. 3, p. 2 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, they constitute land for which the owners have not granted the use of a contractual basis and have not submitted a statement on the form of management and the manner of permanent use for the business 2017/2018 by 31 July. At present, these contracts are submitted for registration to the land ownership authorities under Decree No 49 of 2004 on the maintenance of the map of the restored property. They are also requested for support under the various measures I have listed above. The competition of the legal bases is manifested in the formation and distribution of arrays for the purposes of the law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and its Rules, as well as in the provision of payments under the schemes of the measures of the common agricultural policy under the Law on the support of farmers and under Decree No 5 of February 2009 on the terms and conditions and arrangements for the submission of applications under schemes and measures for direct payments. The rights of owners and users who have applied for the settlement of their relationships are affected, valid contractual forms for the use of agricultural land such as annual leases, contract for joint processing. They are under the Law on Cooperatives, which are not subject to notary certification and entry into the Office in the entries. These mechanisms ensure fair access to agricultural land, successfully implemented for years, are preferred by small owners and users because they relate to less administrative costs and are eligible by the Law. With the entry of the contracts concluded by a non-owner these contracts under the order of art. 112 (b) The property law shall disclose the existence of a burden on the property of a bond nature which arose without the knowledge and consent of the owner and despite his will. The lease contracts are not opposed to the owners of agricultural land, but to restore the actual legal situation and eliminate the announced burden on their property owners find themselves involved in competitive legal proceedings............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. By countering these formally eligible contractual practices which adversely affect the rights of owners and users of agricultural land, the Project proposes amendments to the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, in the Law on the Rendation, in the Law on the Support of Farmers in the Part concerning the Contracts for the Use of Agricultural Land. There are both requirements for persons who can conclude contracts for the use of agricultural land and enhanced control measures, for compliance with the requirements of notaries, judges of the entries and municipal agriculture services. It is explicitly a rule that the lease and lease contracts on agricultural land should be concluded by co-owners, owners or by persons authorised by them. It is also proposed that, where the property is co-owned, the lease may be concluded by co-owners holding more than 25% of the shares in the co-ownership or authorised by them. Relations between co-owners shall be settled according to art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. It should be noted that, in an award of the general lease regime under the Law on Obligations and Contracts, in which the rehire without the consent of the landlord is permissible, if not agreed otherwise, the project provides for the rehire of agricultural land to be allowed if this is explicitly stated in the contract, in which case the tenant is obliged to notify the landlord in writing. With the new version of art. 3, para. 4 of the Agricultural Landing Act explicitly requires the lease contract to be concluded by the owner, specifying the text of the sentence first on authorisation. The aim is to confirm the possibility for the lease of agricultural land to be concluded by an authorised person by the co-owners who own more than 50 percent of the ideal parts of the joint property and not only by a co-owner authorised by co-owners holding a total of more than 50 percent of the ideal parts of that property. It also extends the scope of checking the notary in the conclusion of lease contracts and leases when the signatory of the parties is certified to check the landlord, respectively the tenant, meeting the requirements laid down for persons who can conclude contracts for the use of agricultural land. The rule is that the notary fee is determined regardless of the material interest, meaning we want to introduce a simple fee. It is also intended to require sketches when entering a lease and lease. A ban is explicitly introduced on the municipal agriculture office to register contracts concluded by non-owners. For the authorisation of competition arising from the lease contracts for foreign properties in the use of the land, a special order shall be established for the confirmation by the owners of the lease contracts entered in the Registry Office on their properties, such as the lease contracts not concluded by them or by persons authorised by them. The confirmation is required with a written declaration of the owner with a notary certification of the signature to the registration services within one month of the entry into force of the law. The legal consequence of the non-submitting of the declaration within the time limit shall be the deletion of the entry at the request of the Director of the Regional Directorate of Agriculture at the location of the property by the Judge of the Registry, respectively, of the registration of the Land Property Authority. For rental contracts with a period of one year, a declaration shall only be submitted to the municipal agriculture office. The fee for notary certification of the declaration shall not also be linked to the material interest in order not to create an additional financial burden preventing the application of the procedure. In connection with the immediate effect of the Law and for the 2017/2018 business year, it is proposed that the non-executors, until the entry into force of this Law, legal proceedings on appeals against the refusals of municipal agriculture services to register contracts concluded by persons who are not owners or co-owners of the property, are not subject to the contracts, nor are they authorised to manage them, be immediately terminated. The aim is to create a security production with the participation of the owner of the agricultural land under a lease concluded by a non-owner, with the application of which in short time to create clarity in the land relations. No additional financial and other means are necessary for the implementation of the Project. The expected result of the implementation of the project is increasing the protection of property rights and the rights to use agricultural properties in accordance with the special constitutional status of agricultural land and the modern stage of the development of land relations. In conclusion, I ask you again to support this Law in order to prevent any attempts and fraud that have occurred on the territory of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. The second bill will be presented by Svetla Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present to you the bill that the BSP proposes for the amendment of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. It is a reaction to the problems that were created in 2017 with the so-called fake contracts and covered regions in Northwestern Bulgaria, as well as many districts in the North and Central Region. Turns out, there's a loophole in the law that gives you that opportunity. With our bill, we address, above all, the need for municipal agriculture and forest services, that is, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to make the necessary changes, the necessary registers to create a legal opportunity for these abuses to be identified in the registration of the treaties and the legal grounds for their use and to remove the problems accordingly at the level of the municipal service. What we propose is to create a target register that corresponds between owners of agricultural land and also users. We are aware that in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry there are such registers, there are six of them, but none of them has any up-to-date information about who the owners of agricultural land are. And why is there no up-to-date information about the owners of agricultural land? Firstly, so far many of the leases and leases have not required 50% of all owners to agree. In other words, one owner could conclude a contract on behalf of all co-owners. Henceforth the contradictions in those who own land, the lack of information creates problems in paying the rents. In my case, there are cases where landowners move from 10-15 to 80-85, only one, entering into a contract, in practice deprives all other co-owners of the possibility that they will also take part in the decision on how to dispose of land. Rehire, overendowment of land is permitted. Again, the owner is not aware in most cases, although the contract may have a formal basis that such a case is possible, is not aware who is the man - the tenant who processes their land. That means we're losing the owner again as the person who needs to know what's going on with his property. There are many cases in practice when one of the landowners makes a donation, even in perfect parts, the other co-owners are not aware, the whole land is processed by the one who received the donation accordingly. This is also a serious problem that is common in practice. Last but not least, there is absolutely no link between the Registry Agency and the Municipal Services...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, we hold and propose that this target register be up-to-date and correspond to the owner. The other thing we propose is that this information register for the relevant year should be public, that is to say that it should be presented and that each owner should have access to see the up-to-date information on who is processing its land. It is proposed that by August 5th the municipal agriculture services prepare this systematized information based on the filed contracts for legal basis in their lands and ensure the publicity of this information. The experience we have from the observations of various municipal services shows that the information about the owners generally has a limited range of farmers. If in one land you have 150-200 land users, usually one or two have access to this information. The rest are either very difficult to find, or they don't have the opportunity at all. In addition, the Law proposes a change of the Landing Act, with the entry of the rent contracts necessarily requiring a sketch of the properties. Within three months of the entry into force of the Law, the tenants who have already entered their contracts, but without sketches, must do what is necessary to present the sketches. A debate is held here in the Committee on Agriculture and Food whether or not there should be sketches. We believe that the presentation of a sketch in the conclusion of a lease contract is absolutely necessary. Why? The Cadastral and Property Register Act was amended in 2016. According to these changes, all of the information on the recovered property card had to go to the Cadastral Agency. The Cadastral Agency's deadline was by 2020, possibly with the absorption of European funds, to deal with this difficult task, all the more so that there are a lot of factual errors in the property recovery card and mechanical application in the Cadastral will create extremely big problems. But notice: in 2016 on registered 20 million legal bases in the country by municipal services for 12 million properties, only 18% have cadastral maps, that is, for only 18% of these properties it is possible the sketch to be accessed to the notaries so that they can use it accordingly, 81% information is from the restored property map. Therefore, until we have an up-to-date cadastral in the country that corresponds to landowners, as required by the Law, the sketch is a necessary element of the contractual system and will prevent quite a large part of the violations that were registered in 2017. In addition, the information contained in the sketch, which is issued, also contains what is the way of permanent use. We therefore propose that the way of permanent use should not be required for a whole year by the municipal services, because it is simply written in the sketch whether the land is an orchard, whether it is a level. This is clear enough and clear enough for the municipal service to do its job with regard to gathering information about this indicator. To conclude, like my colleague, I call on you to adopt our bill by trying to limit ourselves only within the framework of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. The only thing we propose is that the municipal services based on information registers, which was highlighted as one of GERB's priorities in working with municipalities, should the information systems be adequate, to ensure that these services create opportunities to implement a transparency policy with regard to owners, as well as the lease and lease contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u71	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. On the third bill, the importers? Before we acquainted you with the motives of the importer, honourable Members, on 15 September last year with a decision of the 43rd National Assembly 19 October was declared a Day of Bulgarian-Hungarian Friendship. In this regard, a delegation from our colleagues from the Hungarian Parliament is on an official visit. They're up on the balcony right now. The delegation is led by the Vice-President of Parliament Mrs Martha Matrai. [[People's representatives rise up and applaud the delegation.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, with the so proposed amendments to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land, it is intended to introduce a special legal order to guarantee the rights of owners in the management of their own agricultural land, as well as to achieve legal certainty with regard to the signed contracts. The amendment provides that the lease contracts on agricultural land are to be concluded only by the owner or by an authorised person; by a person who has rights on agricultural land, including in its content the power to use or manage the land provided by the owner or by an authorised person; by an owner or co-owner of agricultural land or by a person who, as relations between co-owners, is governed by art. 30, para. 3 of the Property Act. In this way, greater legal protection of ownership of agricultural land will be ensured. It is often in these legal relations that conflicts arise between the owners and the users of these lands on a different legal basis leading to disputes concerning the right to use land. In order to optimally manage the areas used and protect the interests of all stakeholders, including owners and users of agricultural land, an amendment to art. 37b. The proposal provides for the introduction of common conditions as regards registration and legal basis on the basis of contracts concerning land use, in the event of different contracts with the same subject-matter of negotiation, the same estates with notary certification of signatures and content which are entered in the Registry Offices of the Registry Agency and those without notar certification and are not entered but comply with the requirements of the legislation. We believe that the proposals made will lead to the creation of legal certainty in terms of renting out and using agricultural land. In the current legal framework, the contracts for free properties from the state and municipal land fund, which fall within the agricultural land use array under an agreement/distribution under the order of art. 37c of the Property and Use of Agricultural Land Act are one year old and are concluded at a higher price than the highest auction price reached at the Land Land of the State Land Fund and the amount of the average annual rent payment for the land concerned. However, in practice, land use contracts from the State Land Fund after auction are often concluded with the second rated candidate who has offered at least 90% of the highest auction price. In this respect, the amendment of art. 37c is fully in line with the objectives of the existing contracts for the respective land and market price of the area. Paragraph 5 of the Transitional and Final Provisions provides for the possibility that contracts for the rental of agricultural land concluded before the entry into force of this Act may be validated by the owner or co-owners with a declaration to be submitted to the municipal agriculture services in order to maintain the registration. The Agricultural Landing Act provides for a waiver on the basis of the Decree on the terms and conditions of registration of the lease contracts, which is replaced by rules established by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. This will achieve greater flexibility and uniformity of the registration regime of rental contracts with the one provided for in this Project. It shall be possible for lease contracts to be concluded both by an owner, co-owner of agricultural land whose ownership is more than 50 per cent of the ideal parts of the co-owner's property or authorised by the owner or co-owners holding a total of more than 50 per cent of the ideal parts of the co-owner's property, a person not necessarily from the circle of co-owners. This creates greater freedom in the choice of the authorised person. An opportunity shall be introduced, if agreed in the contract, for the tenant to be able to transfer agricultural land under lease or part thereof, for which it is required within three days to notify in writing the landlord or municipal agriculture services where the property is located. About the proposed amendments to art. 305, para. 5 of the Law on ownership and use of agricultural land, namely for owners of mortgage compensation bonds, with which they are compensated for their non-refundable agricultural land under the Law, the sale of agricultural land by the State Land Fund provides an opportunity for persons compensated by mortgaged compensation bonds according to their business interest to participate in the auctions and purchase land from the State Land Fund or to realise them by selling them on the market of compensatory instruments through investment firms. In view of the long period during which tenders for the sale of land from the State Land Fund with owners of mortgage compensation bonds were carried out at all levels, the resources of these compensatory instruments are already limited and their holders, who are currently willing to purchase land, are difficult to pay the price of the property with their available bonds. Therefore, they have to trade on the market with investment firms where the value of the bonds is much higher. In addition, it should be borne in mind that those auctions are already eligible for compensation records and housing compensatory records with which the holders of the mortgage compensation bonds will compete at the tender. Therefore, we consider it appropriate to raise a certain amount of 20% of the proposed price to be paid with cash to 40% and to pay the rest of the amount to 60% with all types of compensatory instruments. In this way, more revenue will also take place in the state budget in the sale of agricultural land by the State Land Fund, as the compensatory instruments are non-refundable and they do not give rise to revenue in the budget. The Cadastral and Property Register Act provides for the provision of remote access to the Cadastral Information System and the property register of municipal agriculture services in view of their functions in registering agricultural land use contracts for land use, for which there is an approved cadastral map or cadastral register. The Law on Cooperatives currently concludes contracts for the joint processing of agricultural land only by member co-operators for their own property or for the corresponding share of the property where they are co-owners. On the one hand, the information about the co-operators is not available to the municipal agriculture services to assess the registration of the relevant legal basis and, on the other hand, there is often a conflict between the lease or lease with the joint processing contract without the owner or co-owner being a co-operator. The proposal to record the contracts aims at publicising the information and preventing abuse of rights granted in this Law. Colleagues, I appeal to you in this way for the bill to amend and supplement the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land to be supported in all of its parts, as we have all witnessed abuse and damage to the owners of agricultural land in the conclusion of the treaties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u73	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Colleagues, the debate will stay after the break. It's 11:30. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u74	Colleagues, please take your seats. We continue with the Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. They've gone over the importers' motives. Statements? Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u75	Madam President, honourable Members! Allow me in my speech to pay attention and to focus on the proposals in the Drafts of colleagues Yordan Apostolov and Zapriyan Yankov on the issues that are being raised and their decisions. We understand and accept that these two bills are trying to resolve issues related to ordering and an opportunity to avoid abuses, not only what happened, but also in the future. Both bills include certain procedures and rules which the Registry Agency, notaries must fulfil as their obligation in order to minimise errors in the registration of contracts. The municipal services are included as an arbitrator. In both bills, however, there are two opposing decisions on how the municipal services should respond to such cases. It is said that in two contracts where the owner and the user are respectively duplicated, registration of these contracts is suspended. In the case of colleagues from GERB, the option is that the municipal services, although the contracts have been duplicated, should therefore be assessed by the municipal office itself in order to be able to determine which contract should be entered. Fellow Members, this poses quite serious dangers in municipal services, becoming a final arbitrator, to create conditions for decision-making that will not be in the interests of owners or other users. In any event, it is necessary for arbitration to be principled on the basis of all contracts to be provided must be on the table, all users having a corresponding duplication of contracts must be invited in order to be able to clarify which of the contracts is respectively legitimate. Only then can we proceed to the next decision, because I imagine cases in which the procedure that is first entered into court is of leading importance, but it may not answer, have false information about who is the owner, as it turned out in the contracts in Lom and Vratsa. So this assessment is extremely difficult for the municipal services and their arbitration, which I accept should happen, but not in the way it is proposed. Colleagues from GERB other than the change of the Property Act related to the creation of order in the registration of the legal bases of the contracts, there are also many other proposals that do not concern the specific case on which these bills were submitted to the National Assembly. I believe that they should give up these proposals, for the simple reason that every year a change to, for example, the Property Act, which concerns the changes of the Compensatory Bonds, by whether 20 or 40% and who has established it, seems to me a topic that requires a slightly deeper analysis. If they have decided, however, to have a national tender for the sale of land by the State Land Fund, they must state both the reasons and the expectations and the financial parameters of this proposal to offer land by the State Land Fund. In addition, colleagues from GERB offer a case, which probably in the municipal services and the Ministry of Agriculture decide that it is a problem of the category of waste animals to drop the horses. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the last parliament, this category of animals was included in the opportunity to participate in the distribution of meadows and pastures respectively. Now we're saying they can't because there's been abuse. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Law on Animal Health has transporters that register with the Regional Directorates of the Food Agency, that is, support is not possible if these animals are not in the registration system. For eight thousand numbers of animals in the system to make another change in the way they are given meadows and pastures, it seems to me that again we do not have enough good justification. What colleagues have written in their motives does not correspond to the truth and the reality in terms of the procedures applied to the provision of meadows and pastures, as stated in the Bill. I strongly object to the proposal that the co-operation contracts, according to the Co-operatives Act, be entered. Why? Dear colleagues, in the Law on Cooperatives............................................................................................. 31 you offer, you have co-operators in each cooperative. They have share contributions. Apart from that, each co-operator member, in addition to the initial and share contributions, may participate with its own land in the cooperative. And there are three options: firstly, the co-operator himself to lend under lease or lease to a cooperative or other natural persons the land, to process it independently and use production services from the cooperative, and the third to provide for joint processing of the cooperative with a written contract, notice, a written contract is the obligation that is not subject to notary certification and entry. You say that the co-operators, these joint operations contracts should also be entered in the court. In this way, one of the small privileges of the cooperatives will become a problem in terms of managing this process. The co-operator himself provides the land for joint processing, respectively he receives rent for this land within the relevant contracts that are scheduled and, moreover, that in 2007 the Cooperatives Act abandoned the possibility for cooperatives to overearn land. I would like to draw attention to this, this will be another wrong step and an attack on cooperatives, not only agricultural cooperatives, but also consumer cooperatives, which also have this problem. Either way, the Law on Cooperatives is a framework law, and our proposal is to withdraw this text from the importers because it will create unprecedented problems. Moreover, so far, no cooperative has had a problem with its land registration, there is not even just a duplication of the areas, but also a re-covering of these areas, so my proposal seems premature, thoughtless. In addition, it is not agreed with the nationally represented organisations, it is the National Consumer Union and the Union of Agricultural Cooperatives. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u76	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Replies to Professor Bachvarova's statement? I can't see. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u77	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday the Council of Ministers adopted a decision which raised many questions, which is: a declaration of the obstruction of the Bulgarian-Turkish border for a strategic site for national security. Many questions arise: why is this being done, what will the results be, and what is the purpose? Is this trying to hide information, and it would be unsuccessful to remind that Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov with one helicopter and journalists flew the entire fence and it was shot and shown. Prime Minister Boyko Borisov spending on the fence Mr. Orban, Mr. Cameron, a number of European leaders, and this fence was shown. Moreover, it was pride for the government and it was a reason to insist on our accession to Schengen because we are well guarding the European border. From this place in the National Assembly several times ministers of several Cabinets exported information about the funds spent, about companies and public procurement, about the results, about the shortcomings in the construction of this facility. Valeri Simeonov accused Elena Yoncheva, but the prosecution refused to file a case for her release of classified information. We ask: what now requires this facility to be declared an object of national security? We find some answers, for example, in yesterday's speech by Mr. Gerdjikov, who is chairman of the Legal Council of Parliament, in front of a television station asking him if he could broadcast footage after this decision about the facility, and Mr. Gerdjikov's advice to this television station is: We ask: does this mean that we, too, the MPs, can no longer put these questions here, we cannot show facts, we cannot put the ministers under parliamentary control on this subject, because the fence is a strategic object for national security? We're asking! We ask: Can the control authorities in Bulgaria and the European authorities receive information about the money spent, the quality of the fence, the migratory flows and so on? I remind you that European funds have also been spent on the construction of the fence. We ask: the report aired by the Air Force, which says: "Corrupted representatives of the Bulgarian authorities help migrants cross the border with Turkey on the way to Europe. "Is this also a violation of national security? We only ask questions. We ask ourselves: and why is this decision now taken, after so many facts have been made, after publicity? What is the purpose of this occupation? Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable journalists! I declare that I am taking all political and criminal responsibility, if any, for what I will say in the coming minutes, and that is: for us the reason, just yesterday and thus to take this decision, is the fact that for three months Elena Yoncheva has been filming footage, talking to witnesses, gathering documents that implicate corruption officials, filming in real time passing organized groups of migrants, talking to witnesses, and this film shows a fallen fence, open shafts, crossing without control with stairs and under the fence. For these actions, a fellow MP from the same district called it: Elena is circling like a fox in a cage, I quote. Two days ago I inform the people's representation and Bulgarian citizens, MP Elena Yoncheva, investigative journalist Elena Yoncheva was stopped and she was forbidden access to free territory of the Bulgarian state, where she is the MP from the Border Police. And yesterday, after the decision of the Council of Ministers, her visit there was almost a threat that she would reveal secrets of national security and would be criminally responsible for it. Therefore, at the moment we talk about anticorruption legislation, ladies and gentlemen, about you, expressed through the mouth of Tsetska Tsacheva, corruption is not always a crime. But for the government of Boyko Borisov since yesterday the fight against corruption is a crime and it may be if you change and the Law on classified information, which we are sure you will make this second step a crime from the worst against national security. Freedom to ask, to show the truth, to talk about corruption will now be a crime, and against national security, if you change this Law too. We ask you: What is a threat to national security? Corruption or freedom to speak, think and ask, corruption or the right to tell the truth about this corruption? Until now, censorship, honourable journalists, and I address you, has been a threat that you will be released from your chairs, that they will pass through you as they can. We were referred to as an investigative journalist who was called a slanderer, we were sent to Siberia, other colleagues were called a cockroach who would be crushed. This aggression, this hatred escalates to ban the freedom to think, to ask, to ask for the truth, and not only to forbid it, to turn it into a crime if we allow it to happen. Dear Bulgarians, this is a denial of our highest and strongest human right to be free people. This is an attack on free speech, on journalism and is an emancipation of everything that has happened in recent months. The ban on freedom and free speech has been raised to the highest rank of state policy by a ruling of the Council of Ministers. We, from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, will not allow this. That is why we want immediately the resignation of Mr. Radev, who submitted this proposal and Valeri Simeonov as Deputy Prime Minister. Secondly, I declare on behalf of the entire parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u78	Guys, please keep your voice down!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u79	... I declare on behalf of the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria that you cannot stop us, that we will invite all European ambassadors and provide them with the footage of this film and the documents that implicate the government in corruption, with two addresses to them: check how your European funds are spent and how the Schengen border is protected, the border, not yet Schengen. One. And secondly, we also appeal to you: both we and you, to guard one of the main pillars of our common European home, freedom of speech, freedom to think, to tell the truth, to ask questions. Thirdly, I also announce on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria that we are all co-authors of the footage, documents and film of Elena Yoncheva. We're gonna broadcast it and we're ready to take that responsibility. Mr. Borisov, I am addressing you, we will inform you specifically when and where this film will be broadcast, and we expect you to send us to be arrested by 80 MPs from BSP for Bulgaria. And lastly...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u80	Time, Mrs. Ninova. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u81	...We announce a citizen's signature, every Bulgarian citizen, who is about being a free man, is invited by Elena Yoncheva to be co-author of this film and to join us on the day, at the hour when it is broadcast to see the truth both for the management of Boyko Borisov and to defend the highest and most valuable human right to be free people.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u82	Your time is up, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u83	Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u84	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u85	Mrs. Chairman! It is really unpleasant to do this procedure again in the manner of conduct, because when there is a Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group, there must be at least a minimum order and sensitivity in this House, because the things that an entire parliamentary group wants to say to the House and to journalists, and hence to all people, are important. All this time, we couldn't figure out half of the noise statement in this part of the room. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I understand, Madam President, that they are your coalition partner, but this does not change the rules, and nothing will change the truth. Nothing will change the truth that these things that have just been heard from this tribune are extremely important to us and Bulgarian citizens. Exactly the way we're leading it, because we couldn't hear them. And I want to argue why? Because these things are a continuation of that confession by that nationalist activist who made an agreement with the court, admitting that she was involved in an immigration channel. [[Applause from DPS.]] There's the way to this channel. Do you understand that your coalition partners are in this game and we, from the DPS, will support all efforts, regardless of the BSP or whoever, to reveal this truth to both Bulgarian citizens and our European partners. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. On behalf of a parliamentary group, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We understand that declarations become a way of avoiding people's problems. And today, society is more interested in what the 2018 draft budget will be, what will be the policies that the government will make, and the support that will be formed by the parliamentary majority. I wouldn't fall to the level of talking about things that don't match the truth, or misleading both the media and those who will watch this news. Because it will in no way limit the possibility for the person who has any criminal record to refer to the relevant competent authorities. And that is why, Mrs. Ninova, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP parliamentary group, refer to the competent authorities when you have sufficient evidence. Because this is the institutional approach and this is how it fits as the behavior of the MPs. It's very easy to go out here and talk nonsense. It is very easy to go out here and recall a decree of the Council of Ministers with a decision when they have limited the possibility and have turned the highway of Trakia into a national site. You do understand that all this is untenable as a statement you made a moment ago? And no one, in any way, will limit the possibility of any MP or if you can take all these 80 MPs, to go and refer to the competent authorities, as you have done for each particular case, when you have had enough information. But you love more to make a media presence, to say the truth, to create false news and to think that you can thus be an alternative to future governance. Just to say that in the 2017 draft budget, which is currently being implemented, in 2016 the government of Boyko Borisov envisaged an increase in the cost of the Fund of Work pay of 120 million. lv. The 2018 draft budget, which I hope will be submitted to Parliament very soon, is foreseen to 720 million. lv. more expenses. [[Applause from GERB.]] . This, fellow Members of the BSP, is not to increase the deficit in which you are masters, but simply to have a deficit for 2018 below 1%. This increase in Bulgarian citizens' incomes with this money will be six times more comparable to 2016. I believe that this is the future policy that we should make the MPs and discuss and argue policies. Because the expenditure the government will make for 2018 will be more than 2.5 billion. As far as these calls are concerned, please, Madam President, since there has been a procedural proposal from colleagues in the House of Rights and Freedoms to have silence, please note to those who want to break discipline and to have noise in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u88	Of course, Mr. Tsvetanov, I will.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u89	Because I want to hear and the these things that I want to say, so there is no procedure and no interpretation of what I've been meaning to say. Just to let you know that smuggling in the period when you were only running two years ago was 34%. Just so you know, this year's contraband is down to 7%. Isn't that the fight against corruption? [[Applause from GERB]] . Isn't this a struggle to have more revenue in the budget? Because these 2.5 billion, which will be made as expenditures for 2018, this is money based on economic growth, which our country will report at the end of the year around 4%. Unfortunately for you, such news could not be there, but you then, and now all you do is create false news and say that you are an alternative. The alternative is when you propose politics. The alternative is when you've had the opportunity to manage, to show that you have more revenue and you can make more expenses, but not to indebt the generations that come after us. What the parliamentary majority is doing, what we are looking for as supporters in this parliamentary support...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u90	Please be quiet, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u91	...is to actually be able to unite our efforts for policies that reach people. We do this, we keep doing this, and that's what we've always done. As far as the case is concerned, which you said about the United Patriarchs, in their procedural inquiry, I believe that everyone has the responsibility to the Bulgarian institutions, and when someone has committed a violation, he gets the appropriate judgment. But when there are MPs from a parliamentary group who give us an example of morality and the fight against corruption, and we see that they are financing their campaign with people who are holding back [[Applause from GERB]] as organized criminal groups, please let us be with this archin, which must be for some responsible MPs. And here I just want to tell you that I am very interested in why no one is talking about the way campaign funding was conducted in both the parliamentary elections and the presidential campaign? Because, ladies and gentlemen, [[Applause from GERB]] , notice and conclude each of these campaigns how it was conducted and what the respective donors were. Because you will see that donors have always been under BGN 450 to avoid declaration and that there may actually be other behind-the-scenes things that may enable some to enter into power. The parliamentary group of GERB, the MPs, all the campaigns we have done have been funded with a clear source. It's the subsidy he gets. [[noise and lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u92	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u93	...and GERB, the subsidy that has received all parliamentary represented groups, and be able to actually make a transparent campaign, to know that every MP who has entered here in Parliament, the party has taken the appropriate responsibility, and has given this credit of trust and they give it to their voters, and these are our employers. Therefore, please let these declarations, when we leave the parliamentary platform, be arranged, be clear and see either the alternative as management, or give reasonable proposals that can be discussed, and we of the GERB parliamentary group have proved that we can be with an open hand for any good idea that is in the interests of the state and society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. We continue with a statement on the Bill. Any other speeches? Mr. Baychev said a statement. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u95	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today we are looking at three bills to amend the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, which means that each of the parliamentary groups realizes that there is a problem in the implementation of this Law and offers its vision to clear these problems by affecting different aspects. We at BSP have made an offer under art. 37b, as the main task that we have set ourselves, is to have transparency, comparability and accuracy of information in municipal services and that which is enjoyed by the owners of agricultural land and the respective user. That is why we propose the creation of a separate "Primary Register" we have named it. This Register offers protection against abuse and harmonisation of legislation in the protection of the interests of owners, and in the next place, to agricultural land users whose rights have been affected by a criminal scheme to control the use of large agricultural areas through the conclusion of a foreign property contract. All this happened due to the fact that on the last day of the 43rd National Assembly there were 101 MPs present and 99 votes for the attendance were removed the requirement to present a sketch when concluding a lease contract for more than three years, and the motive for this change is to remove the administrative burden on the people. At the same time, using this removal and exemption from the administrative burden, a group of people and then a judgment of the Court of Justice at the end of July, where it was declared that the land was designated as special property and entered into the hypotheses of Articles 228 and 229 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, by which this Law gives a right for an owner to enter into a lease on agricultural land, in this way, several places in the country were wronged, as this criminal scheme between a related tenant and a landlord was developed and the subsequently developed contract of mass leases for the so-called white spots could not be concluded, as it would become clear in one inspection of the Agency on the entries that there was a burden on this property, i.e. a lease or rent contract. This particular register, as we call it, must correspond between the owner of the agricultural land and the one processing it accordingly. There is no such register at this time and such problems are created precisely because there is no way for those who use the land in any form to contact landowners on any legal basis. We therefore propose that, when a farmer goes and presents a contract, whatever it is, whether for rent or rent, this contract be in line with the legal basis that the owner of the agricultural land will also be in the register of the Ministry of Agriculture. That is, if there is no comparability between the contract co-owner and owner, then both parties shall be informed whether the information is really up to date or not. Here we can further develop this thesis, as a false document is actually presented and the one presenting this document falls under the blows of the Penal Code. On the other hand, the person presenting a false document uses European means of subsidisation. This register must keep up-to-date information continuously and therefore the Ministry of Agriculture has its capacity to implement such a register. Furthermore, the publicity of this information is extremely important. We suggest that it be presented accordingly, so that each owner or user really has information about where his property is, who processes it and on what grounds does this property process it? It is essential to have a sketch when concluding the contract. With the current legislation in force in the event of a real estate transaction - agricultural land, the new notary act shall be entered only in the Registry Agency and the new owner shall not be obliged in any way to do so in the Land Commission. This enables unscrupulous users or persons to take advantage of the documents at their disposal and to provide them again as information that they process the land and use unregulated subsidisation. As for the proposal of the United Patriarchs, I can only say that we will support it, as it concerns another part of the problems of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. I believe that there really is a need for a change in order to prevent the conclusion of fake contracts, and apart from that, landowners are relieved, and therefore the introduction of simplified fees is also required, rather than a material interest fee, as is so far. The United Patriarchs are also asking for an extension of the powers of notaries, which we personally share, namely: when a contract is certified, the content of the contract and the form, and not only the certification of the signatures. Please, when we look at them at second reading, to support not only the bills of the "United Patriarchs" and GERB, but to support our bill as well, as I believe that each of the bills deals with a different part of the same problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. Replies to Mr. Baychev's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u97	Thank you, Madam President. My speech will be quite fragmented in this part of the Draft Law, which speaks, debates and very rightly puts the question of the need for sketches in the conclusion of contracts two or three times already. This need for sketches in a purely practical sense and aspect is relevant for the identification of the property which is the subject of the transaction that is considered. Such identification is best done with a sketch. Sketches are needed for the sale of urban properties and apartments, yard seats, and are needed for the sale of agricultural land. This is an indistinct act, an indistinct moment and an element of the necessary documents for the conclusion of the contract. This concerns property rights, which have a very lasting meaning, have important implications for ownership. We can also say that it is also necessary to provide a sketch when concluding a contract. This question has no political significance whatsoever. I think it won't cause a collision and a contradiction between the two readings. I would recommend to all of you the opposition and the governors, in this regard, to implement this recommendation, which so far is being made by the opposition. This will be a guarantee for both owners and those who take the land under rent or rent, for their security and for the more accurate settlement of the relationship. This will be prevention and insurance regarding future misconceptions and problems that would also arise in judicial order. Finally, it is harder to identify agricultural land than urban property and other particular property, so it is even more important and even more valuable to carry out this identification in transactions with sketches. This is a very regular activity - a question of request and of receipt of a sketch, which will by no means make it difficult for the parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Any lines to Mr. Shopov's statement? I can't see. Here you are, Mr. Abase, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't help but think about it, as it became clear that only our group and Volya's group do not have a bill on this subject. The very fact that we have three bills on the same subject means that there really is a serious problem, and this problem arose in certain parts of the country just this year, not a few years ago, but this year, with the famous and notorious fraud schemes with the rental of agricultural land. There have been vicious practices that have allowed contracts to be signed by non-owners, which have allowed land to be transferred without the owner's knowledge, so that there are several contracts for the same property, there have been significant abuses of the so-called white spots. I've been systematizing the causes of this in two groups. The first group is the legal gaps. Yes, there is no doubt a contradiction between the law on the restoration of agricultural land and the Law on Obligations and Contracts, which allows there to be no ban on the conclusion of a contract by an unowner. The other thing that is found is that there is no verification of ownership in notary certificates. The other group of problems that lead to these fraudulent schemes are purely organisational and purely administrative. This is that the connection between the municipal office of Agriculture and Forests is broken, notaries and entry services. Lack of control, weak control in these three institutions leads to what we see throughout the country, where the problem is significant. The idea of all three bills is to cross the wicked practice and stop fraud with agricultural lands. We are fully aware that these legislative initiatives, colleagues, do not put order in land relations. These three bills are extraordinary, they are on fire, they are to solve one particular problem, and with regard to the overall settlement of land relations, I think the Ministry of Agriculture is working, for which we are eagerly waiting for their proposals, but for now the idea of the bills is to solve the particular problem. The emergence of the problem came from there that many large groups of owners and users raised the issue and somewhere in Northwestern Bulgaria even came to protests. Here I must also acknowledge the role of the Ombudsman of the Republic, who was also very active in this process. All three ideas that fellow Members propose have the same goal of suppressing social tensions in these parts of the country. I must admit, all three bills have their virtues. The differences between them are minimal in nuances and in the legal technique used by colleagues. My personal opinion is that the ideal option would be to take the best parts of all three bills and in the final version to use the best texts of them so as to solve the particular problem. At the same time, however, I cannot help but note that there are texts that we think are unacceptable and that importers should seriously consider. First, the condition remains that the rule does not require a sketch when signing a lease. This is exactly what triggered the process that led to fraud, and this thing happened in 2016, colleagues, with a proposal from colleagues on the right. The second, which is disturbing in one of the bills you propose selling land from the State Land Fund, the ratio between payment with DCB and cash payment to change from 20 to 40. I must tell you that you are about to cause another scandal that we do not need. If anyone has forgotten the scandals with the sale of the State Land Fund with the DCB from the time of Miroslav Naydenov, please remember it. My advice is that colleagues withdraw this text, because this will result again in the same result. Last but not least, more powers should be given to the registration services to control the documentation in the preparation of the lease contracts so that there can be a truly stable security notary production. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, we have three bills. We'll vote them one by one. First, I will put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-52, submitted by Yordan Apostolov Apostolov, Boris Yankov Yachev and Christian Radev Mitev on 5 September 2017. They voted 147 MPs: 128 against 1, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-61, submitted by Dragomir Velkov Stoynev and a group of MPs on 21 September This Decision shall They voted 145 MPs: 55 against 54, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the last Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land No 754-01-63, submitted by Zapriyan Vassilev Yankov and a group of MPs on 27 September 2017. They voted 150 MPs: 102, against 27, abstention 21. The proposal is accepted, and that is the end of this point. Coming up next: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL TAXES AND TAXES.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u101	The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance will be presented to you by the President of the Commission - the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u102	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure to be admitted to the Chamber to Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, Director of Municipal Finance and Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Head of Tax Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u103	We are voting on the proposal for admission to the Chamber. They voted 122 MPs: 111, against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u104	The Law on Local Taxes and Fees is amended and supplemented by the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u105	We vote on the name of the Law. 110 MPs voted: 108, none, abstention 2. The name of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u106	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5a, para. 1 the following amendments and 1. A new t. is created. 7. "7." data relevant for determining the fee for household waste, the scope of the data shall be determined by the order under para. Those measures should be implemented in accordance with Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of 2. Previously on "T." 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u107	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with its respective content on the Commission report. Please vote § 1 on the Commission report. They voted 125 MPs: 103, none against, abstention 22. Paragraph 1 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u108	Paragraph 1 by importer. Proposal of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission does not support the proposal, namely: Article 1 (1) (b) (i) and (ii) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union and of the European Union of the European Union The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall be § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u109	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 115 MPs: 12, against 34, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2 of the Commission report. We are voting § 2 on the Commission report. Vote 109 MPs: 95, none, abstention 14. Paragraph 2 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u110	Paragraph 2 by importer. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. Article 63 is amended as follows: Art. 63. (1) Fee for household waste shall be paid for the services of art. 62 on the territory of the municipality. (2) The type of services offered under art. 62 on the territory of the municipality, as well as the frequency of collection and transport of municipal waste, shall be determined by order of the mayor of the municipality and shall be made public by 31 October of the previous year. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u111	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? No. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 3 and 4 on the Commission report. Please vote. They voted 120 MPs: 100, none, abstention 20. Paragraphs 3 and 4 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u112	Paragraph 4 by importer. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle in terms of letters......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) in para. 1, t. 3 the words shall be deleted in the settlements and settlements. (b) in para. 3, p. 2 words before expiry of the term under art. 84, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act to be replaced by the last sentence: "If the State Budget Act for the year concerned is not adopted by 25 December of the previous year by the National Assembly, the plan shall be adopted by 15 January. " (c) under para. The following text should be added after the words..................................................................................................................... 19th para. In the case of vehicles of categories M1, M3, N3, N3, (d) under para. 10 The text of the subparagraph shall be dismissed and a new Article shall be created. 8a with the following content: Art. 8a. The revenue from fees payable for past periods may be used by a decision of the municipal council and for activities other than the services for which they were originally designated up to the amount of the co-financing carried out from other own sources. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Art. 66 is amended as follows: Art. 66. (1) The activities of providing services under art. 62 include: 1. the collection of municipal waste and their transport to installations and facilities for their treatment, as well as the provision of vessels for the collection of municipal waste, except for the separate collection, pre-stocking and transport of municipal waste falling within the management of mass waste under the Waste Management Act.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 62, p. 1; 2. treatment of household waste not covered in the management of mass waste as well as research, design, construction, maintenance, operation, closure and monitoring of landfills for household waste and/or other installations or facilities for the recovery and/or disposal of household waste..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 62. c. OJ L 268, 3. maintenance of the cleanliness of the street sails, squares, alleys, parks and other territories of the settlements and settlements in the municipality, intended for public use for the service under art. 62, p. 3. (2) All relevant expenditure of the municipality for the calendar year for carrying out activities for the provision of services under art. 62 shall be included in a plan-account for the year for each of the services under Art. 62. 62 and by sources of funding. (3) The plan-account for the year: 1. shall be drawn up in a form and order defined by a decree of the Council of Ministers; 2. shall be approved by a decision of the municipal council before the expiry of the term under art. 84, para. 4 of the Public Finance Act, as the draft decision approving the plan-account together with the draft report of the importer and the plan-account shall be published for public discussion on the website of the municipality within the term of art. 69, para. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code. If the State Budget Bill for the year concerned is not adopted by 25 December of the previous year by the National Assembly, the plan-account shall be adopted by 15 January; 3. to be checked by the Court of Auditors. (4) The costs of the plan-account under para. 2 shall be financed by funds from the household waste charge and from other sources subject to the requirements applicable to the relevant source of funding. Other sources of funding are funds from the Operational Programme of the Environment, from the Enterprise for the Management of Environmental Activities and from other public sources, as well as the revenue of the municipality from the use of municipal waste and other municipal resources and revenues other than the revenue from the municipal waste charge. (5) The costs of control under art. 112, para. 1, t. 1 of the Waste Management Act with regard to municipal waste and the costs of cleaning unregulated waste disposal and their treatment shall be included in the plan-account under para. 3 and can be financed by the funds from the household waste charge. (6) With the cost of carrying out the activities of providing services under art. 62, which is at the expense of other sources of funding, reduces the total cost of providing services under art. 62 for the determination of the household waste charge. (7) The guarantees under art. 60 and the calculations referred to in Article 60. 64 of the Waste Management Act, when made for municipal waste, are included in the plan-account as a cost for activities under para. 1, t. 2 for the year in which they are to be transferred by the municipality to the respective account. The accumulated assets of the collateral under art. 60 and the calculations referred to in Article 60. 64 of the Waste Management Act, when made for municipal waste, is another source of financing of the cost of the plan bill in the year of carrying out the relevant expenditure. (8) Funds for the acquisition of an asset whose value exceeds the materiality threshold adopted by the municipality and which is expected to be used in more than one calendar year shall be divided by the period of use of the asset and the account shall be included in the corresponding part of those funds for the calendar year. They shall not be included in the plan-account on the account of the household waste charge for the acquisition of an asset financed by public funds under a project, programme or procedure, excluding co-financing by the municipality. (9) The funds not used in the previous calendar year from the household waste charge shall be another source for financing the costs under para. 2 when drawing up the plan-account under para. 3. The revenue from fines and penalty payments under the Waste Management Act imposed in connection with unregulated disposal or treatment of municipal waste shall be another source for financing the costs of the account plan under para. 3. (10) In the event that the municipality uses other municipal revenues to cover expenditure actually incurred beyond the costs provided for in the plan-account for the previous year at the expense of the municipal waste charge, inclusion of those costs in the plan-account under para. 3 at the expense of the household waste charge. The inclusion of expenses in the plan-account under para. 3 at the expense of the household waste fee by sentence first in the case of the acquisition of assets under para. 8 shall be equal to the difference between the costs provided for in the plan-account for the previous year and the costs calculated in accordance with para. 8 corresponding to the previous year part of the expenditure actually incurred. A sentence shall not be applied first in the cases referred to in art. 8, para. 4. (11) Where an audit report adopted by the Court of Auditors or otherwise found that a previous year account includes expenditure which is not the cost of service activities under art. 62, the plan-account to be adopted by the municipal council is adjusted in a reduction with the value of these costs. The amount of the adjusted costs is at the expense of other revenues of the municipality. (12) Where an audit report adopted by the Court of Auditors or otherwise found that funds from a household waste charge were spent in a previous year for activities other than those for the provision of the relevant service under art. 62, the plan-account to be adopted by the municipal council is adjusted in a reduction with the value of the funds used, and these costs are at the expense of other revenues of the municipality. (13) The cost of the household waste charge for the current year shall be determined in general for each service under art. 62, such as the cost of carrying out activities for the provision of services under art. 62, reflected in the plan-account under para. 3 shall be reduced by the costs at the expense of other sources of funding and adjusted by the amounts referred to in para. 11 and 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u113	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov in his unsupported part, namely the letters................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Please vote. Vote 95 MPs: 5 against 34, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 5 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 82, none, abstention 4. Paragraph 5 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u114	According to § 5 of the importing proposal from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal referred to in points (e), (f) and (g) and (g) and (i) and does not support the proposal in the rest of the proposal, namely: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 67 the following (a) Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The amount of household waste leads to the determination of the amount of the household waste charge. b) Alinea 5 to drop out. (c) Paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The Municipal Council shall adopt the basics for calculating the amount of the fee for each of the services under art. 62 with the ordinance under Art. 9. The decision to adopt or amend the regulation under art. 9 contains also the reasons for choosing the defined basis, as well as the type and source of information for calculating the amount of the household waste charge. (d) In para. 8, p. 3 new letters shall be created in the words "in" and "d": , (c) individually measured amount of household waste for the property, including by means of bags of defined capacity and load capacity, from which the fee for the service under point is determined. 1 or t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (d) the amount of household waste for the property determined according to the number and capacity of the vessels required for the collection of municipal waste and the frequency determined for their transport, from which the service fee under point (a) is determined. 1 or t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. h) Alinei 14 and 15 to unite by creating a new para. 14 containing the following content: The mayor of the municipality provides the necessary information and creates conditions for the implementation of the foundations adopted by the Municipal Council by 31 October of the previous year. Proposal by Parliamentary Representative Tanner Ali and a group of Members of Parliament which the Commission does not support: In § 5, art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8, p. 1 a new point (d) is created with the (d) the developed and/or undeveloped area of the real estate. In § 5, Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8, p. 2 a new letter (s) shall be created (d) the developed and/or undeveloped area of the real estate. In § 5, Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8, p. 3 a new letter (s) shall be created (c) tax valuation or accounting value of the immovable property. In § 5, Art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 11, p. 1 after the words the undeveloped built and/or undeveloped area of the real estate. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova, which is supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 67 is amended as Art. 67. (1) The amount of the household waste charge for each taxable person shall be determined per calendar year, subject to the principle of bearing the costs of the agent or the holder of the waste. (2) The amount of the household waste charge for each taxable person shall be the amount of the fee for each service under art. 62, which is defined as the cost of the household waste charge for the current year of the plan-account formed in accordance with art. 66, para. 13 for each service under art. 62 shall be allocated by applying the appropriate calculation method depending on the basics adopted by the municipal council for the services under art. 62. (3) The amount of the fee per unit base shall be fixed in levs for each calendar year and shall be adopted by the decision of the municipal council under art. 66, para. 3, p. 2 to approve the account plan. (4) The amount of municipal waste is a leading basis for determining the amount of the household waste charge. (5) The Municipal Council may adopt a basis or foundations other than those referred to in para. 4 provided that there are objective circumstances preventing its application. (6) The municipal council shall adopt the foundations for calculating the amount of the fee for each of the services under art. 62 with the ordinance under Art. 9. The decision to adopt or amend the regulation under art. 9 contains the reasons, accompanied by analysis, for the choice of the defined basis, and in the cases under para. 5 and reasons for not applying the basis under para. 4 as well as the type and source of information for calculating the amount of the household waste charge. (7) Before submitting for consideration of a meeting of the municipal council, the draft regulation under art. 9 shall be published for public consultation in accordance with Article 9. 26 of the Law on Legislative Acts. Along with the draft regulation under art. 9 on the website of the respective municipality shall be published and the decision under para. 6. (8) The basis for determining the amount of the municipal waste charge which the municipal council may accept shall be: 1. for the collection and transport of municipal waste to facilities and installations for their treatment: (a) individually determined amount of household waste for the property, including by means of bags of defined capacity and load capacity; (b) the amount of household waste for the property determined according to the number and capacity of the vessels required for the collection of municipal waste and the frequency for their transport; (c) number of service users on the property; 2. for the treatment of municipal waste in facilities and installations: (a) individually determined amount of household waste for the property, including by means of bags of defined capacity and load capacity; (b) the amount of household waste for the property determined according to the number and capacity of the vessels required for the collection of municipal waste and the frequency for their transport; (c) number of service users on the property; 3. for the service to maintain the cleanliness of the public areas in the settlements and settlements in the municipality: (a) number of service users on the property; (b) the developed and/or undeveloped area of the real estate. (9) The municipal council may adopt different foundations for the individual settlements, for the individual areas within them, for the local entities, for the different categories of debtors and for the different services under art. 62, specifying explicitly the reasons for the different foundations. (10) Upon acceptance of the individual amount of household waste for the property by means of bags of defined capacity and load capacity, the latter shall be purchased by the debtors by order specified in the ordinance under art. 9. By the ordinance of art. 9 The municipal council may determine a minimum number of bags to be purchased by a taxable person for a calendar year, in line with the analysis carried out for the minimum amount of household waste generated by one user of the service in a given locality, local entity or zone. Where bags purchased for the year exceed those actually spent during the year, the remaining bags shall be used in the following year, deducted from the minimum number assigned to it and paid only the difference. (11) When accepted on a basis: 1. The municipality council, when determining the amount of the municipal waste charge, may accept additional differentiation according to the localities in the municipality and the individual areas within them, the type of property, its purpose and type of economic activity carried out in the property; 2. A certain amount of household waste for the property, including by means of bags with a certain capacity and load capacity and a quantity of household waste for the property, determined according to the number and capacity of the necessary containers for the collection of municipal waste and the frequency for their transport, the municipal council, when determining the amount of the municipal waste charge, may accept further differentiation according to the type of municipal waste. (12) The method of calculating the amount of the household waste charge when applying the basics under para. 8 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 8. 66, para. 3, p. 1. (13) The persons referred to in art. 64 declare circumstances relevant to the calculation of the amount of the household waste charge under para. 12, as well as any modification thereof, by submitting a declaration in accordance with a template, a period set in the regulation under art. 9. (14) When the persons referred to in art. 64 shall not declare the circumstances under para. 13, these circumstances shall be determined for the purpose of calculating the amount of the household waste charge by order determined by the municipal council in the ordinance under art. 9. (15) The manager or the chairman of the management board of the floor property shall submit by 31 October a reference to a template specified in the ordinance under art. 9 for the number of property users in the floor property. (16) The mayor of the municipality shall organise the collection and maintenance of information on the number of users of the services under art. 62 in the properties of the territory of the municipality, as well as other information specified in the ordinance under art. 9 by 31 October, in the cases under para. 8, p. 1 letter (s) (i.e. 2 (c) and (c) 3 letter................................................................................. (17) The mayor of the municipality provides the necessary information and creates conditions for the implementation of the foundations under para. 8, p. 1 letters.................................................................................................... 2 (a) and (b) except for the cases referred to in para. 5, by 31 December of the previous year. (18) The total amount of accrued liabilities for the current year of the persons referred to in art. 64 should be no more than the cost of the household waste charge of the plan-account formed in accordance with art. 66, para. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u115	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a proposal made by the MP Iskren Veselinov, in his unsupported part, namely letters... [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] It's withdrawn. I put to the vote a proposal from MP Tanner Ali and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. We are voting unsupported by the Commission for a proposal. They voted 113 MPs: 9 against 32, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote § 6 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 90, none, abstention 22. Paragraph 6 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u116	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission does not support the proposal. Are you withdrawing him, Mr. Vesselinoff? [[Reply from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov.]] He's withdrawing it. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall be § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall be § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u117	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote paragraphs 7 and 8 on the Commission report. They voted 112 MPs: 94, none, abstention 18. Paragraphs 7 and 8 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u118	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... Article 71 is amended as Art. 71. No fee shall be charged for: 1. the service under art. 62, p. 1 and the activity of treatment of municipal waste 66, para. 1, t. 2 for properties falling within areas in which these services are not provided by the municipality; 2. the service under art. 62, p. 1 and the activity of treatment of municipal waste 66, para. 1, t. 2 where the property is unbuilt or not used throughout the year and a declaration is filed according to the model and order defined by the ordinance under art. 9, by the debtor until 31 October of the previous year in the municipality at the location of the property; 3. the service under art. 62, p. 1 where the debtors have entered into a service contract with persons who have received a registration document under the Waste Management Act for collection and transport of municipal waste to the facilities and installations concerned and have declared in accordance with the order laid down by the ordinance under art. 9, this circumstance until 31 October of the previous year in the municipality on the location of the property.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u119	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 9 on the Commission report. They voted 110 MPs: 90, none, abstention 20. Paragraph 9 of the Commission report has been adopted. On behalf of a parliamentary group the word is given by the national representative Volen Siderov, Chairman of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u120	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable journalists! I had no intention of speaking today, but I had to leave the Assembly building for a little while, and there was something hysterical going on here, and I heard calls for resignations again. Sometimes I have to leave the parliament building to do some meetings to help someone on a personal level. I try to seal my time between this waste of time when we cycle and discuss things that do not matter to the Bulgarian people. I understand that at that time there was a statement of the Chairman of the BSP group with a request of resignation of Valeri Simeonov. That's not new. This resignation has been requested for some time, repeated in a different plan and on a different occasion. I have a feeling that even if it snows now, Valeri Simeonov's resignation will be requested. I'll tell you in a minute why this particular resignation is required. But, first, I looked at the speeches, and I had to see them all, the three leaders of parliamentary groups, because that's how I love them. In journalistic practice, I know, first, factology, then commentary. And I saw that Mrs. Nino refers to a decision of the Council of Ministers, with which an object is declared national, subject of security and so on. She asked for Valeri Simeonov and Radev's resignation. Some joked that Rumen Radev and it was Minister Radev. My question to Mrs. Ninova is: why, since there is a decision of the Council of Ministers, under which they have signed and agreed all the ministers and the Prime Minister, she does not want the resignation of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and all the ministers down in alphabetical order. Why just these two ministers? Minister Radev had proposed this decision and for Valeri Simeonov why I do not know because Elena Yoncheva was not allowed to the fence. And Elena Yoncheva was making some mysterious film that contained great data, but it is not clear where it will be broadcast, it is not clear how it will be broadcast, but everyone is invited, including to arrest 80 MPs from BSP. [[Laughter on the right.]] I understand that this is a call to heroise these MPs. No one will be arrested, of course, here in this room. If anyone has been arrested, it is me and my colleague, Desislav Chukolov, with your kind assistance and vote for. We remember. But what's this about? Why Valeri Simeonov? Why, though, has BSP been asking for this resignation by singing to the DPS for some time? Why are patriots bad and shouldn't be in power? Well because, very simply, because the Presidency of the Council of the European Union is approaching in Bulgaria. And because this Presidency will legitimize governance, which is successful, leads to stability, has economic growth and things are good in a geopolitical plan for Bulgaria. This is bad for the DPS, respectively for BSP, because it will show that in the government can be patriotic formations such as our three formations It worries me extremely much, and I understand it, and I would be worried, DPS and BSP. However, honourable Members, I would like to refer specifically to the DPS Group, which has been spreading for some time the suggestion that nationalists nowhere in Europe were allowed to have power. That's just not true. The Presidency of the European Union by Slovakia was carried out by a government of four parties, one of which was a nationalist national party, is even considered quite radical. Nobody said a word about it. So we already have a precedent. Estonia is currently hosting the Council of the European Union and the Conservative National Party of Estonia is taking part in the management of Estonia, its abbreviation is ARL. It is a party that declares itself nationalist and so is held in the encyclopaedic reference books. Next is the management of Bulgaria, where a patriotic formation will take part in the household. If some people like to call us nationalists, we don't get scared, we don't run away from it. The great ingenious Bulgarian writer Nikolay Haytov had said that nationalism is his aggregate state. And another classic writer, also deceased, God forgive him, who was in the ranks of the MPs of the BSP a few years ago, except that he said that "Attack" was the phenomenon of the year "the year then is 2006, he said that nationalism and patriotism should be a feature of every politician. So we have no reason to worry about the term nationalism. But from those parties that we are talking about follows Austria's household after us after July 2018, there also appears to be a party there in the government that calls itself the "patriotic" party, it is the Party of Freedom. This is an upswing of these parties in Europe because they oppose the processes that ruin national identity, which in the process of globalisation want to impose same-sex marriages and such things that Christian, traditional understandings of peoples reject them. In Bulgaria this is unacceptable. And this clash between the conservative line in the face of patriotic formations, and the liberal line in the face of liberal parties, green, left and so on, is a European phenomenon. In this clash, the conservative line takes stronger positions. Yes, they did not win in Holland, but took an extremely good result. They didn't win in France, but they've had a good result that they've never seen before. In Austria, too, my personal friend Hans Christian Strahe took an extremely good score and ranked second. This means that in Europe people do not accept what has been presented as the inevitable, unalternative peoples, the nations to be obliterated, the national economies to be expunged, to be squeezed under the giant supranational companies, to have no differences, not to hold on to the people, not to hold on to their vernacular traditional affiliations and so on, to allow the migratory waves here we come to the subject, which uncontrollably invade Europe, to settle wherever they want, to make terrorist acts and, for example, the Chancellor of Germany to say to them: "Come more! A thousand more young people come. All these Europeans don't want it. All this Bulgarians do not want it. All of this is not what the voters who voted for us want. All this is not what the voters who voted for the other parties in this Parliament want. And here suddenly appears a fixation, an indication of the guilty person in the face of Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister, broadcast by the United Patriarchs and Krasimir Karakachanov, the other Deputy Prime Minister, who is asked to resign because he is simply doing certain things. He's such a guy. I've known him since he was a student. He's an active man. He likes to do something. And when a person does something, he's not insured by mistakes, yes. But it's better to do something, somewhere, and make a mistake, but to end up instead of standing there, looking at the ceiling. The passive man, he's sinless, yes. Perhaps many faults can be found on Valeri Simeonov, but to ask only him for his resignation, given that there is a decision of the Council of Ministers, means now a ten-day-society, Mrs. Ninova. Therefore, I cannot otherwise accept your pathetic statement in defence of freedom of speech, access to information and so on. In every country there are secret sites, there are objects of national security. Go take pictures of the wall Israel built to separate some of its compatriots. Go shoot at the Mexican border the American wall they've built against illegal migrants. Not only will you be arrested, but no one will be able to save you. Now this is where Elena Yoncheva wanted to make a movie. That's great! I've known her for years, I respect her creativity, we're colleagues, we know each other personally. However, I ask why Elena Yoncheva was not filming when in the center of Sofia illegal immigrants were smashing, beating people, raping, raping girls, raging, stealing, breaking and so on? Why, when they set fire to a whole dorm, didn't she go to film it to make a full consistent film about migration problems? Why didn't you then report statistically how much migration decreased after building the fence in question, which you think is very bad? Well, before that, was it better when they were going into crowds and I even remember that the brother of a consultant, a PR consultant and an image maker wouldn't say his name, but it starts with Al and ends with lighthouses, his brother had built a whole company, a company that would translate them all and take them where they should and accommodate them? Was that better? Was it better when they invaded crowds, settled and people in Bulgaria went out to protests because they didn't want to have such a camp or hostel in their village? No, it wasn't better. In 2013, when the MPs of Ataka here wanted a fence, even a wall to be built, we heard mockery. Now we're proud of this fence! Yes, the Prime Minister is showing it to his colleagues from Europe. Yes, because in Europe they are already building fences among themselves.. Hungary, Czech Republic, Slovakia. They no longer want to allow these migrants. And here, instead of saying, "Yes, well, this fence has done its job, there may be some problems, there may be some fixing somewhere, but it has done its job." That wasn't before.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u121	Mr. Siderov, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u122	So, very please, when you want resignations, start with yourself! Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. On behalf of a group, the people's representative Yordan Tsonev has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. On behalf of a parliamentary group, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and I will make this declaration as a response to the previous declaration. I am pleasantly provoked by the tons of calm, as should be in the Bulgarian Parliament, without insults, without qualifications, with an attempt to explain, with an attempt to ask the right questions. The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was the first to ask for this resignation, Mr. Siderov the resignation of the current Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, and even before the entry into power talked about why this person should not be in power and his formation. First of all, to answer the question of why the DPS believes that the three formations are not patriotic, but nationalist, and I will clarify the ethnicism that we are fighting against. Ethnonationalism, not patriotism! Patriotism unites. Patriotism is something that makes all ethnicities, all citizens of one country unite around the idea of the motherland in which they were born. The country where they were born and the good of this country and of all the people in it. Bulgaria is not a monoethnic country. You may very much want to, you may very much want some, but in Bulgaria live different ethnicities and they make up a very serious percentage of the population, of the citizens of our country. [[Reply of MP Stanislav Stanilov.]] Forgive me, Professor Stanilov! I will answer you because I respect you! Forgive me if I'm wrong somewhere in terms I'm not much of a specialist in this area. But I have the desire to explain why we are against the participation of nationalists, ethnicists in power. Because the tone and language used by your colleague, Valeri Simeonov, in no way contributes to the unity of the nation. No way! [[Replications from OP.]] Yes, it does! He separates people, insults one ethnic group, and turns her against another. [[Reply from the OP: "And you do not set! "]] If he spoke and set us, ethnic Bulgarians, against ethnic Turks, against gypsies, because I do not like the word "Romas" and my voters, who are Roma, have also told me that they prefer the other word, so I deliberately use that word, if that is the case, and that is because he called their mothers bitches. But not going back to that terminology doesn't make any sense. We did quotes, we did, we did, we sent them to Europe and so on. And you know them. He pushed them across the border, kicked them and so on. All of this in no way can cause us to desire these people to participate in power. By giving examples with Europe, we can give many other examples. But the parties that you point to in Europe, none of them are an ethnicist party. Yes, these parties are against the dictatorship of Brussels officials, against the way the European Union operates. We also believe, and have repeatedly said, as a pro-European party, that the European Union cannot continue to exist in this form unless it is reformed that Brexit is not a mistake. Brexit is the desire of an entire nation, which is one of the most pro-European nations, to leave the Union because of mistakes in the policy of this Union. But that's different! This has nothing to do with the words we heard the other day, with the words of this tribune. Mr. Siderov, your speech was in a tone and in a way we can speak, but your colleagues don't say that. They cause the opposite feeling in the Bulgarian people. They adjust, we've said the words before, have the power to build or destroy. If from this tribune the words turn one ethnicity from the Bulgarian citizens against another, we will achieve nothing of what was set for a task, we have all set ourselves and the current government. Those words echo! Those words give rise to a response! Do you want me to tell you what the reaction of the DPS voters to those words they heard the other day? There's no need, is there? You know what this reaction is! Then? That's why we're against it. There is a huge difference between parties in Europe who call themselves nationalist and your formations. Because here this is nationalism on the topic: "Beat the Turks and the Gypsies! " This is the common thing we have seen for years: "Beat the Turks and the Gypsies! " - Okay, this is a fifth of the population of Bulgaria. How do you imagine that this can be an example of imitation or can strengthen the unity of the nation or the stability of the state? There is no way this type of government can contribute to the stability and prosperity of the state. That is why we want the resignation of Valeri Simeonov, as the person who used the worst language and made the most mistakes in this area. And we will continue to want it, and we will continue to insist on the European example of Merkel, the European example of France, the European example of the Netherlands and so on to be followed. Because we are pro-European systemic parties and it is absolutely normal to want this to happen, as is happening in Europe. As is absolutely normal, to want the European Union to reform itself, to reform itself in a way that all European citizens can feel the benefits and solidarity of all other European peoples. We know very well that the Euroscepticism on which these Sisters feed, as you call them, is something that has its basis. Everyone knows that! And we want to reform the European Union, but not at the expense of hate speech, not at the expense of a language that divides and destroys the unity of the nation, not at the expense of opposing people to each other, building our identity on the basis and at the expense of others. This is the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. We want this resignation because there are limits. Language, speech, measure has limits. They were jumped by Valeri Simeonov, and they were jumped by the man standing in the first chair, and I will not say his name because I have unpleasant feelings. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u125	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mrs. Stoyanova, you have the floor to proceed with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u126	Mr. Chairman, please extend the time to completion to the vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u127	We are voting on the proposal to extend the time until the vote on the bill. They voted 113 MPs: for 73, against 19, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u128	Dear Mr President, I am drawing up all the unsupported proposals from the Commission, or those parts of the proposals that have not been supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u129	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. We can proceed with § 9 by importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u130	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11. Proposal by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dora Yankova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 123 are created. 4 and 5. For non-compliance with the obligation under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 13, as well as when declaring false data and circumstances leading to a reduction or exemption from a household waste charge, to the persons referred to in art. A fine of 10 to 400 BGN is imposed, respectively a penalty of 100 to 3000 BGN. (5) For failure to comply with the obligation under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 15 a fine of 50 to 1000 BGN is imposed on the manager or the Chairman of the Management
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u131	Do you have any speeches, fellow Members? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 10, 11 on the Commission report, as well as the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 12 with its corresponding content on its report. They voted 105 MPs: 88, none, abstention 17. Paragraphs 10, 11 is 12 in the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u132	According to § 11 of the importing proposal of the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal which is reflected in the new § 12. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 11, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 130: Art. 130. (1) For failure to comply with the obligation under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 16 the mayor of the municipality shall be fined from 500 to 2500 BGN. for each year for which information is not available on the number of users of the services under art. 62 in the property of the municipality. (2) For failure to comply with the obligation under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 17 the mayor of the municipality shall be fined from 500 to 2500 BGN. (3) For failure to comply with the obligation under art. 71b, para. 1 the mayor of the municipality shall be fined from 500 to 2500 BGN. (4) The acts establishing the infringements shall be drawn up by officials of the Agency for State Financial Inspection and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Finance or by officials authorised by it. (5) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u133	We are voting § 13 on the Commission report. Vote 95 MPs: 70 against 4, abstention 21. Paragraph 13 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u134	According to § 12, an offer by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov, withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 8 after the words "suppliers' for "supplier' is added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 9 after the words "supplier' for "supplier' is added. 3. point 16 is amended as follows: ..16. The main indicator is an indicator on the basis of which the cost is allocated at the expense of the municipal waste charge from the approved account plan to the debtors. For the purpose of determining the fee for household waste, the unit of measurement for the base of household waste shall be kg or kg. 4. They're creating a t. 39.. 46: "39." The waste is waste within the meaning of § 1, point (b) and (c) of Article 2 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013. 7 of the Additional Provisions of the Waste Management Act. 40. supplier is a concept within the meaning of § 1, t. 29 of the Additional Provisions of the Waste Management Act. 41. The reason for the waste is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point. 30 of the Additional Provisions of the Waste Management Act. 42. The collection of household waste is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point. 41 of the Additional Provisions of the Waste Management Act. 43. The transport of household waste is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point. 43 of the Additional Provisions of the Waste Management Act. 44. The activities within the meaning of § 1, point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Directive 2006/112/EC shall be those activities within the meaning of Article 4 (1) of Directive 2006/112/EC. 44 of the Additional Provisions of the Waste Management Act. 45. The service users in the property are: (a) for owners and/or persons with property rights established and/or tenants and/or persons with current address in the real estate and/or residents within the meaning of the Floor Property Management Act, and/or persons residing on the property on another basis; (b) for enterprises, owners and/or persons with a property right of use, and/or owners, and/or tenants, and/or persons to whom the property is provided for management, and/or persons employed and employed by the undertakings, and/or persons residing on the property on another basis. 46. The activity of treatment of municipal waste is part of the service under art. 62, p. For the purposes of Art. 2 (a) and (b) and (c) of art. 71 shall include only the treatment of municipal waste not covered by the management of widespread waste from all activities referred to in art. 66, para. 1, t. 2 and included in the service under art. 62, p. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u135	We are voting § 14 on the Commission report. They voted 111 MPs: 93, against 2, abstention 16. Paragraph 14 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u136	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) in Paragraph 13 of the Final Provisions, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u137	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create § 15 with its respective content on the report. We are voting § 15 on the Commission report. They voted 109 MPs: 100, against 5, abstention 4. Paragraph 15 of the Commission report has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u138	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 13 of the importing proposal by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Iskren Veselinov, withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to amend § 13. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 13, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... (1) The period for the approval of a plan-account for 2020 for each of the services under art. 62 is until 31 January 2020. (2) For 2020 art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal which is reflected in the new § 15. Under Paragraph 14 of the Importer, a proposal from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov, supported in principle by the Commission. Proposal by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova, supported in principle by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 14, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. (1) By 31 March 2019 the persons referred to in art. 64 declare in the municipality the number of users of the service in the property in order determined by the ordinance under art. 9 and in the case of newly acquired property after that period and before 31 December The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend this Regulation by means of (2) By 30 September 2019 the mayor of the municipality shall be obliged to provide information on the number of users of the services under art. 62 in the property of the municipality. (3) For failure to comply with the obligation under para. 1 persons are subject to a fine of 10 to 400 BGN, respectively a penalty of 100 to 3000 BGN. (4) The acts for the identification of infringements shall be drawn up by the officials of the municipal administration and the criminal decrees shall be issued by the mayor of the municipality or by officials authorised by him. (5) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 15 by importer, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In the Waste Management Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 65, para. 1 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, para. 1 is created item 5: It's five o'clock. the abandonment of household waste and their unauthorised disposal. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 133, para. 1, t. 1 shall be added to either containers or bags other than those designated by the municipality to measure the amount of municipal waste under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8 of the Local Taxes and Fees Act. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 134, para. 1, t. 1 shall be added to either containers or bags other than those designated by the municipality to measure the amount of municipal waste under art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 8 of the Local Taxes and Fees Act. According to § 16 of the importing proposal by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov, supported in principle by the Commission. Proposal by the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova, supported by the Commission. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 83, para 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 16, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law for Management of Floor Property (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 11, para. 1 is created t. 17 and 18: Seventeen. may adopt a decision to submit an application to the municipality for the required number of domestic waste collection vessels in relation to the determination of the municipal waste charge; 18. shall accept the reference referred to in Article 18. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 15 of the Local Taxes and Fees Act for the number of property users in the floor property. According to § 17 of the importing proposal from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. The Council of Ministers shall adopt the regulation referred to in Article 1. 66, para. 3, p. 1 to 31 March 2019 According to § 18, an offer by the National Representative Tanner Ali and a group of Members of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Evgenia Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 18, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. The law shall enter into force from 1 January 2020, with the exception of § 5 concerning art. 66, para. 3, p. 1, § 15, 16, 17 and 20, which shall enter into force from the day of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u139	Give it to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u140	A proposal from MP Tanner Ali and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal which is reflected in the new § 1. A proposal from the National Representative Iskren Veselinov. A proposal from the MP Iskren Veselinov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal which is reflected in the new § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-10-19.u141	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the name of the section of the Board of Directors, which shall be supported by the Commission, as well as paragraphs 16 to 21, including the Commission's report. They voted 113 MPs: 87, against 5, abstention 21. The name of the section "Transitional and Final Provisions', as well as paragraphs 16 to 21, including on the Commission's report, have been adopted and thus the Second Voting Bill. Parliamentary Control Communication on 20 October 2017, Friday: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer three questions from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov. 2. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Dora Yankova. 3. The Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Dimitar Georgiev; and a question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova. 4. The Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov. 5. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will answer six questions from the MPs Boris Yachev; Kristina Sidorova; Georgi Turnovaliski; Stefan Burgev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Nikolay Tsonkov; and one question from the National Representative Vesela Lecheva. 6. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer seven questions from the MPs Yordan Mladenov; Boris Yachev; Stanislav Vladimirov, Lyubomir Bonev and Georgi Stoilov; Stanislav Vladimirov; Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; Stefan Burgev; and Nadia Klisurska. 7. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer one question from the MP Dimitar Danchev. 8. Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski will answer a question from MP Georgi Turnovalyski. 9. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Elhan Kulkov and Sergey Kichikov, as well as Teodora Halacheva. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to four questions from the MPs Tanya Petrova; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Donka Simeonova; and Petar Vitanov; - the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to two questions from the MPs Miglena Alexandrova; Teodora Halacheva and Mihail Hristov; and to one question with a written answer from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Plamen Milkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Yavor Bojankov; Ivan Dimov Ivanov and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov to a question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Affairs Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate. Dear colleagues, tomorrow our meeting will begin with the address of the President of the Parliament of Greece Nikos Vucis, who is visiting Bulgaria, so I ask you to arrange for a sufficient representative visit. Due to the running out of time for our agenda today, I am closing the meeting. The next meeting is tomorrow, 20 October 2017, at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
