ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u1	I'm opening the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]] We have adopted the National Assembly's Work Programme for today, September 19, 2017, Tuesday, from 13:00 to 18:00: 1. Election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute. [[The procedure of choice is in accordance with rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 20 July 2017]] 2. Parliamentary control comprising: 2.1. Debate on asking No 754-05-33 of 13 July 2017 by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to create order in the land relations. 2.2. Answer questions and questions. Messages: By letter dated 14 September 2017, the Commission informed the Member States that it had decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union ("the EEA Agreement'). No 702-00-40 from the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria to the National Assembly has received a Report on the cash execution of the consolidated fiscal programme for the first half of 2017, adopted by Decision No 524 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letter the President of the National Assembly has sent the Report to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the same being available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Second, the National Statistical Institute received information about consumer price indices for August 2017. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. We're going to the first point of today's program: SELECTION OF THE MANAGEMENT OF THE NATIONAL SUPERVISION INSTITUTE. Let me remind you what the rules are. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly is listening to the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Report. 3. The importers of a proposal shall present candidates as governor within two minutes for each candidate. 4. Discussions shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The National Assembly shall elect a governor of the National Insurance Institute. 6. The vote is evident through the computerised voting system. If there are several candidates for the post, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 7. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for the post have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes for the post shall be elected. 8. Where none of the candidates for the post receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the post shall take part. 9. If none of the candidates for the post receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. 10. When one of the candidates for the post refuses to participate in the election before the vote of his candidacy by the National Assembly, he is the only candidate. The National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure for this position. 11. If there is no candidate for office, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. There is a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. It will be introduced to you by the President of the Commission, the national representative Dr. Hassan Ademov. You have the floor, dear Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. First, allow me to make a procedural proposal for admission to the room of the candidate for governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u3	We are voting on the proposal made. They voted 170 MPs: for 170, against and abstention there is no. Invite Mr. Ivanov to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! ♪ I can't believe on the presentation and hearing of a candidate for governor of the National Insurance Institute The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a meeting held on 13 September 2017 held a hearing of the proposed candidate for governor of the National Insurance Institute under Section IV of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. Following the opening of the meeting, the President of the Commission, the National Representative Hasan Ademov, recalled the main points of the Rules of Procedure for conducting the hearing. He noted that there was one candidate for the post of Governor of the National Insurance Institute that the requirements of Chapters 1 and 2 and 3 of the Rules of Procedure were met, the documents submitted were verified. In relation to Chapter 3 of the Rules of Procedure, a letter from the Chairman of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee requested preliminary examination of the applicant under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. In response was received a letter from the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army, signed by its President Mr. Evtim Kostadinov, from which it is apparent that at present no data was found for the applicant establishing belonging under art. 1 of the Special Law. It was concluded that the applicant for governor of the National Insurance Institute complies with the requirements of the Social Security Code and the rules of procedure for taking the relevant position for which it was proposed. In this regard, the applicant should be admitted to a hearing. In relation to t. 2 of Chapter 4 of the Rules of Procedure, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee held the hearing in open session. It is broadcast in real time on the website of the National Assembly. The candidacy of Ivaylo Tsvetanov Ivanov was promoted as governor of the National Insurance Institute. The application was proposed by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Volen Siderov, Svetlana Angelova, Claudia Gancheva, Rumen Genov, Irena Dimova and Dimitar Gechev. Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov's candidacy was presented by the MP from the parliamentary group of GERB Ms. Svetlana Angelova. Ivaylo Ivanov graduated from higher economic education at VFSI His professional path began in 1993 as an accountant at the Municipal Council of Teteven. During the period 1995 he was Director of Property Insurance and member of the Board of Directors of PKK Bulgarian Property. From 1998 to 2002 he worked at the Zssa company "Orel" and was a member of the Board of the Guarantee Fund of compulsory insurance and the Board of Directors of Zsa company "Orel" AD and Zssa company "Orel" life. Since 2003, he has worked at the Agency for Social Assistance and has been Deputy Executive Director in the period 2003-2009 and from 1 September 2009 until 2 June 2016 he is the Executive Director of the Agency. During the time he worked at the Agency for Social Assistance, Ivaylo Ivanov implemented successful reforms that led to the optimization of the organizational management structure of the Agency and increased the effectiveness of the social support system. As of 3 June 2016 he was Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. His professional qualities and competences, proven as Head of the Social Assistance Agency, give him priority as Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. Ivaylo Ivanov successfully developed and implemented policies for protection against unemployment, promoting employment, labour market, labour migration and free movement of workers, labour law, social security, safety and health at work and social security. He oversees and coordinates the activities of the Employment Agency, the Executive Agency, the Social Assistance Agency, the National Institute for Pollutants and Arbitration and successfully combines his duties as Deputy Minister with the Managing Director of the Labour Fund. He co-ordinates the implementation and administration of state policy on state social security. It is established as a professional who knows the structure and activity of the social security system, working to improve interinstitutional relations by seeking consensus approaches to change. Professional training, skills, personal dignity and authority in the field of expertise allow him to maintain good and constructive communication with MPs from all parliamentary groups, social partners, pensioners' organisations, and disabled people's organisations, local authorities and other NGOs. Ivaylo Ivanov was a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute in 2012, and since 2009 he has been a member of the Management Board of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. According to the rules of procedure, the candidate for governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov presented his concept of management of the National Insurance Institute during the upcoming term of office. His concept of management of the National Insurance Institute for the period 2017 - 2021 Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov presented in three parts. In the first part he presented the main results of the management of the National Insurance Institute during the current term. First of all, the main financial indicators in the implementation of the general budget of state social security for the period 2015 - 2017. The expenditure for the maintenance of the activities of the National Insurance Institute in 2017 was also discussed by setting parameters in the State Social Security Budget Act and their report as of 30 June 2017. The conclusion that the candidate manager made is that the Institute implements the policies laid down in the State Social Security Budget Act, which are within the framework of their accompanying financial parameters. Overall, the National Insurance Institute reports more income from insurance contributions, a reduction in pension costs due to the reduced number of pensioners and an increase in transfers. In the second part of the concept Mr. Ivanov introduced the people's representatives to the fundamentals goals which set and bet for implementation in the period 2017 - 2021. First objective: Disclosure of new and improvement of existing services. It can be realised by: - activation of access to registers of other administrations through the single data exchange environment between administrations; - making electronic payment of administrative services to the NSI through the e-government portal; - verification of insurance service and income of self-insuring person for the period after 1 January 2007; - using alternative mailing channels. Second objective: Building effective relationships with partners. It will be achieved by: - functioning registers; - establishing procedures for documenting interactions; - clearly defined responsibilities; - improvement of major business processes at the National Insurance Institute; - developing uniform standards for quality of administrative service for the Institute. Third objective: Human Resources Development. The power in an organization. The following tasks must be fulfilled for its implementation: - developing a comprehensive human resource development policy to achieve objectives and maintain integrity; - seeking high public trust, building and maintaining an organisational culture based on the following principles: legality, equality and justice; responsibility, honesty and transparency; efficiency, efficiency, accessibility, reliability; - observing high standards of conduct and values for which management and employees are personally responsible and this behavior affects the public trust and image of the institution. Fourth objective: Effective financial management. To this end, we will work on: - A well-developed system for financial reporting and control of expenditure; - Strengthening prevention and follow-up control for the prevention of illegal insurance payments; - Overcoming weaknesses in the process of analysis and planning needs; - Binding needs through cost analysis - benefits and introduction of a system of performance indicators; - Analysis of the effectiveness of the risk management process and increasing the methodological role of the unit responsible for coordinating the process implementation actions. Fifth objective: Achieve high information security. To this end, they will be developed: - Analysis of compliance with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act and the requirements of Regulation (EU)201b/679; - Measures to increase the responsibility and accountability of personal data controllers; - Periodic risk assessment; - Identification of a function in the organization responsible for the protection of personal data. In the third part of the concept Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov presented his vision about the effects of management at the end of his term as governor of the National Insurance Institute. The results he and the entire NSI team will strive for and the benefits they will achieve are: - High public trust; - Submission of applications for short-term and long-term benefits and payment of them entirely electronically; - Predictable and desirable employer; - Developed corporate social responsibility. After the presentation of the management concept, the President of the Commission, Dr. Hasan Ademov, opened the discussion to discuss the submitted candidacy for governor of the National Insurance Institute and the concept of governance presented by the applicant. In the discussion were asked questions by the MPs Pavel Shopov, Georgi Gokov, Hasan Ademov and Ralitsa Dobreva. The questions concerned: the costs of social security services, the state number of staff and whether the composition is to be optimized through administrative reform and the reduction of the costs of supporting the composition of the National Insurance Institute; what is the impact of the 2016 social security reform on the budget of the State Social Security, which is being implemented by the National Insurance Institute; what actions will be taken with regard to the increasing number of persons who benefit from their short-term insurance rights; are there cases of hospitals that issue hospital lists in increased proportions; how much the number of pensioners and what savings have been made? The candidate for governor of the National Insurance Institute Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov answered all questions in full within the time laid down by the rules of procedure. Following the conclusion of the discussion by the Members of the National Assembly, the President of the Commission, Dr. Hasan Ademov, announced that next to him, a letter was received in his capacity as President of the Commission from KT "Supportpa" in which they expressed their desire to participate in the hearing and to request answers to the following questions to Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov: "1." Recently in the public domain there has been a violation of the coordination between the individual institutions, in the work of which often insurance persons cannot take advantage of insurance rights in due time, KT "Support" as a representative of the insured persons wants to know what you would do, what measures would you take to secure access to the insurance system? 2. KT "Support" is worried about the violation of the social dialogue, something more. Recently there is even a refusal of social dialogue in certain areas, KT "Supporta" as a national representative organization of employees wants to know whether you will develop social dialogue at the National Insurance Institute and what is your attitude towards collective labour negotiations as part of industrial relations? The letter was signed by engineer Ioannis Partheniotis, vice president of KT Support. In response Mr. Ivanov said he intends to do whatever is necessary to prevent the loss of insurance rights by Bulgarian citizens. As for the development of social dialogue, Mr. Ivanov expressed his belief that the social partners are important in the work of the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute, and social dialogue is a reliable tool for making a realistic social policy. In accordance with art. 90, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, etc. Chapter IV of the Rules of Procedure, President of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, announced that there were no other questions, findings and proposals in writing and invited the Members of the National Assembly to close the hearing. He briefed the participants that the Commission report will end with a proposal for consideration, discussion and voting of Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov's candidacy in plenary and an application will be prepared in which the decision to elect the new governor of the National Insurance Institute will be formed. After the discussion was concluded and on the basis of the hearing, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy proposed to the National Assembly to examine, discuss and vote in accordance with Section V of the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates as governor of the National Insurance Institute, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the procedure for the election by the National Assembly of Mr. Ivaylo Tsvetanov Ivanov as governor of the National Insurance Institute. Mr. Chairman, we have also drawn up an annex to this report Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 37, para. 1 of the Social Security Code HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Ivaylo Tsvetanov Ivanov as governor of the National Insurance Institute for a period of 4 years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u5	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. From the importers, who will submit the application? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u6	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I have the pleasure to present to you the candidacy for governor of the National Insurance Institute Ivaylo Tsvetanov Ivanov, submitted by the political party GERB and the United Patriarchs. Ivaylo Ivanov graduated from Higher Economic Education at the Higher Financial Economic Institute His professional path began in 1993 as an accountant at the Municipal Council During the period 1995 he was Director of the Property Insurance Company and member of the Board of Directors of the PKK Bulgarian Property. From 1998 to 2002 he worked at the Zssa Company "Orel" and held consecutively the following management positions: Director of Marketing and Sales and Executive Director and member of the Board of Directors. Since 2003, he has been working with the Agency for Social Assistance and has been Deputy Executive Director in the period 2003 to 2009 and from 1 September 2009 to 2 June 2016 he is the Executive Director of the Agency. During the time he worked at the Agency for Social Assistance, Mr. Ivanov implemented successful reforms that led to optimization of the organizational and management structure of the Agency. As of 3 June 2016 he was Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, with portfolio: "Observes and co-ordinates the activities of the Employment Agency. He co-ordinates the implementation and administration of state policy on state social security. It is established as a professional who knows the structure and activity of the social security system. He works to improve interinstitutional relations by seeking consensus approaches to change. Ivaylo Ivanov was a member of the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute in 2012, and since 2009 he has been a member of the Management Board of the State Fund to ensure the sustainability of the state pension system. Visible from the presented CV and given the results achieved in his work so far, we believe that Ivaylo Tsvetanov Ivanov has the necessary professional and moral qualities for occupying the position of Governor of the National Insurance Institute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u7	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova! I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u8	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! A very strange situation we have an opposition that will and will make a fuss to the sky, looking for reasons to oppose us, to criticize us, and now that it had to very constructively and constructively use its right and function, and its obligation of opposition is gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u9	Mr. Gokov expressed his desire to speak, so let's...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u10	Wait, take your time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u11	Something else I mean. Now you'll hear. This amazement of mine is connected, not that no one takes the floor and doesn't want the floor, but that we choose between less than two candidates. Can the opposition not have a candidate of its own? Is the stand so short and opportunity to broadcast a man worthy of this position? Can 2017, twenty-what, nearly thirty years since the beginning of democracy, disobey and fail to implement the fundamentals of democracy? There was supposed to be at least one other candidate here, to become one discussion, one debate, one clash of concepts. What should we debate about now? There's really no interest in this debate. That's why no one raises their hand and no one wants to come here, to speak from this tribune. Something I also put on the parliamentary committee as a question to the candidate, which I was not satisfied with. It is in the light of the materials that were distributed and we have seen that somewhere 0.74%... I may be wrong somewhere in parts of the percent, of all the funds it receives are going to support the apparatus. Somewhere around 3500 is 3,600 people this institution. My question is: will the candidate do anything to cut this bloated apparatus? He replied that one, two, three years ago, some cuts were made, but such cuts must be made continuously. We have forgotten, for several years, all political parties, if it is not for us from our coalition, from the Patriots, will completely forget the topic of reducing the administrative burden of the administrative composition. There is always talk about new technologies, about using more computers, modern tools and ways to manage, which means that the need for labour is being released. Therefore, my question and remark are these: will any cuts be made to these very people and are there such visions and such views on the part of the candidate?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov? Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, Dear Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Ivanov! Indeed, Mr. Ivanov is the only candidate for governor of the National Insurance Institute. In raising and discussing his candidacy, as is also heard from the report of the Permanent Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the procedural rules for proposing and choosing the governor of the NSI adopted by this National Assembly are respected. Mr. Ivanov, whom I have known since 2007 as an already established expert and professional in the social sphere, meets the requirements for taking up the position of Director of the National Insurance Institute. He has a higher education - economic and legal, works as Deputy Executive Director, Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency during the time of three or four governments. Keeping it there, in this place, in both the left and the right governments, makes it look like a professional and expert in the social sphere in my eyes. His professional and expert qualities and competences are indisputable and proven in practice in his work, in my opinion. He presented his concept of managing the National Insurance Institute to the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee, which he set out to implement during the term of office. It is mainly related to disclosure or rather to improving the existing services provided by the National Insurance Institute and to revealing new, including electronic services for the clients of the National Insurance Institute, which, I dare say, are almost the entire Bulgarian people. Building effective relationships with partners, developing human resources, which he considers to be the power in an organization and in the very right direction. I am here far from what my colleague Pavel Shopov mentioned about a mechanical reduction of employees at the National Insurance Institute, and for any administration and unwarranted call of the administration. The administration should be just as large as serving its customers effectively. The next goal he sets himself is to achieve high awareness and security. I think that at the time of the National Insurance Institute he lacks this awareness, at least because of recent amendments, which make it clear that people do not know how to make informed choices. We also discussed Mr. Ivanov's candidacy in the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, weighed all of us for and against this application. We accept and approve the goals recorded in the concept. We are aware that the management of the National Insurance Institute depends largely on those objectives for management of the NSIs, but in no case and in no way depends on the policy pursued in the pension system, which, unfortunately, at present, the management is expressed only in increasing the retirement age and internship, with which, as a party and a parliamentary group, we are in no way in agreement and we will continue to criticise and offer alternative solutions to what is currently being proposed by this government. I would also like to say to Mr. Shopov that we as a constructive opposition, perhaps a little in the circle of the joke, you take ready-made footage that worked during the time and the triple coalition, which you never approved and so on. So think that the constructiveness of the opposition is also expressed in the following, which I will say and what I have said so far: although I have determined that Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov's candidacy has not been raised by the appropriate political forces. Now in this vote, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will support its candidacy as governor of the National Insurance Institute, which is a very serious credit of trust and a proof against what you are constantly talking about some confrontations, about some aggression by the opposition, which would make sense to have it now, because you are really raising this candidacy. I want to tell you that we will support the expert and professional qualities of Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov, not that he has been raised by the wrong parties and will follow inappropriate policies. We wish him to succeed in fulfilling the goals set out in the concept he has set himself to follow. To have the strength and nerves to mitigate the consequences of the unanticipated and correct actions of the government in the insurance system. I think that with this act the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria will show once again its constructiveness as opposition. When there is something to support the government, we will support them, but when there is no government, they will be seriously criticised on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. To speak, the People's Representative Hasan Ademov. You have the floor, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u15	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Ministers, Dear Mr. Ivanov! The National Assembly today faces an important and responsible choice as governor of the National Insurance Institute. We of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are convinced that the selection of the governor of the National Insurance Institute should propose a candidacy to be supported by consensus. Why am I saying this? Because it's a public institution with a three-party government. Social partners participate in the management of the National Insurance Institute, representatives of the state participate, so we have no reason not to look for opportunities to reach consensus. We are guided by the belief and understanding that such a public institution, such as the National Health Insurance Fund, such as the National Insurance Institute, must be sought in the management of these institutions and reach consensus and therefore we give our trust in advance to Mr. Ivaylo Ivanov. The National Insurance Institute is the institution that manages nearly one third of the public spending of the state The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. are the costs of state social security provided for in the State Social Security Budget Act. Of those nearly 10 and a half billion, nine billion are for pensions. The huge challenge to the management of the National Insurance Institute consists in implementing transparent procedures of management of the Institute because in these 10 points, which are listed in art. 37 of the Social Security Code, the most important powers of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute, are the operational management and the possibility of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute to present in coordination with the Minister of Finance and Projects for a budget of the State Social Security, respectively projects for reports of the budgets of the State Social Security. I would like to refer to a very important question that seeks its answer. Perhaps in the framework of next year's budget, he should find that answer. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, there is nowhere in Europe for a public institution to manage its structures with 0.79% of the costs. These eighty-six, three-four million, available to the National Social Security Management Institute, cannot in any case guarantee quality management of the state social security system. My request is that all of us here in plenary, for next year, support proposals that will pass at least 1% of the costs, so that the structures of the National Insurance Institute can adequately fulfil their obligations. In conclusion, I would like to say that the governor of the National Insurance Institute is the figure that will deal with administrative management, operational management of the National Insurance Institute and the policies that the National Insurance Institute implements and which governs the governor of the National Insurance Institute are mainly related to ensuring transparency, providing electronic services and ensuring insurance payments and insurance rights of Bulgarian citizens under the laws that we adopt in this National Assembly. If we want the policies that the Governor of the National Insurance Institute manages to be sufficiently effective and efficient, we must keep an account of the laws that we offer in the National Assembly, which we adopt here in this Chamber, and especially the financial instrument with which policy is made at the National Insurance Institute, namely the budget of the State Social Security. Our parliamentary group will support Ivaylo Ivanov's candidacy.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u16	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, would you like to take an attitude? No. I'm closing the debate. Once again, I will introduce you to the draft decision that we are about to vote on. Project! DECISION on the election of the Governor of the National Insurance Institute The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 37, para. 1 of the Social Security Code HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Ivaylo Tsvetanov Ivanov as governor of the National Insurance Institute for a period of four years. 2. The decision shall take effect from its adoption. Please, honourable Members, we are voting on the draft decision. Vote 184 MPs: for 183, against no, abstention 1. The draft decision has been adopted. Ivaylo Tsvetanov Ivanov was elected governor of the National Insurance Institute for a period of four years. Let's give him a happy birthday. [[Applause.]] Procedure. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am asking for a procedure to extend the period between the first and second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, No 702-01-8, from 14 July 2017 and the Law amending and supplementing the Social Security Code, No 754-01-9, from 18 July 2017 to 29 September 2017 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u18	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by Mrs. Stoyanova. Vote 183 MPs: for 182, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The deadline for proposals under the bills is September 29th This Decision shall Moving on to: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 11 September 2017 to 19 September 2017 from: - MPs Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva to Valentin Radev, Minister of Interior, on the security of the Bulgarian border. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 29 September 2017; - MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Dimitar Boychev to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests, on compliance with the provisions relevant to fishing capacity and fishing opportunities and correct implementation of the procedures by the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 29 September 2017. Written answers from: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MP Julian Papashimov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on two questions from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov. Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. You have the floor of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the People's Representative Mustafa Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On September 15, one of the most important dates from our national calendar, information appeared in the media about numerous destroyed tombstones in the Jewish cemetery in Sofia. Against the backdrop of the joyful emotions associated with the first day of school, it has long become an unifying celebration of knowledge, a day when we consider the power of knowledge and science as values fundamental to the development and prosperity of the nation, when we look to the future and feel greater confidence with our successful common future, this news has landed us in reality. It didn't just remind us that society is divided, as if it showed us the cruel truth that democracy is in danger. This vandal act, which violates general human principles, unfortunately, is not an isolated case. This is just another case, and the silence of these facts cannot change the truth. Just recently it was painted and defiled with obscene inscriptions and broken crosses the Brat mound. We of the DPS strongly condemn another act of hatred and call for a common position of the National Assembly on this occasion. We call for acts of unification, not disunity. We call on us to strongly condemn any form of hatred and aggression. To condemn anti-Semitism, to condemn nationalisms, to distinguish ourselves from what separates us from the inscription of the building in which we find us to unite as a condition for success. We call for objectivity and impartiality in the assessment of the state of democracy in Bulgaria, for analysis and learning of the lessons, for seeking unity and denial of opposition. Our word is about the language and symbols of hatred and aggression, about carriers, about causes and consequences. We need to remember and know how society relies on the participation of nationalists in power, who are carriers of disunity and hatred, opposition, aggression. How is it interpreted not simply to tolerate opposition but to exercise power and rule under this sign, along with the suggestion that this is normal and there is nothing dangerous in it? I'll pass on the accompanying suggestion of the bad guys. Against this background, I would remind the voices: Bulgaria to show Europe that the participation of nationalists was not bad at all. Moreover, it was even normal and beneficial for one country, why not for the other European countries. Once again, we alert the lack of normality in the country. We call on all the nationally responsible parties to reconsider their attitude towards the participation of nationalists in the country's governance and to strongly condemn and distinguish it. We cannot carry out such a destructive model in Europe and in the European Union, created precisely as a response to the most monstrous part of mankind's history. However, as a positive and constructive model we could offer the Bulgarian ethnic model successfully realized in our country and received the recognition of international political researchers and commentators. At the heart of this model is the idea of a united nation of all citizens of the state. Peace, tolerance, stability and security. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the threshold of the Presidency Bulgaria has no right to move away from European models and values. The Bulgarian ethnic model is the emblem of the Bulgarian transition, regardless of its knowledge and recognition. Today more and more ambiguity is not the ignorance and misunderstanding of the model, even the non-confession, but rather the enormous reluctance to understand. Real integration and unification, peace, balance, tolerance, dialogue, agreement, equality and partnership These are the main characteristics of the Bulgarian ethnic model. It is unacceptable in European Bulgaria to tolerate such acts and behaviour, to be silently ignored and unpunished to remain Nazi signs and symbols, assault on memorable plates, destruction of cemeteries, in order to normally accept the dictionary of hatred, including the active manifestation of this hatred. And that act had to be condemned by the government. Today there was supposed to be a declaration from the biggest political party. Why do all these things happen? Because nationalists are tolerated. Why is power silent, too? Because the nationalists are in power. The European Presidency cannot be an alibi for this. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms do not remain silent when faced with manifestations of Nazism and extremism. We always clearly and categorically condemn populism, radicalism and nationalism. And it always will be when democracy is at stake. Instead of inadequate attempts by some to read the European Commission President Jean-Claude Juncker's annual speech on the state of the Union, we must very carefully consider his proposal to end the EU funding for eurosceptic, extremist and nationalist parties. Today it's time for everyone to take the right position. Tomorrow may be too late. And no one for whom European values matter has the right to remain silent. Otherwise, it is part of Euroscepticism, extremism and national populism. This is how we accept the legacy of Martin Nimöller from his sign poem. When the Nazis came for me. When the Nazis came for the Communists, I was silent; I wasn't a communist. When they shut down the Social Democrats, I was silent; I wasn't a social democrat. When they came for the unions, I was silent; I wasn't a union member. When they came for the Jews, I was silent; I wasn't Jewish. When they came for me There were no more people left, ..to protect me................and protect [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Any other affidavits? Not at the moment. Moving on to: DISCLOSURES BY REPRESENTATIVES OF PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVES LIGHTING AND GEORGI GYOKOV TO THE MINISTER OF EARTH, FOOD AND GREEN ROMAN ABOUT THE POLICY OF THE MINISTERITY OF EARTH, FOOD AND GORE TO CREATE A NEXT IN THE RECOGNITIONS. The inquiry by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov was answered in the meeting on September 8, 2017, Friday. At the same meeting, 61 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) submitted a proposal for a debate on the questioning, together with a draft decision. The debates are scheduled by the President of the National Assembly for the next parliamentary control meeting. The proposal for a debate on the questioning and the draft decision were sent to the Members of the National Assembly in electronic form on 8 September 2017, Friday. A second draft was introduced for a decision by the MP from the political party GERB parliamentary group on 18 September 2017, Monday and sent the same day to the MPs in electronic form. Projects tabled for decisions to be voted on. First, the draft decision submitted by 61 MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. No 754-00-96 of 8 September 2017, registered at 11.08. Second draft decision submitted by a MP from the political party GERB parliamentary group, No 754-02-74 from 18 September 2017, registered at 13.35 pm. Mr. Gokov has the floor for the presentation of the Draft Decision. You have 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! The subject is so huge, I wonder where to start it. First of all, I will quote three paragraphs of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. These are art. 17, para. 1 which states: "The right to property and inheritance is guaranteed and protected by the law. Alinea 3 of the same article states: "The property used is inviolable. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 21, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria: The Land is a major national wealth which enjoys special protection of the state and society. If it has not yet become clear to you why I quote the Constitution, it will become clear to you further. In Bulgaria, under the conditions of a free neoliberal market economy during the transition and after the unconsidered restoration of ownership of agricultural land, there was built and established land agriculture. Currently it covers about 75% of the arable land in Bulgaria. Owners of inherited agricultural land, who have become coerced into tenants whose land has been restored to them under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and which they under a number of circumstances, one of which is that they cannot process it themselves, are forced to give it to others, without claiming for who knows what accuracy they are, are no less than two million Bulgarian citizens. That is, almost every third Bulgarian in one way or another is concerned by today's debates. The same 2 million Bulgarians with less or more agricultural land have entered into almost feudal dependencies on the tenants and mostly from the agro-oligers. Since they are completely devoid of information, unable to defend their elementary rights and interests and are flogged with long-term lease contracts with cleverly invented causes that damage them, with the possibility of unlimited continuation of contracts. All this in the 21st century in a country calling itself a proud member of the European Union. The large tenants, and the smaller ones, with the silent consent and the screaming inactivity of the state, dispose of their land as their own land. Even more than their own, because they have no thought of the preservation and preservation of it, they process it, they harvest it, and it is very little to them that they collect a European and national subsidy. If they're willing to pay any rent to the owner of the land at all, it's a dime and in most cases it's even less than the decare grant. For ten to fifteen years again, with the silent consent and inaction of the state or perhaps with its deliberate assistance against the background of poverty and deepening inequalities, a rich, strong and organised layer of tenants is formed, which dictates the terms of the contracts of the real owners of land, including the amount of rent. Correct tenants struggle with this unfair competition and are forced to apply the same grips and techniques as the incorrect ones. The tenants dictate all conditions and behave as masters, and the owner of the land obeys because otherwise his lands will fall into the so-called white spots and the tenant will again take them and process them, only that he will pay indirectly through the municipality, and less and very often nothing. Gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! An absolute fact is a serious problem in the relationship between landowners and tenants. The payment and receipt of the lease has become a battle between them in a fierce battle with a foretold end, always in favor of the tenant. And the state doesn't care about this injustice, and at the moment it has left these relationships unmanageable, even though they have to be resolved and regulated by it. Because the Bulgarian remains with the feeling that the state is on the side of the incorrect tenants who lie to him and cheat him. On the back of the owners of the land, many tenants became millionaires, buzzing with luxury SUVs and making fun of the owners by forgetting payment or not paying at all. On top of that, the state tolerates them with this imperfect legislation. I wonder when people will get a fair rent for their land based on its extraction, not on the distorted monopoly market dictated by the tenants and the agro-oligers. You cannot deny that, Mr. Minister and you, Members of the National Assembly, this is because every single MP can take the Minister to his electoral district, face-to-face with these people, lied and cheated by the tenants to whom they have given their own lands. There is generally no knowledge of rights and obligations, there is no information about the amount of fair payments on the rent. We at BSP have repeatedly suggested that there should be some order in which to provide information on the amount of fair payments in agricultural areas, public information to be published annually. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Regional Services of Agriculture is publishing by municipalities the rent payments on the basis of contracts actually concluded and on this basis are paid the white spots. This may be an indication of the market price of the rent and the owner of this base to seek in some form the actuality of the rent payments and may, to some extent, determine the price of what it owns. However, this is not enough because landowners do not have legal grounds to demand this real and fair price for their own land. The owner of the land is in a bad situation. In the current legal framework, a legal situation the owner of the land is less important than the tenant. And the principle must be that anyone who has property in the case of agricultural land must obtain economic realization of this property, and this is only done through a fair amount of rent. Another problem is overwork. There were whole groups of intermediaries. A man from a local place makes contracts, then overcharges the whole land and who has received subsidies, it is not clear who paid the rent, who has not paid it, total mess. After all, the owner is a victim and is not at all aware of where his property is in a cooperative, is he in an unknown person, or is he in some unknown tenant, and does not know from whom to seek his rent, most often in such situations he does not receive any payment for his land for which he made the original contract. We at BSP propose in the lease agreement that the land-related requirements for pre-arrangement be specified in advance and that the owners are informed of any change. Interesting are the questions related to the cancellation of the lease. It's not clear there either, and there's a mess. The Arendators have been studied and concluded by powers of attorney naively signed contracts by the real owners with them for deadlines, including more than 10 years, and the disruption is done in the general judicial order. Practice shows that the court order is long and during that time the owners are damaged. The main motive with which people want the cancellation of the lease contracts is that the rent has not been paid in the agreed terms within the agricultural year. A text may be written to govern this process and, as in other contracts, if one of the parties fails to fulfil the agreed relations, the other may break the contract under the general order of the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Is it not high time for the National Assembly to develop and adopt a new Landing Act in agriculture in which to lay down the principles for determining the rent payment as a percentage of the land yield, as are the traditions of our past? To ensure a level playing field between the tenant and the owner of the land, such as the right of the owner to terminate the contract without delay if his terms of reference from the tenant, such as non-payment of the rent, and early termination with notice, if another tenant offering better conditions appears, ensure also that land conservation controls are ensured. Isn't it high time to set a minimum rent or rent over which to give a market supplement? Do not apologize that this can not happen, because for the minimum rent can be determined the amount of the subsidy on decare land. Because now the rent is determined solely by the distorted monopoly market. Isn't it high time to simplify the procedures for issuing the necessary documents and for concluding and legislating the lease contracts? We must return to the Bulgarians the opportunity to dispose freely of their land and to receive as a rent a fair share of the harvest. We must create legal opportunities for the state to intervene in order to create order and sustainability in land relations. We need to make changes that, to a greater extent, regulate the relations between owners and tenants and make them fairer. Therefore, honourable Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, we have challenged the debates on our questioning the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to create order in land relations. Therefore, we are now proposing to the National Assembly that the following decisions be taken within a short time frame by 31 October 2017: First of all, to oblige the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to present to the Committee on Agriculture and Food to the National Assembly an analysis of the legal framework and current state in the land relations in Bulgaria in the context of property protection. Secondly, a vision for the development of land relations and the necessary changes to the regulations to increase the protection and stability of relations on the occasion of ownership and use of agricultural land. Then, in turn, the Committee on Agriculture and Food to hold a deliberate meeting on these issues and to come up with a report and proposals for legal changes to improve the ground relations and address problems. Thank you for your attention. I believe that the National Assembly will take these issues extremely seriously, because I will mention again only that, firstly, we violate the Constitution with the current legislation and, secondly, this concerns every third Bulgarian. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u22	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. This was the presentation of the submitted proposal for a debate and the Draft for a solution. There's a second draft coming in. I give Mrs Karayancheva's word to present it on behalf of the importer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u23	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I heard a lot from my colleague's exhibition, but I didn't hear how. In all market economy countries, land is a particularly important and fundamental part. This is because of the important role it has in the development of society. It has a multitasking role of territory, living space, opportunities, a repository of natural resources, an unconditionally needed resource for the living and victualling complex. Land relations are relationships...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u24	Ms. Karayancheva...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u25	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u26	There's been some mistake with your card, perhaps. [[Noise and lines.]] Check it out, please. [[Reply from the National Representative Petar Kanev.]] We'll make that mistake, and the performance is beyond group time, Mr. Kanev. Please don't get too excited. Continue, please. Sorry to interrupt.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u27	Land relations are property and land use relationships, they are complicated by nature, and therefore we must be particularly careful when making decisions when making proposals, because what has been done over the years is clear. From now on, however, we must be extremely responsible, as responsible politicians, to do everything possible to change the way the Bulgarian land is used. The questions on the sustainable development of land use are closely linked to the rational use of the land. Rational use is the possibility to provide maximum production volume per unit area while preserving natural resources. The land use must be carried out in agreement between or with the direct participation of the interested parties, owners, users, municipal and state administration, non-governmental organisations that have the right to decide on how to use the land. However, it should be borne in mind that agricultural land is a special property, and the contractual relationship for its use, as intended and subsequent benefits and obligations, affects a large part of the citizens as owners or co-owners. At present, most landowners are elderly people who are unable to process or manage the land. In a number of cases, agricultural land owners live in large cities or at considerable distances from their land and from now on to give greater opportunity to the conclusion of the lease. This situation identifies and creates difficulties in managing the common property by owners and should not be overlooked and the fact that there are many uninterested owners who do not submit a property statement or an application for use and thus the so-called white spots are formed. In this respect, there is a tendency to conclude leases on agricultural land between persons who do not have the relevant rights, as well as the existence of outstanding relationships between owners, resulting in more than one lease agreement being concluded for one property by different owners. We could hardly talk about the sustainability of land relations, given that the process of restoring property rights has not yet been completed. Thousands of files with recognised property rights are available in the municipal agriculture services in the country, but the owners have not sought them out. As time goes by, the number of heirs, much of whom do not live in the country. A significant part is difficult to identify the boundaries of the properties to be recovered because they do not know their location. There is also a problem in municipal administrations, which often refuse to provide the property requested by municipal agriculture services despite the imposed five-year moratorium on the land under art. 19 The so-called residual fund. Intentionally, files are delayed and are not submitted to the municipal councils. It is necessary to establish the volume of work and the scope of action, to draw up an in-depth analysis on the basis of which to propose an option to complete the recovery and ensure the necessary funding. Privately restored property amounts to about 47 million acres. In parallel, however, the size of the land is very small, especially in mountain and semi-mountain areas. This practically makes it difficult to rent, because the pieces of land are too small, very difficult to access, there cannot go modern technique to process them and use entirely manual labor. Very often the tenants are agricultural cooperatives that have not strengthened, which are quite new and do not give the amount of rent needed to be paid to the owner of the land. In practice, conflicts often arise between owners and users of agricultural land on contracts concluded on different legal grounds. There are difficulties in implementing state policy in full. What should be done? I will throw in very short and very little, and my colleagues will continue in their speech. The main conclusion is that the reform and the regulatory base created fragmentation of agricultural land. Increasing the degree of fragmentation of agricultural land makes informal rent relations dominant. Land fragmentation makes farmers stronger when negotiating than owners. The reasons for this are that farmers are the main beneficiaries in land use and as fragmentation increases the interest of owners in land ownership. Land ownership is extremely fragmented. It is necessary to overcome structural changes through the so-called "comassation' of land ownership and streamline land use. First of all, this means the formation of a rational agrarian structure, i.e. the structure of the holdings that allows efficient business activity. Structural agricultural policy must be aimed at creating a sufficient number of overgrown and market-oriented farms in certain directions, such as the production of vegetables, fruits, meat, milk and others. Besides strengthening the right to property, Bulgarian agriculture also needs legal guarantees for certain land use stability. The land use regulatory framework should not only allow for the formation of rational farms in size in order to achieve economies of scale, but to ensure sufficient lengthy rights of tenants over time. It is more than clear that we need uniform legislation in the field of land relations. For this reason, we, from the parliamentary group of GERB, have introduced a draft decision that differs from that of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and where the deadlines for the analysis and preparation of the legal framework are extended because, colleagues, this is extremely extensive matter and we need to do a very thorough analysis in order to be able to come up with a quality legislation. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on inquiry No 754-05-33/13.07.2017 by the Members of the National Assembly Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in the land relations The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. By 31 December 2017, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall submit a report to the National Assembly including: 1. Analysis of the regulatory regulation of the public relations in the area of ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. 2. Strategy for management and development of land ownership in Bulgaria. II. Within 10 months of the adoption of the Report under point (c) of this paragraph. 1 The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, after the necessary public discussion, shall submit to the National Assembly a draft of a single legislation governing public relations in the area of ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. The aim is to ensure the protection of agricultural land as national wealth and to create a basis for sustainable development of agriculture.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u28	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to debate the draft decisions submitted by their importers. The time allocated to the individual groups, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, is as follows: the parliamentary group of the party GERB Under the Rules of Procedure, the general time of the discussions shall be 60 minutes, and during the time of the groups shall be the lines and procedural questions shall be included, with the exception of those relating to the manner in which the meeting takes place. In the time of the groups do not enter the duplicates and the time for personal explanations. The statements of the minister present sr. Porozhanov are not included in the total time of 60 minutes. He has already declared a wish to speak, Mr. Porozhanov. You have the floor, Mr. Minister, you can take charge at any time of the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u29	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank you for the debate that is open to the issue of Land Relations. I'd say that's an endless subject. At the moment, in Mr. Gokov's speech, more precisely in the presentation of the reasons for the Decision, the issue of the relationship on the lease contracts was addressed. I don't share the opinion that it's so dramatic, but there are cases like this. This isn't a mass case. I dare say that land relations have their turn and their regulation at the moment. Of course, there are many things that need to be dealt with both on lease contracts and on the provision of pastures, on the provision of the white spots in question. We know and have witnessed problems that occurred in the months of July, August, which we managed as the Ministry at the moment to end them as follow-up actions. In this regard, they are prepared not only by us, but together with MEPs from the House two bills to address this issue. I have prepared information regarding the management of the State Land Fund in relation to the contracts.. how they are concluded, what are the rights and obligations, but I do not think that it is most important at the moment to burden you with this information. I guess most of you know it. Mr. President, I would prefer, after we have heard the speeches, that I should take account of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u30	You will have this opportunity, Minister. Thank you. Honourable Members of Parliament, we shall proceed to the debate. Anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u31	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I'll start by saying that the problems in land relations aren't from yesterday. They accumulate for many years. Their understatement, their neglect, leads to problems not only in the sector.............. but also creates prerequisites for a number of social problems and tensions, especially in small settlements. It also creates problems in terms of the demographic picture of the country. The problem, which was posed by Mrs. Karayancheva, the fragmentation, interesting how this term is used and in what context, but there was fragmentation in the restoration of ownership. The land reform conducted in Bulgaria is perhaps one of the worst known so far in the meeting textbooks. Analysts say it's the worst that's ever been done. Currently, the problem in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u32	It's the worst in...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u33	We can argue about that. You can see, I don't want to get into a debate about something that I know for sure how it went and how it ended. Currently, Bulgaria's problem is the concentration of the land. The figures: around 3% of farmers in the European Union control 50 percent of the usable agricultural area and 80 percent of the farms have only 12% of the agricultural land. The scope and rates of land concentration are alarming and this is particularly worrying for countries such as Romania, Bulgaria and Hungary. These figures are not from the Agricultural Report of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, but from a report submitted to the European Commission in March 2017. This report is voted on and gives recommendations and guidelines on how to overcome land concentration and how to provide access to land, especially young farmers. The problem at the moment is that they do not have the opportunity to rent, to rent land precisely because of this concentration. If we listen to these recommendations voted by a huge majority, we will draw the relevant conclusions and we will be able to change legislation so that we can really work for farmers who have a future can develop the industry and change its structure. The same report states that almost all systems have an integrated administration and control system. Various information is collected, but it is not published and is not sufficient to make any decisions. I agree with that. Try to find in Bulgaria up-to-date information at the present time how many tenants we have, how much land they provide. You can't find one. Until 2011, such information was collected. Then the information began to be collected by the National Statistical Institute, but there after sampling and systems in which all the information is blurted out, you just have no idea what this is about. The information collected by 2013, respectively, shows that those providing land under leases are around 1 million. 200,000. Souls. Each year between 150 and 160 thousand are concluded. the lease or lease contract. What does it turn out to be? It turns out that the abuses in the conclusion of leases and leases have already impressive amounts. It's just that each one of those who rent land, no matter what form, tests such systems, including legal systems, that the tenant has no opportunity to react, to defend himself if the contract for it is unacceptable. The only way he can do that is in court. For the small ones, for the small owners, it's almost an impossible task. For us, there are two problems in this direction. First, inequality of small owners and users in the conclusion, implementation, modification and termination of rental, lease contracts. And a second problem, ineffective mechanisms to prevent and protect the land from misuse. As a basis for obtaining subsidies, contracts are required to be registered legally, but from now on the link is broken. The legal basis for the contract concerned is only registered with the municipal services, but essentially no one and in any form monitors whether the relevant clauses in these contracts are being implemented. And what do you get? Rent or lease contract for 60 years! I've seen it with my own eyes for 60 years! Clause: rent may not be paid, depending on the income of the farm. I ask: how is it that regardless of income, subsidies are obtained and rent is not paid regardless of income? Other examples: mass in Southern Bulgaria co-owners of land in an ideal part. One co-owner shall conclude or donate a contract whereby part of the other's rent shall be saved. Much more land is being used than the tenant hired, or what the tenant received as a donation. Overcrowding the earth is also a serious problem. " My colleague said so. Although the Law describes who and how it pays, it is so that landowners where the land is overworked should hardly be looking for whoever is working the land at this time. Mediators are very well-functioning and organized. They sell all leases or leases to someone who processes them, where the owners ultimately have no opportunity to protect themselves in any form and receive their rent payments. I dare say this practice is massive and is growing quite seriously. Mr. Minister, in your brief exposé you paid attention to the fake contracts and the reaction of the municipal services. This is a problem that is due to an interpretation of legislation, a loophole, an opportunity, a way to realize it. However, when there are fake contracts and tenants have raised this question, municipal services react. When landowners go and ask questions, no one in any form responds to their needs: to pay attention to the failure of the contracts. From now on, at least for me, it is inexplicable how, with a million and two hundred thousand owners, we have no mechanism, no committee, no structure to pay attention to these contracts. We have a Commission for Consumer Protection.. it deals with consumer issues. That's not a user. But with a million and two hundred thousand not having any opportunity to deal with the problem, except through the court, it seems to me that we do create prerequisites for someone to take advantage of the weak opportunity to react to the owners and really in places to create problems that would otherwise not arise if there were more serious control. The issue of white spots is likely to be posed by other colleagues of mine. There are also interpretations, case studies, systems in which everyone can take advantage of the white spots. Even if he takes a decare, participating in the auctions for the State Land Fund, he is already involved in the distribution of the white spots. I've seen this as procedures, too. I would like to draw attention to the Polish roads. It is true that we have given the opportunity that the Polish roads, which are reflected in the Restored Property Map, on the basis of signed contracts, are a basis for the payment of subsidies, i.e. they have a legal basis. But what do you get? At the same time, it is written in the Law that small owners, however, need to be granted access to roads, that is, to be able to carry out their activities as well. This is a problem that solves the law, but its administration does not lead to decisions to protect the owners in this particular direction. We propose to do an analysis, but in a relatively shorter period of time, and discuss legislative ideas: how do we see the change in land relations; how do we want to introduce order, security and sustainability? The colleagues from GERB are making another proposal, which shocked me personally. So we'll be thinking fourteen months until we have some kind of act. This means that if we follow this timetable, we will eventually have legislation that will create preconditions and order in the land relations 2019. This is absolutely unacceptable. Just one argument: I welcome Minister Porozhanov that they have made a discussion in terms of the future common agricultural policy. The Branch as a whole united on the request that direct payments should continue to be as one of the elements of income support I think I read in the media. So the industry said: we need direct payments. But if we do not have a change in land relations, we now have no reason to refute this report by the European Parliament, which tells you that concentration threatens the social stability of villages, threatens the structure of agriculture in many countries at all. The report cites three countries, but almost all the countries of the European Union, as a result of the common agricultural policy, their only goal is to concentrate more and more territories within them, because this is a reason to receive European subsidies accordingly. So fourteen months of legislation that needs to start and show efforts towards how we manage land relations will not allow us to defend ourselves and ask for exactly the motivation that the European Commission requires whenever a country makes one or another proposal. I will go back a little bit in Mrs. Karayancheva's speech, which, as I understand it, said: The land relations are property and service, only that the draft decision includes the word.......................................................................... Management is a very good thing, and I am the first person to welcome you if you manage land relations, that is, to protect property. And when there are approaches that lead to distortion of these land relations, when thugs can at any time, thanks to the administration, modify contracts, fake, semi-false, the owner cannot know and cannot in any way react to what is being proposed, for me this is a problem. And as the avalanche of such complaints grows, as the problems everywhere are the same and they can now be highlighted, it is the task of legislation to put these issues and solve them. For us as a whole, the state must intervene. This is what the European Parliament report is saying, and it will also be at the heart of the future common agricultural policy. It requires drastic legislative decisions and very strong administrative control. I had to talk for ten minutes, and I apologize for taking the time. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u34	Mrs. Bachvarova, thank you. Professor Bachvarova, you are using the time of the group, so you have quite calmly spoken within the right time, so I did not interrupt you. Are there any MPs who want a cue? I don't see anyone who wants to. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u35	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The land relations in Bulgaria are a long and complex topic. They arose with the restoration of ownership of the agricultural land and the emergence of the owners and tenants of the agricultural land. Since 1991, these relations have developed in a different direction, mainly directed by the ruling parties in the period. Land relations are the derivative of the restitution of agricultural land in Bulgaria. They're as messed up as the wrong way to rebuild the farmland. Today, from the distance of time, I can boldly say that this was not the right way to restore agricultural land. In a word, as is our restitution, so are our land relations. Restoration in the so-called real borders has led to the presence of hundreds of thousands of heirs with several million pieces of land. At the same time, the production structures of the so-called liquidation councils were demolished. From such a start, such landly relations. Land relations are a complex mix of legal, administrative, social, economic and even purely human norms. The participants here have different degrees of preparation and knowledge. Small owners and users of agricultural land are involved here, on the one hand, and on the other hand large companies, joint stock companies with special investment purpose, the state itself, municipalities and so on. The interests of these participants are different, but the responsibility to have order, rules and compliance with the laws of land relations is definitely a commitment of the state. The state, after successfully smashing the ground into small pieces and destroying the then TTZS, took on another grand task to launch the reverse process of the capitalization. The phenomenon of the missing owner, the uninterested owner, was born until then. The so-called wasteland has emerged, the restored permanent crops have been eradicated, the available hydromeliorative facilities have been destroyed. The efforts of the state were timid, the parties did not reach consensus on the development of the sector. Then, once upon a time, ideas were developed for the Law of Comasation, Law of Land Relations, National Company Earth, Agency of Land Relations and everything remained only a book. The owners, the users themselves guessed the way of the principle.........................................and on the basis of the legislation at the time. There were no European funds, national support supposedly, banks did not give loans to farmers, and farmers themselves strongly wanted the country to fix buying-out prices, almost buying out their agricultural production. A new era in land relations has come with our entry into the European Union. The logic of land relations changed radically after it was found that direct payments would be based only on the arable area. This caused a boom in prices and started a process of concentration of agricultural land. A turning point in the development of land relations was in 2002, when the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (JV) developed and proposed the adoption of a new Chapter 5, called Use, in the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land. Due to the difficulties of ownership-based coma, the route of land coma was taken by using a plan for the use of agricultural land for the relevant business year. Between 2002 and 2009, with various amendments and improvements to the laws concerning land relations, these relations were balanced, which the facts of weeded farms and the high absorption rate of funds from direct payments speak of. In recent years, all parties in their election platforms have taken the development of land relations as a top priority. They even prioritize them so much that priority sectors appear. In the period 2009 - 2013 the management then so relieved the land relations that a hundred grain producers processed 80% of agricultural land and consequently received 80% of direct payments. In 2013 for the first time the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (JRC) proposed and stood before the European Commission for priorities to announce small and medium-sized farms and sensitive sectors......................................................................................... Accordingly, changes were proposed in the laws concerning land relations for ease of access to land for permanent crops and livestock farmers to take advantage of measures and pastures. For the first time, new schemes for direct payments for small farms, young farmers, redetributive payment, payment ceiling and so on were introduced. Since 2015, land relations have become stuck. There was an effort to solve global problems with a new code of land relations. Nothing happened. There was an idea that the entire database would unite in a national single register. There wasn't even a mention of coma. Instead of solving complex public relations, the bills were rather deciding individual corporate interests of some large tenants. The debate on land relations only became active after a signal from the European Union about sanctions for foreigners' right to buy agricultural land and we forgot again. You woke up after a group of impostors found gaps in the legislation and came up with a tricky scheme to cheat the real owners with fake contracts, and after another LID of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u36	Mr. Abase, you still have 20 seconds. Set your course for completion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u37	I'm done, Mr. Chairman, for 10 seconds. You fall asleep again when other impostors find other white spots and black holes in agricultural laws. And at that time, the cases are going against your director of the Department of Land Relations at the Ministry. Here are the land relations today in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u38	Thank you, too. Are there any lines to Mr. Abase's statement? I don't see anyone wishing for a line. For speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Agriculture is a sector of the Bulgarian economy with the possibility of growth and profiling in sub-sectors with higher cost and market potential. Today we are faced with a new challenge to protect natural resources and preserve biodiversity, to build competitive agriculture, to provide tools for implementing the support from European and national funds ensuring the competitiveness of Bulgarian farmers. The main factor in the implementation of these objectives is the adequate economic turnover of modern land relations. With our accession to the European Union, the development of agriculture has also been provoked and our country gradually restores good agricultural achievements. What was agreed in comparison with the period before this European support strongly motivated the increase of interest in agriculture and, above all, its foundation of agricultural land. The increased investor interest has turned agricultural land into a working commodity and an asset that is not depreciated by time but only increases its value. In order to protect the public interest, it is a necessary change in the philosophy of managing the agricultural resource. Fully implementing the Constitution of our country requires a new legal order for managing the land fund, prioritizing management as a natural resource with requirements for the conservation, development and preservation of fertility in a way and form guaranteeing the competitiveness of the users and generating the country's gross domestic product. A change in the conditions for construction and storage of hydromeliorative infrastructure is imperative. Without its development, regardless of the fragmentation of land ownership, we cannot achieve an effective use of soil resources as well as competitiveness in the sector. This new legal order for land ownership management must ensure: the national interest in land ownership and use does not create concentration, the creation of a monopoly and the violation of the principles of market equality. This legal order must be limited to restrictive regimes in other Member States, as well as third countries with the most efficient farming. The national interest is a maximum gross domestic product for our country from this sector, the conservation of agricultural land as a natural resource, the rights of owners. The State should assume the responsibility and management of this resource as: - protect their return payment; - equal treatment of farmers in the market of orders and management of land resources; - conditions for preventing significant influence of any of the two markets; - the conditions for ownership and use of agricultural land; - the creation of a single electronic property register on agricultural land; -the development of hydromelioration, repair, modernisation and construction, where necessary, of new hydromeliorative infrastructure; - ensuring the conservation of agricultural production, such as the currently developed model for conservation from hail, as well as the use of the harvest from theft; - fairness and transparency in the allocation of funds for support in agriculture; - use of the entire public fund of a country and municipalities from permanent grassland for the development of livestock farming in our country; - updating all forms of ownership and management of the land fund with clear competition between different forms, which should ensure sustainable and long-term management ensuring compliance with the agri-technical requirements for the conservation of soil resources, as well as the possibility of long-term investment in these processes; - supporting ownership and management of agricultural resources. Following the analysis of the regulatory framework, the specific institutes and the practical problems of its application, given the caselaw, we believe that it is imperative to establish a single legislative act to regulate modern relations, as well as the compatibility of existing regulations with European law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u40	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Mr. Yankov? I can't see. A stated statement by Mr. Petrov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u41	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I would like to express my satisfaction with the decision that we are being offered to adopt as the finale of this debate. I believe that these three points, which Ms. Karayancheva formulated, give a clear perspective on what needs to be done to solve this complex issue. I would like to assure you that MPs from the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs will be able to make good proposals in order to finally come to the solution of this complex node of relationships that ours has fallen into, so to speak, whole agriculture. We are unique with two laws that govern these relationships of property, of use, and of land processing. It's a law of relationships that's over five years old. Last year we changed it to four, we made it five, for the lease and another Law that regulates these relations within five years. In the second there are all these discrepancies that we are struggling with. What I would like to propose to the Members of the National Assembly and perhaps to be written and voted on are the deadlines within which the common law must be adopted, the so-called by some of the so-called "codex," by other.......................................................................................................................................... I would like to inform the Members of the National Assembly who do not know that such a Law was prepared by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food and it was almost ready. I believe that the time limit laid down in this decision is too long. As my esteemed professor said. Bachvarova, we will go in 2019. supplies, 2020 supposed. As a last resort, 2019 will take place in the autumn. In this regard, I propose that the ten-month period for the preparation of this Law should begin and thus be recorded as from 1 October 2017. [[Heckling]] t uc 3, yes, as of 1 October 2017, the ten-month period within which this general law or code will be drawn up, what shall we call it? I am confident that the Ministry of Agriculture and Food will deal with this, because last Friday I had a meeting with the Chief of Staff of the Minister, a man of whom it is quite clear how analysis is done, how plans are made, how decisions are made, a very erudite man of finance. I believe that the changes to be made in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, namely to make effective, the most important effective activity in the field of agriculture is very correct, and I think that there is the key to solving many of the problems in agriculture. I will therefore support these decisions. This debate is very important, but we must, in a shorter time, repeat again, want to make sure that this common law can work from the next business year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u42	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? Replies to the statement of the MP Petar Petrov? I don't see anyone who wants to. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u43	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The presence of today's debate shows that we have actually caught a topic that is extremely important and sick. The solution proposed by us to analyse the legal framework, the current state of the land relations and, accordingly, the offering of a legislative solution, in this direction, is dictated precisely by the problem of the relationship between the owners of agricultural land and the users of agricultural land. Unfortunately, to a large extent, the debate has been shifted in some of the speeches, but what we are about to do today is to make an important decision in the right direction, namely to review these relations. In many of them, here I will quote one of the answers of Minister Porozhanov, which I received as a written answer to an up-to-date question, where he says that: It is precisely the purpose of this debate that is to bring about such a change in legislation that will make the agriculture services and the Ministry of Agriculture active. In many cases, there are violations in terms of whether it is through lease contracts, either by stealing agricultural land, false contracts and so on. The deadlines we set in the proposal for our decision by the end of the year for this thing to happen and to present such an analysis, such a legal framework, are the most realistic and the most important. The expectations that farmers have are extremely high. To be here today, the knife is to the bone. All these issues that we have presented here in this Chamber are dictated precisely by the meetings with the owners of such agricultural lands, because the pain they are rinsing before us - the only option to make this case is here in this Chamber, and we hope that the rulers and the Ministry of Agriculture will take the fastest, adequate measures in this direction. The practices we have witnessed during the meetings are extremely worrying and dangerous. I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that this decision will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u44	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Ivan Ivanov? I can't see. Willing MPs to speak on the draft solutions discussed? There aren't any. Mr. Minister, come in, you have a say in the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u45	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I would like to thank you for all these issues and problems expressed. Firstly, I would like to tell you that there are specific problems regarding the application of leases and lease contracts. They are the specific application and relationship between the tenant and the tenant. Yeah, there must be some distortion. It is permitted by the regulatory framework. We have different interpretations and procedures that are in the Rents Act and the Rents Act. When we talk about the overall regulation of land relations, we are talking about a whole new law. We are not talking about how we are going to settle the issue at the moment to defend the rights of the landlord because he does not receive a normal rent, that in one case or another the Law is not implemented. Yes, at the moment, everything is given to the court. What came out in part of the speeches is an interesting question of whether there should be a minimum rent, or a minimum rent. It is not very markety, but it is really worth considering and not only for this reason, but perhaps for some mandatory conditions to be included in these relationships in the contracts to be restrictive in relation to land users. I want to thank Mr. Petrov for thinking that we can handle this very quickly. I want to fix you, though. Work was started on the Labour Code. A material was presented, which had 400 remarks and then the caretaker government terminated the contract and ended the relationship. The contract itself is somewhere to be investigated, so to speak. So working on a new bill has to start again. We started it about two and a half months ago, not in a very intense plan. That is why the deadlines that we would think are acceptable for us to do an analysis by the beginning of next month and I now have the analysis, it is with me, what laws do we have problems with implementation and what can be done? I do not think that this is something comprehensive that we can offer to the Agricultural Commission. So our vision is to be able to look at things much more carefully if we have to communicate them. It is no coincidence that I invite the Agricultural Commission to the Ministry continuously, as is said, a coffee shop, to debate current issues. When we set the ten-month deadline, we talk about the Code in question or the Law in question, which should replace the four special laws that are related to land relations. Things aren't that simple! That's why we wouldn't want to work under pressure. I do not want to say that any justification is the Presidency we have at the beginning of next year. We would never say, and we would never have made the Presidency abandon the relationship with our farmers. Never! But we need to be clear that the subject itself is very serious and we need to do it properly. It would be very difficult for the Ministry of Agriculture to regulate relationships in leases and leases. One million. 200,000. Owners of our employees from municipal services to be arbitrators in one direction or another, I think it is nice to talk about this because such legislative records bet a similar commitment on these services, which are currently overloaded, you know what the salaries are and the employees there are experienced, but are not with the greatest opportunities in terms of legal or other relations. Yes, I repeat many things from what we have said in committees, and when I have answered your questions here. We are currently conducting an investigation to award a single IT system. We currently have several non-coordinated systems and this is an integral part of the management of this land relations process. There's a lot of things. To conclude, I would like to assure you that the sector is not at all in a bad national state. The sector has united in the topic of the common agricultural policy. Today the Prime Minister was given this position, which is broadcast from the whole industry with a declaration that is related to the desire to keep one relatively stable, or at the same levels, a budget for the common agricultural policy for next year. Yeah, it's a very long debate. I had the opportunity to speak on it in front of you last week. Therefore, my appeal is to apply reasonable deadlines both for analysis and for the single legislation of land relations. If something needs to be done on the proposal that was made from the left, to think about the leases, to do something about ongoing regulation, let's do it, but not to be in our vision of the big bill at the end of April next year. These are the few things for which my appeal to the National Assembly is before making the decision. Once again, I would like to thank you for this debate that we have had the opportunity to hold. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u46	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. If there are MPs willing to take part in the debates in the remaining time of their groups? I won't. I look especially at Mr. Petrov because his proposal has received an answer and an explanation. If you keep it, we'll have to put it to a separate vote? He's staying. Are there any eligible MPs? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the proposed draft decisions. We are voting on the first draft on behalf of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 754-05-33, of 13 July 2017 by the Members of the National Assembly Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in the land relations The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. By 31 October 2017, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall submit to the Committee on Agriculture and Food to the National Assembly: 1. Analysis of the regulatory framework and current state in the land relations in Bulgaria in the context of property protection issues and vicious practices in the conclusion of lease and lease contracts, control by the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 2. A vision for the development of land relations and the necessary changes in the legal framework to increase the protection and stability of relations on the occasion of ownership and use of agricultural land. II. Following the implementation of item I, the Committee on Agriculture and Food to hold a deliberate meeting on these issues and to come up with a report and a proposal for legislative changes to improve land relations and address problems. Vote 175 MPs: 75, against 84, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Dear MPs, I will introduce you to the second draft decision submitted by the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. Project! DECISION in connection with the debate on questioning, No 754-05-33, of 13 July 2017 by the Members of the National Assembly Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the creation of order in the land relations The National Assembly on the basis of art. 90, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED I. By 31 December 2017, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall submit a report to the National Assembly including: 1. Analysis of the regulatory regulation of the public relations in the area of ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria; 2. Strategy for management and development of land ownership in Bulgaria. II. Within 10 months of the adoption of the Report under item I, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, after the necessary public consultation, shall submit to the National Assembly a draft of a single legislation governing public relations in the field of ownership, use, conservation and management of agricultural land in Bulgaria. The aim is to ensure the protection of agricultural land as national wealth and to establish a basis for sustainable development of agriculture. There has been a proposal for an editorial change relating to the period recorded by the importers in paragraph 2 as follows: 1.................................................................................. The proposal of the National Representative Petar Petrov is for a change in this text, which will sound like: "In the period from 1 October 2017............................................................................................. First, we will vote on the amendment proposal in accordance with our Rules of Procedure. Please vote on the proposal by Tsveta Karayancheva with the editorial amendment proposed by Mr. Petar Petrov... [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting first on the editorial amendment and the main text will be voted next. [[Noise and lines.]] They voted 175 MPs: 36, against 35, abstention 104. The offer is not accepted. Is it a re-voting proposal? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u48	Thank you. Please, let's reschedule... [[Noise and lines.]] I clarify, Mr. Popov reminds me that we are voting on the proposal of the MP Tsveta Karayancheva with the proposed editorial amendment by the MP Petar Petrov. It refers to another beginning of the 10-month period, i.e. from 1 October. Is there anyone who doesn't understand what we're voting for? The editorial amendment is a vote. I ask for a re-vote of Karayancheva's proposal with Peter Petrov's proposal. They voted 175 MPs: 27, against 52, abstention 96. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the main text of the second draft decision of the Parliamentary Representative Tsveta Karayancheva. Please vote. Vote 180 MPs: 101, against 70, abstention 9. The proposal is adopted and with this the draft decision with importer Tsveta Karayancheva becomes the decision of the National Assembly on point one. Thank you. Here's a negative vote. A little more patience, fellow Members, on that point. We're not done.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! With all due respect, I think that we here are exchanging buying fairy tales on the yellow pavements for important issues that have nothing to do with people's real problems. On 16 January 2017, the people's representative from GERB Maria Beloeva introduced an amendment that opens such a door in the problem of land relations that people are currently on protests to protect their lands. I strongly object to the 10-month deadline. This means that in the business year 2019 - 2020 we will regulate something for which people are now suffering. I think it is extremely incorrect to leave such a megdan, such air for a problem in land relations and to think that we here are walking on the yellow pavement and talking about the common economic policy, for the purposes of the Presidency, we are dealing with people's problems. That's why it's my negative vote. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. We're continuing with parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u51	Dear colleagues, please take your seats! Today's parliamentary control begins answering questions and questions, with a first question to Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. He will answer a question from the National Representative Elena Yoncheva, Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva about the extremely difficult financial and organizational state of the Diagnostic-consultative Center "St. Georgi. Haskovo, a trade company with the Ministry of Defence. Who's gonna ask the question, guys? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u52	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Defense! Our question is about the serious financial and organizational state of the Diagnostic and Consulting Center. The town of Haskovo is the town of Georgi. DCC St. George's Day. The town of Haskovo is a specialized hospital for medical care and services in Haskovo and Haskovo district. In the building of DCC St. Georgi, Haskovo, there are tenants and these are a multiprofile hospital for active treatment In the past years, they have accumulated debts. In addition, the financial situation of the company on the reports drawn up is poor. Last year, DCC St. Georgy is done with a 56 grand loss. BGN, for the half-year of 2017 the loss is about 22 thousand. lv. It also impresses the financial statements that the revenue from the specialized medical activity that the Centre carries out is less than the cost of the salaries of doctors, employees and staff. In this regard, it is our question: what is the opinion of the Ministry of Defence, as the DCC "St. Georgi, Haskovo, is a trade company with the Ministry of Defence, what is the opinion of the Ministry of Defence for strengthening and development of the activities of the Ministry of Defence. "Georgy," Haskovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. For a response, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Mr. Karakachanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u54	Mr. Dinkov, Mrs. Yoncheva, Mrs. Jeleva! That's what Mr. Dinkov said. The first half of 2017 ended with an accounting loss of 22 thousand. lv. Currently, 23 people working in the company are medical and non-medical personnel. The total revenue received during the period amounted to 299 thousand. BGN, of which the revenues by main activity amount to 186 thousand, or they account for about 65% of the total revenue. DCC St. George's Day. Georgy "St. Haskovo," realized revenue from rented premises in the hospital building, owned by the company. Rents are general practitioners and the hospital "Hygiya" Ltd. Between the DCC and St. George's. There are two contracts for rent for laboratory chemical, microbiological and radiological research. Under the quoted contracts are accumulated debts from the hospital "Hygiya" to the DCC St. Sv. The total amount of 549 237, 45 BGN is George. For the collection of the amounts due by the "Hygiya" Ltd., the amount of this amount, which I mentioned, was filed a lawsuit by the SCC. The Court of Justice of Haskovo described the business case No 131 of 2016 in the description of the District Court of Haskovo. The managers of the two companies signed and submitted to the Ministry of Defence an agreement on the amount of the amounts due and the method of their repayment to be submitted to the Court of Commerce No 131 of 2016 on the description of the District Court of Haskovo for approval. With regard to the development of the medical establishment of the manager of the health care center of Sv. Mr. Emil Bobotanov, Mr. Haskovo, has been given the opportunity to improve the company's business and financial situation by the end of 2017. Under the Agreement I was talking about, it amounts to 549 237 BGN. The period for which the amount is agreed to be paid out is about 7 years, but this Agreement has not been approved by the court. This is the state at the time of SCC. The town of Haskovo.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u55	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. Come in for a line, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u56	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, DCC St. Georgi is not complying with the State Property Act. In 2016, without a competition, without tender procedures, the rent of "Hygia" was reduced by approximately two thirds of 11 thousand. lv. $4,000. lv. Only the debts of "Hygia", as you said, at the beginning of 2017 was 427 thousand. lv. The company was profitable between 2010 and 2015. What measures are you going to take against this violation of the State Property Act and whether the medical establishment is not headed towards bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u58	Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, from the data I submitted, it appears that the amount is greater than the amount you are informed about and is 549 thousand. lv. It can't be said that the company has been run over the years in the best way. Therefore, measures have been taken to recover it from the Ministry of Defence's leadership. What you're saying specifically about this contract and the reasons for reducing the value from 11,000 to 4,000. BGN, I'll check further. I think that in the conclusion of the Agreement with The risk of this company going bankrupt is not, though the losses for the first six months are 22 thousand. BGN, which is not a serious amount. I'm not saying we shouldn't take action. On the contrary, the case you mentioned, I will examine it to see the reason for the reduction of the contract, how this happened and whether this action has been carried out lawfully.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u59	Thank you, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. We should thank the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Karakachanov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev. He will answer a question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva about an increased police presence in small towns with significant Roma population and increased domestic crime. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I will not quote another headline from the news broadcasts of the main TV channels for another beaten and robbed old man. Domestic crime is an impossible scourge for people from small settlements, especially with significant Roma presence. The crime problem has taken a major place in election promises under the heading of Police presence in every settlement and a thousand additional uniformed police and gendarmerie. Yes, this is a main message in the election campaign of the political party GERB. Shortly after your appointment, you personally disproved it. I will not hold you responsible for these populist promises. We all know that this is not going to happen, because it will take not a thousand, but more than 15 thousand additional officers of the order. The "Increased police presence" initiative should take into account the specifics of the different regions, the number of settlements and potentially threatened sites. The settlement network in the municipality of Dimitrovgrad consists of two cities - Dimitrovgrad and Mericleri, and 25 villages. The population of Mericelleri is 1,800 people and there is no constant police presence. There's a district inspector who has a reception day once a week, and notice by one hour a day because he's in charge of another neighborhood and another village. For the entire municipality with a population of about 60,000 people in the evening, there are not enough policemen on duty. I'll tell you how many there are, you must be well aware of two of the Security Police and two of the Road Police. In the city of Mericleri there should be a permanent police station and in all areas where crime is high. In this regard, Minister, my question is: when will one be provided in the city of Mericleri and what are the measures of the Ministry of Interior for additional and permanent police presence in settlements with significant Roma presence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u61	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. The answer is given to Mr. Minister Radev. Here you go. You've got three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Jeleva, what measures will we take to ensure additional and permanent presence of police teams in the settlements with increased domestic crime and significant Roma population is the first part of your question. In order to control criminal crime in the country, complex prevention and countermeasures aimed at protecting public order have been taken. On the basis of an assessment of the operational situation and an analysis of the criminal offences committed and in accordance with the available resources, including personnel provision, a flexible organisation shall be applied in the work of the police bodies by removing additional forces and funds from the "Gendarmeria" Directorate in remote and small settlements. The aim is to improve the work on property crimes and ensure optimal police presence. In order to prevent and prevent escalation in risk areas with compact Roma population, an organization has been established to assess the operational situation and identify the problems of local security. Secondly, obtaining advance information on planned public events and preparing provocation actions to provoke self-roaring and mass riots. Their organizers, purpose, location, time to conduct and number of participants shall be identified. Next, surveillance of the virtual space, forums, social networks and so on, in order to bring the originators of places that declare intentions of disorder of public order. Next, increased surveillance of persons of interest to the police, particularly prone to extreme events. Next, conducting specialized police operations in areas with predominantly Roma population, working meetings with local self-government bodies and cooperation with NGOs, including local leaders. A ministerial order from June this year has established rules for a public order organisation and countering conventional crime in settlements where there is no permanent police presence. In addition, a Plan for Countering Conventional Crime for the period 2017 - 2018 has been established. Secondly, will one be provided in the city of Mericelleri, as you specifically ask? The following data are provided in connection with the request received by the mayor of Mericleri for the opening of a police station of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Haskovo. As of 31 December 2016, Mericleri's population was 1541 people, the registered crimes for the period were 112, of which 54 were revealed - 57,44% disclosure rate. In the first six months of 2017, 10 crimes were registered, one against the person, four against the property and four others. I can provide you with other information. The town of Mericleri and its land are part of a seventh microregion, which is served on a territorial principle by Dimitrovgrad through one inspector, a junior criminal police expert, and a junior security police inspector. A video surveillance with five cameras was built in the city and the signals from these systems were taken to an operational part of the District Department "Dimitrograd." During the above period, the number of registered crimes is maintained, with an average of about 25 per year. Revealability also retains its relatively high growth. Despite the lack of cooperation, after the appointment of staff of the free stats in the sectors of the Criminal Police and the Security Police at the District Department of Dimitrovgrad, it is expected from 1 November to appoint four scouts to the sector of Criminal Police, it is expected to improve the preventive activity, which will lead to a reduction of crime in the serviced territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u63	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u64	Dear Minister, thank you for the program you initially shared with us. To me, however, this sounds a bit like a nice program, but with good wishes. Essentially, the town of Mericleri. I hope the crimes will be reduced by the additional four people you mentioned earlier. For the statistics that you just read before us, I can tell you why the number of crimes remains and perhaps why you think this is a normal number. I've been to foster homes there several times, and I'm going to spare you the stories of the people who share with me about their pain, their fear, that they have to sell their hometowns because living under fear is not normal. That's why the number of crimes has remained intact. If there are no concrete measures further and the problem continues to exist because it has been for many years, I will invite you to listen personally to the people of the town of Mericleri. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u65	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, dear Mrs. Jeleva! I read a little bit of dry statistics, and this is the time that a minister has to answer. I want to tell you about those 1,000 people you told me about. You're right! One thing can be said from this tribune, we can all speak, who are in the administration or in the government, the Ministry of Interior too. What's the stats? I can prove to you that it is smaller, the crimes are less, but they are not the same. I agree with you. Many people suffer from this crime, especially in places where there are communities in one place. You know what we did in Asenovgrad, I'm just going to point out some examples. Notice, from our programme. 187 pages, from page 32 begins the Government's Management Program 2017. 2021, there is one thing and you mentioned it: appointment at least, writes, 1000 police officers with uniforms. Police, police, gendarmerie, border police. We've already assigned 1021, probably more. These people are heading right that way, and we did. Of the many tasks and goals we have set in the program, this is one of the first things. It's the end of the year, we did it now. Yeah, it might be small, it could be a lot, I mentioned as much money as the options are, that's what we do. But that's what we did, and that's where it's headed. I've stressed several times and I'm asking you to hear it, it's about prevention. It is much more important to re-prevent, not to find already 17-18 years old, and the smaller, already criminals. That is why our government has made another move forward and said: the most important priority will be education. These people go to education since they were young, before first grade even. To go inside, to be educated, not to come to the Ministry of Interior, or to us to go to them, already established criminals or at least once, or if not relapses. That's what we do, and I think the measurements are good. They can't figure it out right away. Wait! I'm ready to come to every reception room. I've ordered, there are receptions at the Ministry of Interior, the Minister and all the Deputy Ministers every Tuesday in turn we accept citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u67	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Hristo Grudev about the situation in Asenovgrad. Here you go, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! On 27 June 2017 in the afternoon during the training of the persons from the Sports Club of Canoeing "Asenovets" there was an argument with groups of Roma who beached on the banks of the reservoir of the 40 springs. The quarrel grew into self-harm, which subsequently continued in Asenovgrad in front of the hospital. Two persons were injured with moderate bodily harm. This inevitably led to escalating the tensions of my fellow citizens in Asenovgrad. Spontaneous protests, crowded. Thanks to the police's adequate actions, the tensions of the gendarmerie gradually calmed down. Thanks mainly to the actions of the state, then the municipality, things are now under control. In this regard, my question to you is as follows: is there any information that you lead the Ministry about the situation and what measures are being taken to normalize the situation in Asenovgrad?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u69	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Grudev! In connection with the tensions in the town of Asenovgrad, you briefly told what happened on June 10, 2017 at 18:00 in the municipality of Asenovgrad an extended meeting was held with the participation of representatives of the executive, local, legislative authority, as well as representatives of the Initiative Committee for demonstrators, citizens, journalists and public figures. Additional measures were announced at the meeting, namely to ensure an enhanced police presence and to ensure public order, security in the area and to avoid ethnic tensions in the city. With regard to the trainings of the Sports Club "Assenovets" the management of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Plovdiv has taken additional measures to secure their daily security. Next, with the assistance of the mayor of the municipality of Asenovgrad and after an extraordinary session of the municipal council, a police post was held. He gave the place, built it, we gave the employees for the implementation of patrol-post work and successfully completed the construction of the police reception for citizens in the Roma neighborhood in the quarter. Loznitsa. For the time from 24 August 2017 until now in the exported reception hall of Asenovgrad in the district of Asenovgrad The following activity has been carried out. Five persons have been encircled and 27 talks have been held in the course of countering criminal crime. Secondly, 45 persons were received under the territorial police and 11 signals were received for violation of the night and day silence. Third, the reception room is used on a regular basis to take administrative attitude and attitude under the Ministry of Interior Act. Everyday police checks are carried out in the square. "Loznitsa" for the establishment of persons in the territory of Roma neighborhoods, residing in violation of the Law on Civil Registration. In cooperation with the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, Irrigation Systems and the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry have established an organization for daily monitoring of compliance with the ban on bathing in the reservoir of the 40 springs. The police authorities shall carry out their duties with regard to the control of the prohibitions imposed on unauthorised movement of wagons in the city in violation of the ordinance of the municipal council and the ordered orders of the mayor of the municipality. Everyday employees of the District Department of Asenovgrad assist the municipal employees in carrying out activities on the description and removal of illegal buildings in the neighborhood. The management of the Ministry of Interior and the management of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv took a complex of measures regarding the personnel provision of the Regional Management in Asenovgrad. As a result of the administrative and criminal measures taken for the period from 10 to 28 July, a large-scale activity has been carried out to check addresses, to sanction offenders, to draw up acts for the identification of administrative violations and to issue orders under the Ministry of Interior Act, there is also a detailed reference. The management of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv, based on the analysis of the operational situation in the region of the town of Asenovgrad, carries out a daily arrangement of forces and funds, including those given by the Department of Gendarmerie, in order to optimally satisfy the service territory. The Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Plovdiv is ready to carry out further tasks on the territory and, if it becomes difficult, of course, the situation is ready to implement other forces, and to invite again or I will order the gendarmerie to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u71	Thank you, Minister Radev. Come in for a line, Dr. Grudev. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! Yes, many adequate actions have been taken by both state and local authorities. I visited the dam and the sports base of the canoe-kayak club of the 40 springs. Indeed, every day there were guards on the side of the gendarmes. Things are much more relaxed at the moment, especially after the opening of the reception room, which is in our respective Roma neighborhood. This is welcomed even by the residents of the local community in the Roma neighborhood because they periodically escalate self-robbing, tension and when there is a police presence on the ground, they seek help there, find adequate help and things are solved. Contests have been announced for recruitment of officers in the Police District, as far as I have information about eight sergeant positions and four officers' positions. Our proposal and vision is possible, after the respective competitions held, that the people who are appointed to these positions are from Asenovgrad, as they are local, know the situation, will remain there to serve naturally in the career development that is developing upwards, this is another topic. That's our offer. The goal is to stay in places where people who know the environment, know life, and local people will have better contact with them. This is our proposal, dear Minister. Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u73	Thank you, Dr. Grudev. That was a line. Here you go, Mr. Minister, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u74	Thank you, Madam President. I don't need two minutes. I just want to add that I was there. Now I remember, and you were there, of course, and many other colleagues in Asenovgrad. I said we'd better find some other sites instead of police stations. I'm glad it still reflects the presence of police officers and people have calmed down. In fact, this was my last sentence, which I could not read, that the situation in the report of colleagues was normal, everything was normal and continued prevention. That's the most important thing. There, when I was with you and with other colleagues, I saw many reasonable people among those who were there. I very much hope that the work of our colleagues who are in place, which you mention, part of us are waiting for autumn to come. Some are part of those 1021 we have appointed, and two boys who will complete the School of the Ministry of Interior, they will be from there. Maybe it's a good idea. I'll see if they're local. But these people's job is to work with local leaders, to see who are there so literate that they can actually understand why we did this and when we will succeed, however, to remove the District Government. That's my goal there to calm the situation and not need it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u75	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question will be asked by the national representative Miglena Alexandrova about building police stations in Roma neighborhoods. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, dear Minister! My question is about the situation that was created in Asenovgrad. After tensions in Asenovgrad, following the beating of Roma over children from the Rowing Base, a decision was made in the Roma neighborhood to build a police station. I note only that this Roma neighborhood has found that there are many Roma without an address registration, as well as illegal buildings and it is not clear why no measures have been taken so far. Rommie without address registration, illegal buildings and crime is found not only in Asenovgrad, but also in the largest Roma neighborhoods: "Stolipinovo" in Plovdiv, "Maxuda" in Varna, "Philipovtsi" in Sofia and others. And in Pazardzhik the Roma neighborhood has become a territory for preaching radical Islam, for democratic ideology and the laws of Shariata. Gypsy terror manifests itself almost everywhere in a different form from sonic harassment, through theft, to abuse of people who sometimes end fatally. In this regard, I ask you to answer me, is the construction of police stations in other large Roma neighborhoods envisaged? What preventive measures does the Ministry of Interior take to prevent tensions between Roma and Bulgarians where there is a concentration of larger Roma communities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u77	Come in for an answer, Minister Radev. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u78	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Alexandrova! Is the construction of police stations in other large Roma neighborhoods planned? Police stations are set up on a proposal from the Director of the respective Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior to the management of the Ministry of Interior after analysis and operational situation, criminogenic facts, population and so on. We have an interactive map, I've shown it where the biggest crimes are, and we're making a decision accordingly. Under the Ministry of Interior Act, art. 42, para. 3) Departments, sectors, district managements can be established in the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, as I have just reported on the Regional Management in Asenovgrad, sections and other units of lower rank depending on their tasks and activities. Under the same Law, art. 42, para. 6, the Minister of Interior, subject to para. 3, may by order create and close sections in separate settlements served by district management territories within the established numerical composition and wage funds. That's what we do. What preventive measures does the Ministry of Interior take to prevent tensions between Roma and Bulgarians? Creative concentration of larger communities. Some of the things I said in response to another question, some of them I'll add. In order to prevent violations and prevent the escalation of tensions in risk areas such as they are, in a compact Roma population especially, and established an organization for systematic assessment of the operational situation. This is done constantly to identify local security problems, to obtain advance information, to plan public events, as well as to prepare provocation actions to provoke self-mutilation and mass riots, their holidays and so on; to identify their organizers, the purpose, location and time for these events, as well as the number of participants; to monitor the virtual space I mentioned a few moments ago, forums, networks. All of this is being watched. Increased surveillance of individuals representing an interest in the police from the criminogenic circles, prone to such extreme events; conducting specialized police operations in areas with predominantly Roma population; working meetings with the authorities, NGOs, with the local leaders I said is also a measure that is widely used by us. Based on an assessment of the operational situation and an analysis of these criminal offences previously committed, a flexible organisation of work is applied. This measure also ensures an optimal police presence to counter property crimes, in accordance with the available resources, including footage in remote and small settlements, shall bring out additional forces, including the funds of the Gendarmerie Department. With a ministerial order from mid-2017 are established rules, which I mentioned earlier, there is such a plan to counter, these are documents. I mentioned them and felt that there was, if not ridicule, at least some uncertainty or ambiguity. Yes, without documents, without such documents, our people cannot be calm about what they are doing, and not only there, in all settlements, but also in the Roma community. There are exactly the rules for what is being done, and this plan is a guarantee that during the year attention will be paid, including cases as you say. By order of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Interior, a permanent team has been established to organise, coordinate and control police activities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Effective interaction of domestic crime countering structures is planned, response to received signals of group disorderly public order, especially if there is a serious criminal offence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u79	Here's a line for you, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u80	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you very much for your reply. What I want to say is that I see that you are making an effort because the so-called domestic crime is actually a crime that mostly starts from the Roma ghettos. In the answer that you gave me, I never understood: will there be police stations built in the city of Stolipinovo, in the city of Maxuda, in the city of Phillipovtsi, specifically in the Roma ghettos, and not only about the case we talked about before? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u81	You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u82	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Alexandrova! I've specified as much as I can. I told you what the procedure is, how it works with a report to me, and we decide. There can't be anywhere. Someone here mentioned it from the colleagues who asked me a question. If I'm not mistaken, in 5156 settlements, there can be no cops everywhere in these settlements in the country. That's why we say we're increasing by at least 1,000 people and putting them there, and that's why I showed this map where it's saturated and there's a much darker color red with criminal crimes, and here I showed you a map through the journalists, you must have noticed that this is happening in the city. Burgas. If there are any, and there is a report, of course, we do. Trust me, it can't happen if there are more criminogenic elements, more crimes, this goes unnoticed and we don't turn our backs on. We do it right away, but we don't do it purposefully. We can't find a police station. Something happened in a week, two months, and we're gonna take it out. That's not gonna happen. There's gotta be something. The data that we get to be such that we need a constant presence, because it's a building, about hiring people, they have to travel from somewhere and so on, so that's what we do. Obviously, I have a third question on this subject and this is very important. Thank you for focusing on this, but as you have noted, we are making it possible with the funds that I hope you will also vote on this year for the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u83	Thank you, Minister. The next question is asked again by the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova on countering the Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u84	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! Each day we witness how mostly elderly people give tens of thousands of dollars to the so-called "Alo-deceivers." Unfortunately, the Allo-Imposters are becoming more and more creative, and the amounts that are being given to them are increasing. Often, these impostors are aggressive and threaten their victims with self-harm if they do not give the required amount. In the new scheme of fraud, they even pretend to be police inspectors and police officers. The Ministry of Interior has undertaken various initiatives and campaigns to combat this alarming phenomenon, but fraud continues. In this regard, I ask you to answer: how many have been captured by the rogues since the beginning of the year and how much money have they been able to embezzle? Compared to last year, what is the trend, what trend are we seeing, and what measures will the Ministry of Interior take to counter the increasingly inventive Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u86	Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Alexandrova! The fraud is second in distribution after the theft of a crime against property. In recent years, a special update has acquired phone fraud. You are entitled. These crimes represent about 30% of all registered frauds. These are crimes with high financial, moral and social costs for victims, who are mostly elderly people, you are rights. Statistical data on registered phone fraud in the period until the end of the sixth month this year. According to central police statistics, registered phone fraud in the sixth month of 2017 is 406, compared to 380 for the same period of 2016, or about 7%, if I think well, by 7% is the increase. 61 crimes were solved, or 15.2% of those registered during the period compared to 27 last year, representing 7%. In other words, there is an increase in the disclosure rate of a little over 7 - 8%. 47 persons who committed such crimes were identified compared to 19 during the same period last year. In 2016 a total of 18 409 phone calls for telephone fraud and attempted phone fraud were received on phone 112, and for the period until 11 May this year, 7734 were received. If we multiply it times the months and in the second half, maybe it'll even out, but a little less than 18,000 will be certain. The Ministry of Interior does not conduct official statistics on the incriminating amounts you asked for, but according to estimates, the property damage caused for 2017 exceeds 2 million. And 800 thousand. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (1) of the Treaty. lv. Unitary amounts, with which citizens are damaged, vary in the range from several hundred to several tens of thousands BGN. Trends. In general, the main trend in telephone fraud is the migration of the contingent into the territory of the Republic of Romania, as in committing the crimes for which they use, you know, SIM cards from Romania. There are also cases of phone fraud committed on the territory of the Republic of Serbia with SIM cards, however, by Bulgarian mobile operators. Currently, information is also available in the Ministry of Interior about the movement of persons from the active criminal contingent on the Bulgarian Black Sea coast, where they carry out their criminal activities, taking advantage of the workload of resorts with tourists. The policy in this direction of the Ministry of Interior is forming an independent sector with an order from the Minister of Interior................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, in whose territory the criminal contingent is concentrated under the Ministry of Interior, telephone fraud is a separate unit to counter this new criminal activity. By mid-July 2017, a total of 13 police operations to counter telephone fraud were organised with 10 DVR district directorates. In 2017 from the sector "Izmami" were held workshops with representatives of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office, Sofia City Court, as well as representatives of the DATO, the National Investigation Service and the Bureau of Control of the SRS. On the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Interior cooperates directly with the mobile operators, with the NRA, with the Department of National System 112. Of course, we are in touch with Romanian colleagues for these notorious maps of theirs, if possible, working and there to be reduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. In fact, it becomes clear that we do not have much improvement in this area, which is quite disturbing and quite frightening. We appreciate your efforts, and we will continue from the United Patriarchs to monitor the situation and ask you about it. We very much hope that you will succeed in reducing these crimes, because they are really targeting our parents, grandparents and it is so unacceptable that this is happening to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u89	Would you like a duplicate, Minister? Yeah. Please, you have the floor. You have two minutes that you can take advantage of.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u90	Thank you. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Alexandrova! I only took the floor one thing to say. I can't understand how our parents, elderly people, and younger ones, manage to be lied to and to throw such funds. I turn to them and from this tribune to stop giving money to such frauds they use, I only talk about those who use the Ministry of Interior that they want to help. The scam is such a scam. I beg you in connection with a police operation, throw money away and so on. Let them know that the police don't work with that kind of money. At least two people will come to you if there is a case when we do not use our own money. Usually they're state's, they're marked and so on. I'm telling some details, but it's very important that these people hear it. Because they noblely, heartily help the Ministry of Interior, and the authorities that protect us all, give this money. Don't let them do it! We work on our own resources. Where we work not to set an example, with kidnapping and so on, no one usually talks to you on the phone, comes at least two, three, they see them. They work for a long time and then they give money. Don't let them do it! We continue the battle. I agree with you, they're growing slightly. What we do, including Romanians and Serbian colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There is a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov about physical aggression and Nazi greetings from a student to a teacher. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, colleagues! My question to you is about physical aggression and Nazi greetings from a student to a teacher. On 20 June Mrs. Bogomolika Nikolova, who is a teacher of ethics and law at Sofia Professional School of Tourism, was attacked and brutally hit by 16-year-old Martin in the teacher's room in front of her colleagues. According to the school director Mrs. Antoinette Joneva in a statement to the media, several days before the incident itself Martin was a little restless, after which she ordered a meeting with the Pedagogical Council. Minister, I've done some research on what happened, and I've established the following circumstances. Four or five days before the attack, Martin showed aggression, kicked the coffee machine in the hallway of the school, yelled and violently disagreed with his poor assessment. And more than that, he's beating up the school's school teacher on duty. After having a meeting and a conversation with the Pedagogical Advisor it is found that he is well, even allowing him and sending him practically on cooking. Days later during a conversation with Martin, one of his parents, the teacher and the pedagogical advisor, he again exhibits extreme aggression, runs away from the meeting, yelling, "I'm going to kill everyone, starts hitting on the walls of the school, smashes a partition wall and slits his hand. Then he breaks into the classroom and sees Mrs. Bogomika Nikolova hit her hard with his foot, screaming "Die!" He grabs a chair and reaches for it again. Hits Mrs. Nikolova's leg, as well as another teacher's head, screaming, "I don't want to be tolerant." After the appearance of the district inspector Martin was seized, but before being handcuffed, leaving the teacher's room, notice, he sends his greetings with his hand up. Two days later, a pedagogical council was held to determine Martin's punishment in the presence of Deputy Minister Tanya Mihailova and Head of the Regional Management of Education "Sofia-City," Mrs. Vanya Kastreva. In this regard, my question to you is: Does the Ministry of Interior have information about the existence of skinheads or neo-Nazi organizations on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and whether you are familiar with the existence and content of the Paris Peace Treaty of 1948, particularly with its clauses concerning Bulgaria?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u93	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, on 20 July 2017, as you said, I will not tell the case, I will only note that in the course of the investigation it was found that during the planned meeting you said the student exploded and headed to the teacher's room where he threw a chair, kicked one of his teachers out. The signal to the police authorities was issued just minutes before the incident, which resulted in the student being detained in the Fifth District Department of the SDVR, with a police order for up to 24 hours. With regard to the claim that before handcuffing, the student made a high-arm salute to the fact that heil Hitler did not respond to objective truth either, as he volunteered to put his hands behind his back after a command by the police officer. On 21 June 2017, the materials were reported to the Sofia District Prosecutor's Office and the person was charged. The Ministry of Interior has no data on the existence of neo-Nazi organizations in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and currently does not collect statistics on such acts. Education and education processes are a key factor in tearing away teenagers from different unconventional and tempting suggestions related to radicalisation, terrorism and other ideological ones, which this case is probably entering. Since 2000, specialized police officers for working with children in the Ministry of Interior, the inspectors from children's pedagogical rooms have been conducting active and targeted preventive work in educational institutions, implementing the National Program. The goals set are to build models for the safe behavior of adolescents, create a positive attitude towards the police and its activities and familiarize students with their age with the initial elementary legal concepts. The program includes topics related to the safety of children at home, on the street, dangerous strangers what they do with them, road safety, drugs, human trafficking, prostitution and so on. When updating the Programme in 2015, some of the new topics included in it are prevention of manifestations of extremism and tolerance in a multicultural environment. The Ministry of Interior, together with the State Agency of National Security and the Central Commission for the Fight against Anti-Society Events of Minors, have conducted training of specialized police officers to work with children for identification and follow-up work with underage children, sharing ideas or belonging to extremist or radical organisations, or doubting this. Although the Bulgarian society does not accept the extreme ideologies in any form, it is written where you pointed out in the document, it cannot be excluded that individual members of this society or foreign citizens residing in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria will become empathetic to the preparation and essence of such activities. In case of specific events such as these, so-called hate crimes, related to extremism, the Ministry of Interior shall conduct a rapid and timely exchange of information with the employees of the State Agency on the basis of Chapter Two, art. 4, para. 1, t. 13 of the State Agency Act, because one of its functions is related to activities of groups and persons assisting foreign services, terrorist and extreme organizations, so we work with them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ibryamov, you have the floor for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u96	Madam President, Mr Minister, colleagues! I'm surprised they gave you misleading information, Mr. Minister. The student himself admits to being a member of such an organization. Even more so, the principal and vice principal of the school know about it. During an hour - an occupation where tolerance is spoken of, he himself presents a lecture in which he approves the actions of the neo-Nazi organization from Hitler's time. That's why it was my question. Two months ago in the European Parliament, Mr. Minister, a new declaration against racism and intolerance was adopted, it is nice to get acquainted with it, against anti-Semitic actions based on the Paris Peace Treaty, in which Bulgaria as a country accepts the following political clauses, one of which states: Moreover, Minister, a few days ago on September 15th, there was a pogrom on the Jewish cemeteries in Bulgaria. There was only an apology note from the Foreign Office. You, as Minister of the Interior, are obliged to expose the perpetrators. Because if we've witnessed individual acts so far, that's what we're talking about. In my opinion, and according to our colleagues, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, these acts will not decrease, but will increase. This is an alarming fact for Bulgaria, given our Presidency of the Council of the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u97	That was Jayhan Ibryamov's line. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Ibryamov, you're right. Thank you for reading and art. 11 of the Paris Treaty, 1947. That's right, we've said that, the fascist organizations are disbanded. I said statistics, we don't even collect statistics. We believe we won't, that's our intel. Maybe you have some other information about the case. If you have, give it to me, but what we've checked, I reported it exactly and said that immediately, a few minutes later, a police inspector went and so on. I also listened to the declaration of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms by its leader today. I agree. We are trying, mainly with preventive activity, because it is a process that can escalate. If we don't follow him, if society doesn't follow him, through us and other institutions, a lot of bad things can happen. So I understand the direction of your question, your concern. I agree with those of you, we're doing the best we can, and most of all, on the case that I've reported to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u99	Thank you, dear Minister. Next is a question from the MPs Slavcho Velkov, Kolyo Milev, Elena Yoncheva and Spas Panchev about the state of the engineering-prevention facility at the Bulgarian-Turkish border as of August 2017. Here you are, dear Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, an engineering and suburban facility along the Bulgarian-Turkish border is an important part of the national security system, regardless of speculation from yesterday and the last days in neighbouring Turkey, that it is a wall of shame and that it is unacceptable to build such facilities in the 21st century, all the more so that it is perceived as a means of oppression by the countries of the European Union. I would like to say that with a necessary sense of respect for your highly responsible mission and empathy for the tiredness you are experiencing, I very much hope that you will answer the question that we are asking with my colleagues, and thus finally put an end to the debates regarding the so-called "Voice of the Bulgarian-Turkish border', all the more so that the President of the parliamentary group of GERB once stated that the land border is 242 km, after that the facility is 234 km, that it is irresistible, that the pressure of migration flows is zero, we are witnessing the fact that people are constantly being detained who have crossed the border, and the number of those who are detained at the Bulgarian-Serb border many times, in excess of that of those detained at the Turkish-Bulgarian border. In this regard, I ask you to answer our question, which is, of course, the derivative of dynamic changes in the security environment, and especially in the upcoming European Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria and the security of the external border of the European Union, what is the state of the engineering-prevention facility at the end of August. The degree of completion in km, quality, security serving it special equipment and the integrated information system? If there are sections that aren't built, don't point out where they are, but let me know if they are. In this way, we will not direct those who want to cross over. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u101	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u102	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yoncheva, Mr. Velkov, Mr. Milev and Mr. Panchev! Here are the data: there are 42 km 753 m for the territory of Haskovo region, of which 31 213 m are along the land border and 11 540 m along the river border. At the moment, there are exactly 1 km of construction, I'll say where, there we amplify and guard. If you want, but okay, I'll keep it quiet. For the territory of Yambol district, the completely ready sections of engineering obstruction facilities are 65 km, 30 of them are built and 30 additional of these are built, you know, by the Ministry of Defence. On the territory of Burgas region are completely ready sections 126 km 208 m, of which 66 km 808 m land border and 59 km 400 m river border. The total length of the constructed facility, the exact number is 233 km 961 m or 234 km for easier. As regards the quality of the engineering and obstruction facilities, it should be noted that, according to the pre-designed tasks of the Directorate-General for Border Police, on the basis of which the projects for the respective regional managers have been developed pursuant to Decree No 55 of 12 March 2015, the district managers have the commitment of a five-year maintenance guarantee for the engineering and obstruction facility, but it does not include the maintenance of damage caused by an attempt to overcome it, and so on. 10 portable sprinklers, mobile sprinklers, which are attached to automatic equipment and specialized preparation for the treatment of grasses and light shrubs, are provided for the service of the built facility. A shredder is also provided, as it is said, intended to use the area of responsibility of the border control in Malko Tarnovo, which destroys shrubs up to 8 cm thick, as well as eight portable motor saws. In all major police stations around Elhovo every day are planned and broadcast border police patrols to check the integrity of the fence facility and its separate portals, you know there are. The engineering impeding facility along the Bulgarian Turkish border is built so that for the most part it falls within the scope of the built, you mentioned an integrated surveillance system through which additional control is carried out besides the broadcasts of border police units in its condition. You know what the problem is with this integrated system. There are still competitions at the moment and of that 320 million. lv. European solidarity will further increase the facility. The mechanical is already built, it remains to be filled with additional equipment. So far, we've got thermovisions, and things, you know, from part of this system, which, due to the interruption of maintenance, didn't work. But in many places, it works, somewhere, not to say them, as you said, and you're right, the system doesn't work, and we're running patrols there, including the 68th Brigade right now by the Department of Defense, helping Border Patrol. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, fellow Members, asking the question. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u104	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, as we understand from your answer, the fence has not yet been rebuilt and therefore we should not make hasty statements that 100% of the facility is built and fulfills its purpose. I would like to point out here that at the beginning of the construction of the fence began with formations of the Bulgarian Army and those 30 33 km, which were built for a price of 250 thousand per kilometer, show that the Army then managed, and very successfully with the performance of this task and at very low prices. I would like to say here in front of everyone and before the Bulgarian people that we owe an apology to the Bulgarian Army and to the servicemen who participated in the construction of the fence, even to the colleagues from the engineering formations, and especially to these senior officers and two generals who were accused of having hardly slowed down or hone the fence. A simple account shows that the next kilometers with which it is finished, or what is done, is worth not less than 950, exactly 956 thousand. lv. Do the math, it's almost four times the cost of building. I, as an engineering officer, can say that this engineering facility, in order to carry out its purpose, it is necessary for it to provide and implement a complex of events and they are laid down, but for this purpose a lot of money is needed. It is because of this that there are constantly pickings or such sections that migrants can pass through and we see that over 2,000. 600 people since the beginning of the year have requested asylum in Bulgaria and they have nowhere to go. It's the same thing from the Serbian border. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So, Dear Minister, do you think that we still owe some apology to the Bulgarian Army servicemen who participated in the construction of this facility, and do we have the strength in the future to maintain it 100% with the completion of this integrated system for...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u105	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Here you go, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable Member Milev, and other Members of the National Assembly. You shouldn't have asked me if we should apologize to the Bulgarian Army. Because I will immediately answer that BSP should apologize to the Bulgarian Army and those who invented this scheme army in this kind of professional army to build an engineering facility. And you shouldn't have asked me about the price. You are a general, I am an economist, the price of the fence or the engineering facility built by the Bulgarian Army, the 30 km is more expensive than the current fence. Four times you say it's more expensive now the built is not true. Once again, I address you as an ex-military officer, if we consider the gaps of the Army that has gone there, I will not enter why she went there and who forced these people to go to build the fence, what they missed, if you calculate all this, and it is very difficult to calculate, but I may, at some point I will do it safely, because you asked me and so emotionally speak to you on the subject. So we apologize to them for making them do something unnatural instead of doing their own work. Something else I didn't answer before. You said, Mr. Velkov, I think you have more caught on the Serbian border than the Turkish that are entering. Yeah, it's a constant problem, sitting on my desk and watching it all the time in the morning and I'm watching it. Yes, but most of them, for your information and for viewers and listeners, a lot of them are registered in AFIS, they just don't want to stay in the country and leave. Of course, there are those we can't catch. In no country can we stop them 100%, you know, and before that it was when there was no such engineering facility. This is the small nuance that I wanted to highlight.. we are very careful about this because in Europe, given the Presidency, I am constantly being asked as a member of this Justice and Home Affairs Council:... What are you doing with traffic, are you doing well?....... and we are constantly proving with information, not from us, but from Frontex, that we are doing well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u107	Thank you, Minister. Next is a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva on measures of the Ministry of Interior against the dangerous distribution of the Internet game. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u108	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! Since the beginning of the year, there have been numerous news and comments on the distribution of the Internet game "Sin whale" in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Experts call the game the New Russian Roulette, it is extremely dangerous and spreads rapidly among teenagers not only in Bulgaria, but also in other European countries. The inclusion takes place in social networks, children receive tasks in the form of challenges, and the latter is an urge to commit suicide. There are two opposites in society. The first is that the game does not exist; that it is a marketing trick or mass psychosis. The second is that the game is real and is already taking many sacrifices. Which one is true, only the services can say. The fact is, unfortunately, at my reception on the eve of the new school year came very excited and stressed parents for the safety of their children. They are concerned about the tragedy of the suicide on 4 September 2017. 11-year-old boy in town. Shooter. It is said to have motivated the fatal act precisely from the game "Sin whale". Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The subject is extremely important because it creates a much more serious problem, namely the problem of the security of our children in the Internet. For those born in the new century, online space is a reality. It motivates their actions, their actions. Agree with me, losing control of the processes there can result in fatal consequences quickly. Therefore, I ask the following questions: is there data from the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria about the existence of a game "Sin whale" on the territory of our country? Is its spread monitored and what measures are being taken to prevent the dangerous consequences of it for the health and life of Bulgarian children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u110	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Halacheva! At the beginning of 2017, Bulgarian sites profiting from attracting users through sensational titles published the theme of the existence of the online game, under the name, as you said, "Sin whale." According to the authors, the game forces teenagers to perform the tasks assigned to them, with the consequences being suicidal. The information is not backed up by journalistic investigations, specific cases and facts. The only goal is to search for sensations from published materials on the Internet, mostly from Russian sites. The first data on the existence of such a game dates back to the end of 2015, when Russian electronic media speculate on the murder of a 16-year-old girl. During this period in the Russian social network "In contact". Thus it is said that groups are emerging with the name of Hajtags........................................................................................... Photos are published with a cut-off whale, even a video to prevent suicides that never happened. In order to carry out the main activities of the Ministry of Interior, the Directorate-General for Organized Crime has continued the established practice for conducting effective prevention in countering cybercrime with all relevant institutions and organizations. On February 21, 2017 from the Directorate General for Organized Crime on the website www.sibercrime.bg a common position was published on the topic "Sin whale." Anyone who wants to get acquainted with the text, where the information that has been released on the Internet has been disproved and specific advice to parents and users has been offered. The Directorate-General for Organized Crime is implementing a public-private partnership with non-governmental organizations in order to improve the security of citizens on the Internet. The expressed position on the topic "Sin Kit" is shared and distributed at the National Centre for Safer Internet.bg, and a hotline for Safer Internet "Sin Kit" web112.net, through which information exchange is carried out. Interviews and statements have been given to Bulgarian media repeatedly by experts from the General Directorate of Organized Crime. Employees of this Directorate continue the established practice of conducting lectures and lectures among young people in educational institutions across the country on topics related to the safe use of the Internet. The Directorate-General for Organized Crime is carrying out part of its preventive activities both on its official website for combating computer crime.. I mentioned to you, www.sibercrime.bg, as well as on its Facebook page, www.sibercrime.bg. At present, in the Directorate General for Organized Crime and the European Union partner services, from Russia, there have been no specific signals of presence and distribution through the social networks of this game. In conclusion, I will summarize that the topic "Sin Whale" is overexposed in an attempt to attract the attention of consumers with purely commercial purpose, without being backed up with any concrete evidence and facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u111	Thank you, Minister Radev. Here's a line, Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I welcome your actions related to solving the problem and the fact that you have reassured the public and the parents whose concerns exist. I believe that in the event of a threat to the lives of our children, the services should respond adequately to this threat. That's why I congratulate you on the measures taken. Today, more than 75% of the fourth graders in Bulgaria also have registrations in social networks. According to UNICEF research, there are 220 thousand children on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. They're 10-11 years old. Despite the registration rules that do not allow them to have social networking profiles, it turns out that it is not respected. I ask: who can control this and based on what legal basis? Are there any gaps in our legislation? Agree with me, threats on the Internet can quickly get out of hand, especially today, when many Bulgarian parents for reasons known to all of us are away from their children, cannot monitor and control their behavior on the Internet. Dealing with the problem of our children's security in cyberspace requires real insight and serious dialogue. That is why I propose that, in a meeting of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports, we make a hearing to you and your experts on the issue of cybersecurity. I also believe that we can take advantage of the competence of our commissioner, whose portfolio is cybersecurity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. There was an offer, Mr. Minister. Would you like a duplicate?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u114	Thank you for inviting me. Perhaps if you invite us, we will respond or come, I mentioned what we are doing, but do not expect us to be able to monitor all these children's registrations. Excuse me for saying this, I've mentioned it a few times, but they have a duty both families and teachers and educators and everyone in the chain before it comes to the Ministry of Interior. And what we're doing specifically, I've put it right in front of you. I can always add, of course, details with my colleagues, and if you invite us, we will gladly come to discuss this particularly important subject. Although it is not a priority, and to supplement, the Presidency. There are two other topics, actually three. One is terrorism, the other is migration, and the third is border security, but cybercrime and fighting it is an international battle. It will also take place on European soil, and in our country we will have to do what is necessary in any way related to these systems. So thank you for your focus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u115	We should thank Mr. Valentin Radev for his participation in this parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. He will answer a question of the National Representative Dora Yankova regarding the management of the Water Association. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, to ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u116	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, my question is about the management of the Water Association Smolyan. On 1 May 2017, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission increased the supply price of drinking water from BGN 0,99. without VAT at BGN 1.26 without VAT or BGN 1,51 with VAT. We know the procedure in which this has to happen. Five months in my electoral district goes a discussion whether this fee is legal or not. It is clear to everyone that the legal decision to decide to establish the business plan from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2021 was taken on 10 September. I mean, four months later. And in order to increase the price, the initiative must come from the operator, and before that a public debate has been made with the local authorities, as you said in public yesterday, and as the minister expressed his opinion as authorising, according to art. 198, the governor who represents you in this Association. I asked it this way for a reason: is there a violation of the Water Act? Because there is a protocol in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission that says that there is a solution for validating the business plan before May, and August is established the business plan itself. I want your competent answer, relying on us to speak here in the legislative body, in the National Assembly. Is the law followed and how it is observed? Are there any violations?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Come in for an answer, dear Mr. Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, the operator's business plan was examined and put to the vote at a meeting of the General Assembly of the Association for Water and Water, as you well know, on 20 October 2016. Due to the incorrect coverage in the minutes of the way the representatives, members of the Association, correctly mentioned, on 10 August 2017, a new meeting of the Association for Coordination of the Business Plan for the regulatory period from 1 January 2017 to 31 December 2021 took place. The business plan of VIK Ltd. is approved by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The total investment foreseen for the period amounted to 10,744 million. BGN, of which more than 4.3 million lv. For water supply, 5.1 million. lv. for sewerage and about 233 thousand. lv. they're for purification. The prices established by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission for the provision of services by You mentioned BGN 1,259. on a cube. m. For consumers connected to the sewerage network, the cost of waste water removal is within BGN 0,094. on a cube. m. For the settlements with waste water treatment plants, the price of accession for domestic users is BGN 0,527. on a cube. m. For industrial and other business users, depending on the degree of pollution, is BGN 0,738. on a cube. M. to 0,319 BGN, i.e. 32 s. per cubic meter. For the completion of the water infrastructure in Smolyan will be realized the project - long-awaited in my opinion - and by my contacts with the residents of Smolyan district and especially of Smolyan Municipality, funded by Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 - 2020 "The project will be achieved in compliance with the European Union directives in the field of drinking water, waste water disposal and sewage treatment and ensuring the sustainability of the water operator in the management and operation of the water systems and facilities, and of course in the provision of adequate water services. In December 2016, a preliminary agreement was signed with the beneficiary of the Operational Programme, namely "ViK "Smolyan" Ltd. and the Ministry of Environment and Water, as managing body of the Programme for the project and is currently preparing the project proposal for funding. In 2017 it is expected to announce the procedure for a regional investment water and sewerage project for the separate territory of VikiSmolyan and the water and sewerage operator Ltd., Smolyan, to submit a project proposal worth more than 60 million. lv. without VAT. The co-financing of the project is included in the business plan of the water operator, which is agreed with the Association of Water and Waters Smolyan. By the end of 2017, the Association for Water and Waters Smolyan should come up with a decision that it agrees with the water and water operator to apply and implement the project. And I'm going to graduate, and I know I'm running out of time, so I'm going to answer to the point: the Ministry is not a court to answer, is there a violation or not? There is certainly an administrative infringement in this case: an administrative infringement under the procedure signed for the adoption of these decisions, for the validation of business plans and applications for the price to them. Yes, it is a fact that there is an administrative violation corrected at a meeting and with a protocol decision of the Association from August 2017. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u119	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u120	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! Yes, there is a violation that costs very dearly to the residents of Smolyan region. Five months pay an illegally increased price. And now I understand that you are in a very delicate situation, as there has been a transition of a minister, and now it is you. I want to understand philosophy: does the Ministry of Regional Development tolerate false protocols? Will this continue to mislead the KEWRC, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, and an entire large group of If they're coming, they're coming by the book. In other words, the local communities, I appeal to them, to be awakened when discussing the business plans of the water service, because they are the employers of the water service. Secondly, it is very clear in the Law that before the meeting of the Association starts, the Regional Governor must be duly empowered by you for the state policy that will take place. And then, after the meeting is over, the governor must inform you with a report, as a representative of the state, what decisions have been taken. That is, you have enough weight not as a court, but to say with this business plan not to rush the KEWRC with false documents, cannot enter the KEWRC. Moreover, the KEWRC itself is having a public discussion, where the head of the water service, the Secretary General and the Secretary of the Association are attending and saying that everything is okay. It is misled by people appointed by you to the water service operator is appointed by the Minister and the Secretary of the Association is appointed by the authorized person. I would like to ask you, as a minister who follows the laws, to intervene in this case. To intervene and to resolve with the KEWRC the issue either to catch the money or to return to the people if we will have a legal state with order and rules. If there's going to be an increase, then all of this will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u121	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Here's your coat, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u122	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Yankova! That is why with the amendments to the Water Act from 2009, as we go through 2015 and get to the latest amendments to the Law, it is precisely the order of which you mentioned. You quoted in yesterday or the other day my statements what is the philosophy of coordination of business plans, statements about raising the price of water to them or changing the price, not always with a plus sign, and sometimes with a minus sign. The Associations under the Water and Water Act open the clamp, are that balance between the two interests of the state and the municipal. The state as a global policy, municipal representation of the local authorities and the local community, not only by the infrastructure it operates, operates, manages by the water operators, but also by the contracts concluded with the water operators and, of course, by the applications for the price to the business plans. In this regard, I will consult with you, as you mentioned a procedure which is not listed in any regulations, by the way. I'll consult. I suppose you have expertise that you could help us with, as it is not legally signed. I propose that we do the same with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in order to assess their position on the case, because if you consider that there is not an administrative but a legal violation here, we could also refer to other bodies. I'm going to go back a little bit in time, 9 years ago in Smolyan District...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u123	You don't have much time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u124	If I may, just two sentences, Madam President?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u125	Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u126	The cost of water is at the same levels as nine years ago. In no way have it taken into account the operating costs, the increase of a minimum, the average wage in this 9-year period. We need to give a very good and clear account that the cost of water in these conditions does not increase dramatically, but with indexes within 5, 6, 10 years with 5.10 years, with proven needs for investment in infrastructure in the field is a process for which we have to explain to everyone in the Bulgarian society that this is a long-term effect which leads only to improvement of the service, respectively to improving the infrastructure and water systems and facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u127	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Next is a question from MP Petar Kanev about the road Tsarevo.. Malko Tarnovo from km 56+860 to km 114+0,60 with a total length of 57 kilometers. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u128	Thank you. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, honourable President! It's not a new question. Dear Mr. Nankov, on 17 February 2016 I asked a question about the poor operational state of Tsarevo road. Since then, with the exception of some very minor patching, no other serious measures have been taken to improve it. Road infrastructure deteriorates every day and this creates prerequisites for road accidents. At present, in this area the asphalt cover is worn, with holes, cracks, deformations and slides. So once again, I ask the question about the Tsarevo road, which passes through the most beautiful area of Paroria near Strandzha. This time it is also the direct link between the Malko Tarnovo checkpoint and the settlements on the southern Black Sea coast. The improvement of infrastructure will give a very serious impetus to tourism in the constituent settlements of the two municipalities. In view of the above, I ask once again to answer the following question: Do you intend in 2017 to carry out repair and reconstruction activities, rehabilitation or major repair of the road Tsarevo, Malko Tarnovo?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u129	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u130	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kanev! Second-class road 2-99 Burgas is part of the Republican road network on the territory only and only of Burgas region. In the Tsarevo section "Gramatikovo," Malko Tarnovo from km 58 to 114.1 major renovation has not been done for more than 40 years, therefore the asphalt flooring is not just worn out, but is heavily depreciated and in very poor condition. A permanent improvement in the technical and operational state of the road can be achieved with its complete rehabilitation.. not with ongoing repair and maintenance, so you correctly formulated the question for which a preliminary expert assessment is needed because there is no technical project available. I have followed and reviewed all the answers to your questions so far and there is currently no technical or work project available, i.e. an investment project. The necessary funds of 19,6 million. lv. are indicative, but realistic. I mentioned that at the moment there is no investment project for the site. For comfort, however, the Agency and after talks, because two months ago I was in Burgas with the MPs Boychev, Vasileva, also with you, in 2017, we included and proposed for design the section from 58 to 114 km to have the necessary technical documentation. This is the first step for the complete completion of the object. Given the importance of the road to providing convenient transport for residents of the region, but to a greater extent to provide convenient and easier transport for tourists on our southern Black Sea coast, that is, one unique from a natural-geographical and historical-geographical point of view near the Strandzha region, opportunities will be sought for funding through its inclusion in the repair programme in 2018, after obtaining all the necessary permits and drawing up the technical project I mentioned. In the meantime, with a view to ensuring the passage of road and traffic safety, the road section is being cared for within the available financial resource. lv. with VAT. I won't read them, but they are: earthly works, earth trench cleaning, palliative measures, as to maintain the road in a fit operational state. I mentioned this on-going repair and maintenance on a road, unrepaired for more than 40 years, is a palatial solution. The global decision will take place after the project has been drawn up, after detailed quantitative-value accounts, after a construction permit is issued and after its implementation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u131	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Dear Mr. Kanev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u132	Mr. Minister, you sound rather optimistic. I hope I don't have to ask the same question next year at the same time! I think a quiet year is enough time not only to do the pre-project design and design itself, to remove the permits, but also to start working on the way. That the road was in a fit operational state, when you pass there, if you have fillings, you will be left without them. Now I want to do a little differently within the remaining minute and 30 seconds. I wonder how to motivate you to really find opportunities and resources the most beautiful mountain I would say, the so-called sacred Greek-Thracian mountain Strandzha. With a total area of more than 10,000. kv. km, I mean in both the Bulgarian and Turkish parts, to open it for tourists on our Black Sea coast. A little unconventionally now I will approach, but first, this is the only European mountain from which rivers flow, which flow into three seas - Black, Marble and Aegean. Secondly, this is a mountain with exceptional, incredibly geological and biodiversity. Ancient copper and hard fields, the world's first metallurgy. Third, it is very complex as relief. At first glance, the relief is a polygraph, but with very difficult passable areas, many river valleys, with 120 springs, 74 caves. The famous park of Strangzha, famous not only by the Coral and by the construction works, but also by the fact that it is 1 million. 160,000. Dka amazing mountain with over 200 years of forest, with over 1300 species of plants, of which 70 thrive only there. To tell you the truth, by adding cultural and historical heritage, the famous locality Mishkova levels, we add the nestinarism, we add the largest cluster of dolmen in Bulgaria, I wonder how to motivate you again I say that I approach unconventionally, to make efforts for it because this time is extremely important. It is important not only for the local population, it is important for everyone. He's not a party guy this time. I'm asking a question. You're the third minister. I hope we don't get to the point that next year I'm the fourth minister to ask this question!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u133	I'm sorry, but your time has run out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u134	And one more time: I'm counting!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u135	That was Mr. Kanev's line and argument. Here you are, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u136	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Kanev! I am aware that you are a Member of Parliament from Burgas election district. If we ask Mr. Gökov, Mr. Ermenkov and all MPs from Coalition.BSP for Bulgaria.................................. each of you could list unique and natural-geographical, and socio-economic characteristics of your constituency, such as conditions for tourism development, conditions sometimes for doing business. Yeah, I understand the pathos you're talking to. I mentioned the amount needed for the repairs. I mentioned that at least in 2017 activities were actually launched, not pre-project studies, but technical design. If we're going along with the logic of the current renovation, I mentioned what funds have been put into place at the moment. There is no need for design, there is no need for procedures under the Law on Device in the Area, but we will not resolve the problem again.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u137	Say 2018!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u138	Stay in your hopes! [[Relations from the National Representative Petar Kanev.]] Stay! I am convinced that we will satisfy and fulfill your expectations. And whether next year you will ask the question to the next minister, 2018 the road will not happen. The road will start with its realization. The other is conjecture and hypotheses. Let's be safe! All the best! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u139	Thank you, dear Minister! The next question is from the MP Georgi Gokov about the urgent need to carry out a major renovation of part of Republican Road III-5031 Opan Galabovo, in the regulation of the town of Galabovo. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u140	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We continue with the series of questions, Mr. Minister, about the roads. With this road network, there's no other way. This time the question is about Stara Zagora region, not Burgas region. I ask you one time, which, since I have been a Member of the National Assembly since the fourth year, I have asked the question of its repair for the fifth time in a row to the third Minister in a row. So far, I haven't received an adequate answer, and the only adequate answer is: we're going to do road repairs. Leave the answers to the questions, but the people who live there are desperate. It is about Republican Road III-5031, which is a third-class road, part of the Republican Road Network of Bulgaria, passes entirely into the territory of Stara Zagora region. Its length is 17 kilometers. I'm not gonna explain where the road is, people know it, and you know it. In 2009, on this road, Opan Galabovo was initiated rehabilitation, but it remains unfinished, as the export resistant asphalt layer was not laid down. Today the road is crumbling, and soon it will have to be refurbished. As is clear from my question, I no longer ask for repair of the entire road, which, as I said, is 17 kilometers, but only for repairing part of it, which passes into the regulation of the town of Galabovo, part of Blvd. "St. Svetlina," ul. "Detelina" and "Detelina" Str. Tsar Simeon the Great, whose total length is six hundred meters. In 2011 the municipality of Galabovo carried out part of the necessary repairs along the route of Galabovo Blvd. The other kilometers and the other 300 meters are in a miserable state and its operating condition is so bad that there are even areas that lack any pavement. Some of these sections are no different from the Polish road. There hasn't been a renovation there for more than twenty-five years. This is the reason why there is virtually no connection between the two Republican roads: Galabovo When do you plan to carry out the necessary urgent, major repairs of this section of the Republican Road in the regulation of the town of Galabovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u141	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, another question from you about road infrastructure in Stara Zagora. Already on previous ones, we clarified that Stara Zagora still stands, from the point of view of the Republican road infrastructure, quite of its quality, of course, built with support is much better compared to even neighbouring areas, but compared to all areas of Northern Bulgaria... I will answer the specific question that you have been asking as a Member of the National Assembly for four years. I may, when I return to Mr. Kanev's previous reply, four years as a minister, I will reply to you a little more specifically and really with fulfilled commitments about the current road, but a few words about it too. The Agency, of course, takes into account its unsatisfactory condition, mostly on the stretch of a mile long and six hundred meters in the regulation of the town of Galabovo. The parts of road III-5031 in the features of Galabovo, in need of repair, are from km 16+100 to km 16+200 and from km 16+600 to km 18+300. The Road Infrastructure Agency takes care of the road network in the territory of Stara Zagora district within the approved budget. In 2017, a total of 65 168 BGN were invested on the third-class road, of which 49 312 BGN for partial repair of the pavement and for mowing in the most critical sections and 15 856 BGN are for marking in this section, which I mentioned. The Republican roads on the territory of Stara Zagora region have a total length of over 880 kilometers. During this year on the territory of the Roads I, II and III class for activities in current repair and maintenance were spent BGN 1 549 000. with VAT, which is twice as much as the funds allocated in 2016. Another 255 thousand levs with VAT have been added to the horizontal marking. Activities have been carried out to restore and replace road signs worth 123 thousand BGN. Particular attention shall be paid to road safety. For the first eight months of 2017 under a contract for the supply and installation of restrictive systems on the Republican road network, the so-called We must not forget that they were built within this year for forty-five days two additional connections of road node - Plovdovitovo, with which the connection of highways is provided by Trakiya, and Maritsa - from Burgas, Svilengrad and the municipalities Prvomay, Chirpan and Bratia Daskalovi. The facility makes it considerably easier for drivers and saves more than 40 kilometers to travelers. Upon completion of the active summer season, a major repair of the most compromised sections of the highway is envisaged. We hope to start within a few days. In order to improve the operational state of the section of road II-55 Veliko Tarnovo in the regulation of the town of Gurkovo. Gurkovo, the Agency has included the site in the list of target funding sections, this is the so-called "Gurkovo's approach." According to an expert assessment about 4 million levs are needed, so within the available resource, which the Agency has, which for Stara Zagora in 2017 is not enough, but is exclusively against the background of the allocated resource in the other areas. For road III-5031, opportunities will be sought for their inclusion in the construction program in 2018 -2019 after the introduction of tol fees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u143	Thank you, dear Minister! Mr. Gokov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I'm aware of everything you've said. This answer that you have given me, you can safely tell me about my next question, because it is again for such a time, only it is funny that correspondence is being conducted, parliamentary questions are being asked and so on for four years for one kilometer and three hundred meters in the regulation of a Bulgarian city, which is in an extremely miserable state, has not been repaired for more than twenty-five years. You know, Mr. Minister, the people of Galabovo, which is a small but neat and arranged town, generally do not know that these parts of Blvd. "St. Svetlina," ul. "Detelina," ul. Tsar Simeon the Great is owned by the state, not by the municipality and the mayor and the municipal leadership curse, and they are not even allowed to spend municipal money on its renovation because it is not their property. The mayor and the municipal leadership are fit and sustainable and people have chosen them for a fourth term. So, Minister, I'm beginning to think that this renovation is deliberately not being carried out in order to destroy the confidence of the mayor and the municipal leadership of Galabovo Municipality, which is definitely not from the ruling political power. I hope I'm wrong, but what else to think when it comes to a mile and a half. I can even tell you that Mrs. Pavlova, as a candidate for a Member of the Parliament from the twenty-seventh Multi-mandated Election Region, in the 2014 parliamentary elections, promised the renovation and the people were waiting for a long time, but alas, the promise is not like fulfilling the promises. You know the story. No one can give you what I can promise you. That's the way it is, Minister, with this time. I'm not going to stop repeating it, because it's a funny length of road for years, requests, promises, non-fulfilling promises, and I don't know, now people are probably looking and they're still not going to know when this time will be made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov! Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u146	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, once is a kilometer and 300 meters, another is 30 kilometers, third is 40. What can I say? Speaking of a tour and a few linear kilometers, we prioritized in 2017 within these four months and based on the resource we have, we will make the tour of Gurkovo. You do not expect us to face the priorities and needs of individual municipalities in the area and of individual Republican roads in the area? Since here and you have to admit the traffic that goes through the tour of Gurkovo, still a second-class road connecting North to southern Bulgaria through the Hainboaz Pass as an extremely important and urgent task facing the Road Infrastructure Agency. I'm not going to take back time on questions and answers. One kilometer and 300 meters and the resource that is needed is not in those millions we comment on with which the rehabilitation of the remaining road sections in Stara Zagora district takes place. You have, however, three ways along the REGIONs in growth, included in your area. As you say, the readable mayors, no matter which political force, have the opportunity, regulatoryly regulated, through an agreement with the Road Infrastructure Agency to carry out the current repair and maintenance of Republican roads within the settlements. So I don't know the right mayor of Galabovo municipality why he didn't take this opportunity. We will recommend him, inform him, give him instructions, as others do, perhaps not so good mayors, but they are much better owners within the land of their municipalities........ either on Republican or municipal roads. The fact is that the shortage of funding in the road sector and the deficit on an annual basis are within three times the Agency's available budget. I think next year, after the introduction of the toll, these questions, rather these topics, will be asked and overexposed in a completely different way. I will not have at all the moral right then to answer that resource, that funds are not available. On the contrary, then we will talk about other priorities in road maintenance and road construction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is again by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the need for a major repair of third-class road III-5504 part of the Republican road network, passing entirely along the territory of the Stara Zagora region, Galabovo municipality. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u148	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! This is again a road from Stara Zagora District, again from Galabovska Municipality, perhaps recommend to the mayor and this time to fix, because the state is clearly not doing its job. The road is the III-5504 third-class, part of the Republican road network and not of the municipal road network, which goes entirely on the territory of Stara Zagora District, Galabovo Municipality, 16 km and 800 m. It affects Iskritsa, Mednikarovo, Obrucishte and in the eastern part of Galabovo, in close proximity to the TPP Maritsa East 1 This time it is in an extremely poor operating condition, mostly with multiple bumps and cracks in separate places and falling into asphalt, and with poor and impaired drainage. In February this year there was a partial patching with cold asphalt mixture of the most dangerous holes from the pavement from the village of Mednikarovo to road III 5504. In May, another 1,300 square feet were mended. m with hot asphalt. Mending of the pavement has been repeatedly carried out, and although this is already technologically impossible, given the distortions that have occurred, it continues to take place and toss money into the wind. A major renovation is needed. This time it is the only connection of the people from the listed villages with the municipal and district centers and there is serious discontent, there is a danger of civil disobedience. Needless to say, the road is extremely important for the communications between the mines and the tets in the complex "Mini Maritsa East" because the labour is carried on these roads. Dear Minister, in this regard provide me with up-to-date information on the condition of this third-class road and answer me the question: when do you plan to carry out the necessary necessary major repairs on this road? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u149	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u150	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, don't alter my words. I'm not asking the municipal authorities to rehabilitate. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Within the settlements there is an opportunity for which the Road Infrastructure Agency is paying the corresponding maintenance amounts. You know the drill. If you don't know it, explain it to you in more detail, and to representatives of the local government. I will send them a commitment, an indicative letter of how to proceed, if they want to enter into such a dispute protocol with the Road Infrastructure Agency, for Republican Roads, I stress only within the settlements. Specifically on this subject. Republican Road III-5504 Iskritsa The Road Infrastructure Agency takes care of the road network in the territory of Stara Zagora district within the approved budget. In 2017, 41 thousand were added under the current repair and maintenance programme. lv. for partial repair of the pavement and for mowing in the most critical areas, and for marking of 11 thousand. lv. Totally so far, I also mentioned in the answer to the previous question, in Stara Zagora District, all activities related to the current repair and maintenance.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. lv. with VAT. The state of the road infrastructure will be improved with the launch of the two projects under Operational Programme "Regions in growth" "Lot 1" "Pat II-57 Stara Zagora "Radnevo" with a total length of 38,919 km " and Lot 19 "Pat III-663 "Chirpan" "Zetyovo" "Dimitrovgrad" "Sungurlare" with a total length of 15,220 km in Stara Zagora district. The funds available to the Road Infrastructure Agency for the maintenance of Republican roads in good operational condition and for the implementation of major repairs and related activities are many times less than the necessary funds and this limits the number of sites that the Agency could include in its investment programme for implementation within a calendar year. The chronic shortage of funds requires prioritization of road sections, reasonable spending of funds and maximum effect in the implementation of our repair program. Of course, in order to solve the problems that you are asking during your parliamentary questions within a few months, within those four years in which you are a Member of the National Assembly, I think they are working. The result is that the main and global objective as a priority in the road sector is already visible the final rights from a procedural point of view, namely the introduction of the tol system. No matter how many times I have responded from this tribune, and not only from it, but this is the highest tribune in the country, it will not be a panacea of all problems in the road sector, but also through the means that will be generated by the mixed toll system for heavy goods and electronic cars, the necessary resource will be generated that will meet the needs in almost 100% dimension of the road sector and as repairs, maintenance, and as construction of new road sections. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] So, calmly after the introduction of the Tol system in 2018, these road sections, and dozens of others, will be included in the investment programme of the Road Infrastructure Agency, and then we will not wait for neither European nor loan funding, nor targeted funding from the Republican budget through a decree of the Council of Ministers. Yes, here's the specific answer: after the introduction of the tol system, and I think I'm running out of answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u152	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, again with these toll fees, it is true that you expect a billion leva revenue from them, but seeing that for all the roads you explain their repairs with them, it is starting to make fun of me, because hardly for the repairs of these third-class roads, which have provided you with all the MPs since the beginning of the mandate, will have the executive capacity to perform them in one, even for two years. However, do not forget the promises, because I assume that from next year, by introducing tolls, we will have to keep the promises. I see that the government is preparing to manage us for four years.. a long period, so there will be time and see if you will have the will to repair these roads after introducing tolls and proceeds from them. By the way, since the beginning of the term of office I have asked you questions in parliamentary control five times for the Stara Zagora region, although I have prepared questions for at least 10 more of the municipality of Gurkovo, Radnevo, Opan and Nikolaevo, and everywhere else. However, I ask myself: what is the point of asking you these questions about the roads when the answer is still the same and you do not even prioritize them who is ahead and who is further back in your ranking? By the way, you said you were repairing Gurkovo Road now. There is also discontent, because you are repairing it to a precinct, and then you are not repairing it, and I will also ask you this question. You are talking about Stara Zagora For Chirpan, Zetyovo, Dimitrovgrad, too. Do you have any statistics on how many of the questions addressed to you in parliamentary control are for roads and how many meters of the Republican network they represent? And how many kilometers are those that require immediate repair? I want to tell you that the people who came to the reception room and asked me about this time are saying that the renovations of the last time we talk about are being done by two people with a trailer with a trailer, from which they are spilling asphalt and trapping it with shovels. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Madam President. These repairs are so effective, there's no point throwing money at them. You'll allow me one last sentence. Because I promised you every time I asked you a question about repairing roads to tell you a story that Bulgarians talk about. This time the story is: the roads in Bulgaria were not bad, but smart, had the ability to regulate speed, and this nowhere in the world and Europe has not yet been achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u153	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Gokov! You should have come up with an option to generate enough resources from the state in a fair model so that the Republican road network can be maintained in a good manner. Not four years to ask a question. Within these four years, you have managed and slowed down the process of implementing the toll, and you have found no long-term solution. Fairy tales, fairy tales and fairy tales! Within these 40 years since the road was built, it has never been rehabilitated primarily. You don't expect us to rehabilitate all the roads in Stara Zagora in two months, let alone with the available resources. You're not listening to what I'm answering your questions. I just mentioned the prioritization of road infrastructure, especially in Stara Zagora region. I just responded to a priority tour of the town of Gurkovo that it is a priority road section compared to the road you mentioned within the town of Galabovo, from one kilometer and three hundred meters. So I understand the pathos, as your constituents come to your receptions and look at you, but at least listen to what I say. I know you have prepared, learned lines, which is normal, but I'm really trying, you're an intelligent person, realize that by 300 million. lv. on an annual basis, no matter how qualitative and effective it is to spend whatever priorities the state is leading, the roads will not be fixed for another 40 years, for which you are asking me questions, so our main priority within the framework of the launch of this mandate we will introduce it as an instrument, tomorrow you will come to power, and you will have one ready instrument with the necessary means that you will spend on these roads. So little, as they say, realize that neither with a magic wand can improve the wine model. We always said he was vicious. The wine model is not fair, and therefore always in European countries, not only in European countries, even in Eastern European countries, not only in Western Europeans is seen as a transitional model for the transition to objective, adequate, fair charging for passing through Republican roads, namely toll fees. So you can make fun of me for talking about a toll, but after a year, a year and a half... And by the way, regarding the capacity of construction companies, thank you for reminding me, today we had a meeting with the management of the Chamber of Builders on this issue. Since we are already making estimates for resource generation from 2018, 2019 onwards. Do not make it like with other infrastructure investment programmes in our governments not to test respectively fellow builders of deficits and of staff and of equipment, as it is expected in the road sector especially construction from 2019 onwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u155	Thank you, dear Mr. Nankov. Next question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov on Water and Water Dobrich AD. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister! My question about the state of Water Dobrich is from July 19th. In the period from these two months until your answer I understand that the company manager has been replaced. What I want you to answer to this parliamentary control is extremely important and I think that the citizens of Dobrich, those who use the service of VK Dobrich AD, are interested, and it is: what is the financial situation of the company and what measures is the management of the company and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to improve the services provided to the customers of VK Dobrich? I expect you to draw a parallel and compare with previous years, focusing on the company's obligations to the NRA, NSI, the Health Insurance Fund, Swimming Directorate and suppliers, including for electricity from 2014 to today. According to my information, compared to 2014, the average staff members of the company increased. What has required the increase in staff and has this led to a more quality service provided to the users of the water service - Dobrich? I believe that it is necessary to specify in the reply whether the company's obligations for this period of three years are increased and what is the reason, and whether control has been carried out by the owner, in the face of the principle Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u157	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u158	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Yankov, I am committed in writing to providing you with much more detailed information, since not three hours and thirty-three minutes, perhaps three hours and thirty-three minutes will not suffice me to answer half of your questions. Water is a commercial company of 75.4%. It continues to participate in the capital and 24.6 of the Burgas Water. You know from the Ministry, the company is subject to constant observations regarding its production and financial and economic situation. The same is among the most problematic in the sector - the most problematic not among but the most problematic in the sector - the difficulties in its activities are of a year-round nature. We're starting from the distant 1998. After their suspension in the 1980s, the Company relied on government deposits, you know, in the very creation and operation of infrastructure, pumping water, pumps. Following their suspension of state credentials in the early 1990s, debts gradually increased in an objective fact. In the medium term for the last five years, a reduction in the loss rate can be justified, accounting for the Company accounting for a zero operating result only for the financial year 2015. In the analysis of the reasons explaining this condition, several circumstances should be taken into account: water extraction, I mentioned in full, by means of a pumping mechanism with a significant cost of electricity. Secondly, water losses are in the order of 85%. In this respect, the company is a negative record. They are due to the poor condition of the adjoining infrastructure, mostly the plumbing network, which is public state and municipal property. Next, the collection rate of the claims is low in the range of 70% to 86% on average for the sector. Regardless of which management staff, management has taken over the company in the last 15 years, obligations to individuals, residents of the municipality or municipalities in the district, and to legal persons and receivables have been really much more tragic than those in the sector. The company has been in poor management, except for all those circumstances that I mentioned in the last really over 10 years. I can assure you that the management of the Ministry has the necessary initiative to support all the measures taken in the water supply - Dobrich, whose aim is to generate the necessary revenue, own cash flow for the rhythmic servicing of debts to creditors and suppliers and improve the services provided. Part of the measures include: A debt write-off of 11.5 million. lv. in 2015, by increasing the state participation in the capital and a new shareholder was accepted in the case of the Burgas Waters. In 2016, the company's long-term debt to El. Energy to the Energy Financial Group AD through a mission contract of 7,5 million lv. I can say some things.. we have legalized the company's market, not only it buys and at far more expensive prices, but I will also mention this paradox. Also in 2016 was signed a 15-year contract between the Association of Water and Water -Dobrich. It includes maintenance, management and operation of the water systems and facilities, as well as provision of services for the population of the territory with a range of municipalities Dobrich, Balchik, Kavarna, Shabla, General Toshevo, Tervel and Krushari. Developed and presented for approval in KEWRC is the business plan of the water service operator for the new regulatory period. Despite these measures and the planned minimum increase in the prices of the water service, it should be clear that they will not provide the company with full cost coverage and the provision of significant investment funds and the replacement of depreciation infrastructure. The reason for this is the threshold of social tolerability of prices, which each company in the sector should take into account I will continue really, if you will allow me to give some more facts and figures about the staff, I must say how it has been moving over the years, and about some of the actions we have taken with the new contracts of the new management of the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Iankov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u160	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! I expect you to say in detail within what time will you provide the state of Dobrich through me as a finding and development in recent years? You yourself have stated from the stand that the losses of the company itself are extremely high. I expect you to develop in the duplicate if these losses are not compensated by an increase in staff, as my information is that the average staff is increased. Perhaps the weak management of the Company, as you appreciate it for previous periods, will compensate with your decision for new management. Standing behind the change in management of the Company, given that you have also appointed a person from the industry, with experience gained, do you guarantee the citizens who use the service of the water service of Dobrich that in the future the company will stabilize, concrete measures will be taken to reduce losses, including a reduction in the cost of water provided by it? Do you know what the cost of water is? Did you know she's the tallest? Compare it with the price that other citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria pay from other operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u162	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yankov. The problems we have inherited since the 1980s, but with bad management in the last 15 years, we have come to this really tragic state with over 30 million obligations of the Society. The average number of staff in the last ten years compared to 2007 has increased without improving the quality of the service in any way. Fact. It is in line with your reasoning that you have not been my consultant, by the way, in the contracts with the new management that we have laid out, for the first time in the water sector, the achievement of operational objectives, and in a very short period of time. That is, if the management of the company fails to fulfil the commitments undertaken as operational results within a six-month period, other options and other solutions for the management of the company will be sought. I think that's a good step. Speaking specifically to reduce the cost of water, so far all experts who have been involved in the topic During the company I can safely say that there has been a rule of politics, but a little expertise. In the past twenty years, many governments have changed, and I think it is high time for the water and water in the way of good management to begin to heal both its financial and functional state. However, we are also talking about the implementation of a small volume of projects in absolute dimensions and as coverage of the area, which will solve the problems of the water company, the large water cycle of Dobrich. The implementation of a second project with the beneficiary of the project "Dobrich," which we will also focus on energy efficiency. For pumping water, which is what the price of water you mentioned is the most expensive in the country, the residents of Dobrichka district consume the most expensive water, the measures to solve this problem and for us, as a management of the Ministry, go through the approval of energy efficiency, the energy characteristics of the pumping station, of pumping stations. The other global problem of water loss, which I mentioned, all these parameters are laid down in the management contracts for the new management staff. Within one week, it is foreseeable time to provide you with the information. It is never hidden, it is public, and now through you to be enlightened and to the public of Dobrich. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u163	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Elhan Kulkov concerning the state of distress of the landslide of the quarter. 33, sq. 34, bratena village, Satovcha municipality. Here you go, Mr. Kulkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u164	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the House, Dear Minister! There are 19 landslides registered on the territory of Satovcha Municipality, according to the critical infrastructure list prepared by your Ministry. They are all at different stages of activation and especially important, given the pronounced landslide process and the involvement of important infrastructure, including residential buildings, is the landslide in the square. 33rd century braided. The landslide process arose in 2013, mainly affecting people's residential buildings. In 2015 it became active again and on a larger scale and covered an area of about five acres, such as in addition to residential buildings, it also affects a sewer collector, a water network, a business building and the only street that is the road to the school and kindergarten. From the investigations carried out on 10 May 2017, the development process of the landslide, by the Geosaprotective Pernik, was found to be at an effective stage and has the potential to expand its scope. The landslide is included in the priority list of the Minister's Financing List prepared in 2015. On 17 February 2017, the municipality of Satovcha has also renewed its request for funding, but currently no funds have been presented to carry out reinforcement events. Because of the above, my question to you, Mr. Minister, is: is there any funds provided in the budget for 2017 of the head of the Ministry for reinforcement activities of landslide sq. 33, braided, and do you foresee action being taken to finance strengthening activities in relation to this landslide by the end of calendar year 2017, as each delay in time carries a potential risk to the life and health of the population?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u166	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the House, dear Mr. Kulkov! According to the provisions of art. 96, para. 1 of the Law on Structure of the Area (ZUT) geoprotective measures and activities to limit landslides, erosion and abrasive processes and to prevent accidents and damage are carried out by both the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and by the central and territorial authorities of the executive power and by the owners and users of property under the conditions and in order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. In accordance with Ordinance No 1 on geo-protection activities, the financing of geo-protection activities is carried out by owners and users of real estate for the construction of their properties and for their needs of geo-protection facilities and the implementation of geo-protection activities. The municipalities shall provide financial means for the threatened and affected areas and aquators of local importance. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works (MRF) is carrying out geo-protective activities under the Budget Programme "Structural Planning, Public Works, Geodefense, Water Supply and Sewerage" with state budget funds. Within the limits of a budget in 2017 financial means are provided for carrying out a preventive activity related to the recording of landslide processes, monitoring of the most active of them and continuing construction of sites with contracts concluded from previous years if I tell you from which years, you will not be surprised: 2007 "2008." We are still carrying out activities and financing projects from those years. Knowing what the budget estimates of the ministries were in 2016 were 3 million. And 200,000. on these feathers for the entire activity related to geo-protected landslide activities and their prevention and monitoring. This year is a little bit more than 4 million. And 200,000. lv. for 2017 In this year, as well as in the 2018 annual budget forecast, no funding of the site is envisaged for the emergency reinforcement of a landslide in Sq. The plan of the village of Plevena, municipality of Satovcha. The MRB budget does not finance emergency facilities, events and actions from the resource that I mentioned. The initiative of the municipality of Satovca is of paramount importance given the competences and powers conferred on it under the Law on Local Self-government and Local Administration, the Law on Municipal Property and others. The requirements of the Law on the Protection of Disasters, the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers shall apply to emergency situations and emergency reconstructions. It should also be borne in mind that annually under the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, in the case of 2017, art. 50, the municipalities shall be granted a target subsidy for capital expenditure. The estimates for the financing of the capital costs of municipalities approved by a decision of the municipal council are provided by the Ministry of Finance under the conditions and by order determined by the Minister of Finance, you know. With great concern, we take into account the need to take measures to limit landslide processes and permanently stabilise the territory of Satovcha municipality. Other financial sources should be sought, including applying to provide funds for the implementation of the site. 33 of the village of Plevena, municipality of Satovcha "and the most adequate source of financial resources, apart from the municipal budget, could be the budget of the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u167	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Kulkov for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u168	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, I am not pleased with the answer. I guess you're not either. [[Laughs]] And you do not wish that to be the answer, but I hope that we will really look for a way to find a solution to the problem, because from the ones made, as I said, in 2017, May, by the Geo-protectives, Pernik, engineering geology research specialists, in view of the established geological risk, consider it necessary to implement the power-building equipment envisaged by the project decision within the shortest time to avoid the expansion of the scope of the landslide and the emergence of a danger to life and health of the population. And one more thing. Let us not forget that at the moment the landslide has affected the only way to school and kindergarten, and this immediately threatens the lives and health of children who go through there every day. Indeed, they have sought, there have been submitted, there are requests for the Interdepartmental Commission, but there are no means for which I hope once again to your understanding, because you know, indeed, that these are problematic facilities and to assist in the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the results of the appointed verification of the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme for the quality of construction and work of the supervisory companies used for the renovation materials and fire safety of the same. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, at the end of this year you entrusted the Department of National Construction Control to do an inspection of the already renovated buildings in Bulgaria for the quality of construction and for the work of the supervisory companies for what materials are used for the renovation of the buildings and whether the materials used by them for insulation are fireproof. I will not miss to insert on this sick subject for our society and with this question that in the case of so-called free renovations there is no clarity about the costs already incurred by the contractors that the control systems are not effective enough that three companies have taken the most money from this free renovation that free renovation comes out over 17 thousand. lv. to an apartment and so on. And against the background of these data and figures that sound like an organized midday robbery, something that seems like our society has already swallowed it, remains to hang in the air the question: when it is so expensive this sanitization, at least quality to do. Are the materials used quality? Do they meet the requirements for fire safety? Mr. Minister, in the media, shortly before you left with the inspection, there were reports, comments and complaints that although the regulatory requirements for high-rise buildings need to be applied insulation material with a low reaction to fire class of the class of the class, these are incombustible materials such as mineral or glass wool, materials such as class B and even class C are used, which are, of course, cheaper and are therefore used. So I ask you the following questions: what is the reason that caused these checks? How many buildings have been checked and on what principle have they been selected for inspection? Is the use of insulation materials that do not meet the standards of fire safety and if the inspection has established that there are such buildings, how will you proceed from now on with the companies that have done this thing and with the conditions for public procurement? And the most important question: Are there sanitized buildings with flammable insulation in Bulgaria? Who are the companies that have performed the sanitization with such fireproof insulation, and how will they be responsible for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u171	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer. You're Mr. Gokov's favorite minister today!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u172	Bad love! [[Radio.]] Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, it has been a long time since you asked a question that is not about roads, but this is an important and delicate topic. In connection with the implementation of the National Energy Efficiency Programme in multi-family residential buildings in the Housing Policy Directorate, 37 signals and complaints have been received at the moment. Some of them were verified within the competence of the Directorate and an answer was given. For the capacity of the directorate and monitoring I will answer in the back. We've created a whole new monitoring and control department. The verification of the other part of them, together with the verification of 56 buildings of the Programme, in the process of realization of the construction works, was entrusted to the DNC under the authority of the Directorate under the Law on Construction of the Area. Of the total 72 constructions checked by the DNC on the territory of the country, 64 of them were not found to be infringements under the Law on Structure of the territory and its regulations on its application. On six constructions, five of which are third and one is fourth category, deviations have been found in the construction and assembly works. For the third category constructions, the DNCC authorities have taken action in the formation of administrative and criminal proceedings against the guilty parties involved in the construction process. The alleged violations of the fourth category of construction, from the head of the RDNC to the person exercising construction supervision, have been invited to draw up an act under the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments and have been directed to the construction supervision to remedy the alleged infringements within the relevant period. A DNC check does not include a fire response class check, I stress... As regards your inquiry, the following particulars should be made in the part about the flammable heat insulation. In accordance with the requirements of the Ordinance of 29 October 2009 on construction and technical rules and standards for fire safety in the facades of buildings above 28 m high are permitted the application of thermal insulation product with a minimum fire response class "B" or "C": class "B" for products with a very limited contribution to uncontrolled combustion; class "C" is permitted for products with a limited contribution to uncontrolled combustion. When investing in a construction of a thermal insulation product, it should be accompanied by a declaration of performance demonstrating the fire response class. From June 2016, correspondence shall be carried out and working meetings shall be held with regard to the possibility of non-compliance between the fire response class declared by the manufacturers of these insulation products and the actual heat insulation product. After the meeting on the initiative of members of the Bulgarian Association for Insulation in Construction were conducted tests in the Slovak laboratory on samples of the thermal insulation product of expanded polystyrene, the so-called ERS produced by Romanian producers S. C. ADEPLAST, Romania and S. C. EPS THERMOPOR, Romania, which are invested in the renovation of buildings under the Programme. About the results of the tests of the samples, the Bulgarian Association for Isolations in Construction informed MRRB in November 2016 that the analyses for both products show that the class of reaction by fire is a class "E" and not the declared class "B." Experts from the MRF Directorate of Research and from the General Directorate of Fire Safety and Population Protection have jointly reviewed the submitted test reports and have found that the tests carried out prove that a fire response class has been achieved by both products, but do not certify that a product conformity check has been carried out with the declared class B. The established MPRB informed the Bulgarian Association for Construction Isolations and all addressees included by the Association in the correspondence. State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision also conducted tests in a notified laboratory in Italy on samples of two products of the Romanian producers, which the Ministry informed of. The samples were taken from two buildings that are being renovated under the Programme. The test results established shall meet the requirements for the fire response class B and C for the production batch of the first product and for the other product respectively. As a result of what has been said so far, in order to clarify the distribution and use of these thermal insulation products at sites, in June 2017, the Ministry requested from the municipalities all buildings implemented under the Programme with a height of more than 28 m, information on the thermal insulation product used when renovating the buildings, its trademark and fire response class. 109 buildings were inspected in the process of the MRI and 40 with completed renovation activities. According to the reports provided by the municipal administrations on 28 June 2017, buildings with a height of more than 28 m of the described fire response classes are shown to comply with the existing fire safety standards at the time of approval of the investment projects by the municipal administrations with attached certificates of origin and declarations of conformity of the product by the producer company. However, despite the above, after an interdepartmental working meeting on the issue, it was decided to make new tests at the expense of the Ministry's budget for establishing the fire response class of three samples of thermal insulation material prepared for incorporation in the construction process. In cooperation with DAMTHN experts, samples were taken from these three sites, which include the above-mentioned products of the Romanian manufacturer S. C. ADEPLAST S. A. sent to the Center for Testing and European Certification in the city of Stara Zagora. The centre shall perform the tests and provide the results in a test report and a fire response classification report within 20 working days, including the conditioning of samples in a controlled environment for 14 calendar days. In two weeks, I'll have complete information on these samples. Thank you for your attention. I've made a lot of time, and I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u173	Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u174	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Thanks for the comprehensive answer. Do not find my question about any nagging, but as a signal to you to show full seriousness, because the National Energy Efficiency Programme is undoubtedly useful. As far as I know, by 21 July or by the end of July there are resources for 2022 buildings, such is information in the media, with 527 being put into operation and 586 continuing the construction works. There will be other contracts for 2022. I listened carefully and thought about 150 buildings you checked. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that perhaps you should, as you said, that municipalities are required to have a certificate to cover 100% of all buildings, because this is not a joke job. The program is good, defects are lack of control and ineligible costs. I won't comment on the expenses. Do not turn out that lack of technical control has led to other problems as well. I am not saying that at the moment there is no control, but not to prove that there was no such control and this would lead to other problems, for example, that these sanitized blocks are a fire hazard, and not to allow God to become accidents with a consequence of fire, such as in London, such as in the tobacco warehouses in Plovdiv or in the Kresna Gorge, where a common worker or the company's cleaning lady did not do anything when they installed the block and the company was in the meantime bankrupt and not to have a probation worker. You seem like an intelligent and responsible person. I therefore ask you to tighten the controls and be uncompromising as regards the quality of the materials invested and the quality of the performance, because performers at these prices are obliged to give this quality to the materials and to the work done. The subject is huge and will not fit within the framework of parliamentary control and of a parliamentary issue. Please, once you are fully finished with the results of the inspection, make it public, because people are excited about this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u175	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u176	Dear Madam President, gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Gokov! The subject is extremely serious. We weren't hiding from information. I mentioned, in two weeks' time, when the lab tests, which require the necessary time, will provide results. I mentioned in the answer to the question, this is about declared circumstances and facts from the three producers, which do not correspond to the truth, if this proves the results. Neither the builder, the municipality, nor anyone involved in the investment process can be insured, even if the owner sanitizes the building himself, by commercial fraud. Do not let God prove that in this case we have available commercial fraud if false facts and circumstances are declared in the declaration of conformity in the certificate of origin of the product. Maybe the answer to your question got the two checks mixed up. The verified buildings are a fixed percentage of the DNCC verification. All the buildings with complaints were with us plus a sample principle of 10% of the rest, which are at the construction stage or put into operation. But they've all been checked on the subject that you asked the question about the input materials. We've requested information from the mayors, the construction companies to do the lab tests and find out what we're going to do next after we get the results of the inspection. The subject is very sensitive. You realize it yourself, not only as a program, but also as a mood in society. Before taking the necessary action, I think we should not bring in unnecessary fears and speculate on the subject, even indirectly. It is dangerous. I don't want to give advice, but let an independent laboratory, third in a row, the one in Stara Zagora, give the results, present the information and take the necessary action. As for the Programme, its future, control, I had a commitment to provide two types of information. At the moment, we have provided a third for the vision, for a future continuation. I suppose there will be new debates on the subject at political and expert level. I am pleased that you find that the Programme is useful, valuable and must continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u177	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Given that the subject is very serious and interesting, so I let you talk more. There are three more questions. I say we finish them off and finish the meeting. There is a question from the MP Ivan Ivanov about the water crisis in the town of Pliska. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u178	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! As you know, Pliska is the first Bulgarian capital. For several years, the government has invested millions of levs to rebuild the old capital city and especially the Basilica. Unfortunately, contrary to the objective pursued by the investment, namely the attraction of a larger tourist flow and the popularization of this Bulgarian capital, in July and August as a result of the constant accidents of the water supply town of Pliska was almost constantly damaged water supply, which with some interruption continues to this day. This has negatively affected households and numerous tourist sites in the region. Mr. Minister, you know that Kaspichan, part of which is Pliska, has not invested funds in the water sector for years. For one reason or another, the municipality has not been able to benefit from programmes as a beneficiary to improve the water supply in the region. On this subject, we could discuss another parliamentary control. Regarding what happened in Pliska, I ask you to answer: Have measures been taken by the Water and Water Department of Shumen to overcome the crisis and its failure to repeat it more? Because if this happens again in the next tourist season, it will have an extremely negative impact. Are the funds provided for in the company's investment programme for the city of Pliska? I'm talking about the one that was approved very soon and went through the KEWRC. You know better than me what's in its contents. However, let the viewers who monitor parliamentary control hear it as well as colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the water supply of the town of Pliska is carried out by deep-drilling Pliska. Water from the water supply through almost four thousand meters of water supply.. 3910 meters of water supply with a diameter of 150 millimeters is brought to a pressure water tank 160 cubic meters. In 2008, there was a replacement section of 300 meters with a tube size of 160 millimeters. During the last three years of the water supply, five accidents occurred, one of which occurred in 2016. In the period July "August 2017" six accidents occurred and five of them occurred on 24 and 25 August 2017. From the Water and Water Department Shumen, Ltd immediately took measures and the accidents were removed in due time. The water supply was interrupted only on the day of the occurrence of the accident at the time of their removal for not more than 12 hours in view of the tourist season. In August this year there is a good trend of growth in tourism compared to 2015 and 2016. This was the purpose of the management of the water and the local company, the local unit in Kaspichan. The removal of accidents is difficult due to problems with the admission of the emergency group to the site of the accident by an agricultural land tenant through which the accident affected area passes. A fact which has been displayed in the protocol from August 27th to September 1st this year has been replaced by 380m from the water supply pipe with RE160mm pipes including a 30m section with a high frequency of accidents. No interruption of water supply has been required for the duration of the repair activities. No water supply regime has been imposed for the town of Pliska for the period July 2017 as at present. In the investment programme to the developed business plan you asked about the period 2017 - 2021, of the Water and Canal Shumen, Bulgaria. Noise is provided for funds of 790 thousand. lv. for the entire five-year period, of which 80 thousand. lv. for 2017, for the most urgent measures to improve the efficiency of existing water supply networks and facilities to achieve the quality indicators of the water supply services provided. The replacement of sections of a total of 700 m in the lowest part of the water supply, subjected to the highest pressures and carrying out the necessary prevention of the taps along the water supply route, will provide, albeit not in full, reliable operation of the seamless water supply facility for the town of Pliska. Something my colleagues didn't know and didn't write me back in the answer. Several meetings with the mayor of Kaspichan, by the way, within the last three weeks, one of them is with the Prime Minister. We have had a problem, rather, in the municipality of Kaspichan, especially for Pliska and other settlements, with a project that has been rejected for rural areas because of really ineligible activities, not to go into details and a number of other reasons. The commitment we have now, especially for Pliska, is from the Ministry's budget to finance the development of technical, work projects of 250 thousand. BGN, which Kaspichan municipality will assign within the next month, to the maximum extent of a month, in order to be able to provide in 2018 a necessary resource for partial replacement of the internal plumbing network not only the leading plumbing in Pliska to solve precisely the problems that you mentioned. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The fact is that the budget is limited. I conclude with the answer to the question, but actions are currently being taken not only by the Water and Water, rather even by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u181	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u182	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! You described what happened in the town of Pliska this summer. In my opinion, the information submitted to you by the water operator does not largely correspond to the truth. I personally attended civil disobedience, where the entire population of Pliska had gathered. The facts brought out by the victims were quite different from what was taken out of the stands. The biggest curiosity was that representatives of the water company, headed with the director of this company, were going to raise funds from the businessmen, from the residents of Pliska to restore this plumbing. It literally came to lynching, he was barely rescued from lynching the gentleman because he couldn't give a clear answer who would pay for the replacement of this plumbing. Indeed, I hope that the information you have given us that these 400 meters have been renewed because, by accounts, I rudely say...................the demands they removed each day cost much more than the pipe itself, which had to be restored. To come back again, it was unacceptable to go, to go from house to house and to look for money from people to pay for this repair, for a service that was contracted to them by the water company. In my opinion, such actions by the management of this company are highly unacceptable. I am counting on you to replace the highway network, which is often an emergency but also the urban network, so that people can be calm both for households and for tourist sites to be implemented. I will ask that this be done under very serious supervision by your office so that such outrage is not allowed, and tomorrow we will hear from people again that they want money for one thing, for another that enters the sphere of comic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, not by accident two weeks ago, when I was aware of the problem, I sent the director of the VAC Directorate in Pliska, by the way, the director of the Department of Water and Water in my office. Once again, I will refer to your information. The commitments that we have made will be implemented not only for design, as the overall replacement of the water supply infrastructure, rather the water supply water supply water supply, as it is a little far-fetched to talk in Pliska, the water and water supply network, according to the initial data, is over 10 million. lv. The investment budget of the Ministry is so annual, i.e. 265 municipalities. Small problems solve the Ministry, we have to direct them within a budget year for the Pliska. In a phase of about a million we can predict on the basis of the needs that the municipality has, however, we are talking about Pliska in the course of the budget year. Let us first do the design, let the municipality also assign the activities after a public order, we will provide the resource for which we have committed. Here a clamp as a whole will become clear, perhaps within 30 seconds it will be difficult to make clear, but to use the high tribune.. no reason to comment on the toll not with pathos, but with such hope, as in the road sector we will create a sustainable mechanism generated by a sustainable resource for adequate and quality maintenance of this infrastructure. Let us not rely on contributions from budget programmes, through the PMS from the surplus of the budget, through loan instruments, European funding and so on. In the water sector, however, we are far from that logic. Currently an analysis is being developed, funded under the Operational Programme of the Environment, the long-term vision for financing and sustainability of the sector, as the palliative measures with funds from the budget of the Ministry, of the PUDOS in the long term must be discontinued, as the rehabilitation of infrastructure of more than 40-50-60 years, especially in small settlements, after five to ten years will be a huge problem for society. Just because this infrastructure is underground, it is not seen every day by the people, does not mean that it should be less cared for than for example by the road. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u185	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MP Kristina Sidorova about the stage of implementation of projects to deal with the waterlessness in the municipality of Sevlievo. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u186	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister Nankov, the problems with the water supply of Sevlievo municipality are well known to you, dating from a very long period. For years, summers for sebuleans have been a disaster. This summer is no exception. For three weeks Sevlievo has been on the regime, there are villages that have no water for 16 days, there are villages that have no water for 10 days, five villages are on the regime and there is no telling when they will have water. There are 1,700 people living there. Municipality of Sevlievo, town of Sevlievo, 30 000 people, water regime every day. Water's three hours a night. I think the facts tell us how difficult the situation is in this community. There are two ways to solve the problem. One is the construction of the Mokra Byala dam, and you know it well because last year the signatures of more than 10 thousand residents of Sevlievo municipality were imported into your office. The other way is by reconstructing the water supply from Apriltsi to the treatment plant in the village. That's where 400,000 were allocated. BGN, 600 meters from 22 km of plumbing are reconstructed. The profit from this reconstruction is additional liters per second to the water that comes to the water supply of the municipality. Absolutely not the answer to that question! In this regard, I ask you: at what stage is the construction of the dam "Mokra Byala" and the project, which provides for a complete reconstruction of the water supply from Apriltsi to the treatment plant in the village of goods? Is funding planned for the completion of the dam, because despite the promises at the beginning of the year and this summer, as I told you just now, Sevlievtsi are without water. For your information, the citizens of Sevlievo are planning a protest on Sunday because the situation there is really desperate. I'm waiting for your answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u187	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, Mokra Byala Reservoir, which you mentioned, is a large-scale hydrotechnical facility that requires significant investment and an extended period of investigation, design and implementation of construction activities. In this sense, it should be considered in the context of long-term planning, following a detailed justification on the necessity and effectiveness of its construction. The design of Mokra Byala Dam in the land of the village of Kato, Sevlievo Municipality, started more than 45 years ago and was carried out under other than the current basic data and regulations, which are obsolete and currently cannot be used. The construction of the dam started in 1989, but due to the lack of funding was terminated in 1996 and only about 2% of the total construction activities were carried out. The dam is designed to satisfy the needs of drinking water in 74 settlements with a population of about 100,000 inhabitants on the territory of the districts of Gabrovo, Lovech and Veliko Tarnovo. Currently, the municipality of Veliko Tarnovo receives drinking water mainly from the dam For the identification of investment needs for the implementation of Bulgarian legislation and European directives in the field of water supply and sewerage at regional level, in 2014 was approved a regional master plan for the separate territory served by the Bulgarian Water and Canal. There have been significant losses of drinking water generated in the water supply lines and in the internal water supply network of the settlements, which exceed 62% of the total amount of water submitted. It also identified a clear trend towards population reduction as well as the water used for industry's needs. In these circumstances, the reduction in water losses through a phased rehabilitation of existing plumbing systems is defined as a major priority for ensuring normal water supply to consumers in the short term, starting with those water lines that generate the largest loss of water, which will serve the largest number of investment users that will lead to the greatest effect. Only after ensuring the efficiency of the water supply networks and preventing such large water losses can an analysis be carried out of the necessity and effect of water storage in the dam. The way to solve the water supply problems of Sevlievo municipality in the short term is precisely to rehabilitate existing plumbing systems. It is it that will produce visible results within a short period of time, while the construction of a dam in the case of outdated water supply networks, the water from the dam will leak out on these outdated plumbing networks and into the city that brings water only increase the waste of water without having a great effect on improving the normal water supply to consumers. In this direction, for taking activities to improve the water supply of the municipality of Sevlievo in the short term, you mentioned the funds that have been allocated to the rehabilitation of the water pipeline since April, I am familiar with the whole project, with the changes it has in investment terms on the territory of the municipality of Apriltsi, with the parcel plan, alienation and so on, but this is another topic. The funds are extremely insufficient for the limited budget of the Ministry anyway. That is why the meetings last year in Sevlievo municipality, in order to proceed to consolidation, a decision was taken, for which we thank the public and the Municipal Council in Sevlievo, for consolidation, so that in early 2018, we could assign a feasibility study with the global goal of generating the European resource for the sustainable global solution of the problems with the VK in Sevlievo's system. What can be done so far to the president of large investments with European funds under the Operational Programme "Environment"? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Taking into account the long period needed for the construction of a new dam, as I mentioned, the Mokra Byala is not excluded as an opportunity, of course, it is useful to do a regional survey, such as one for the water supply of the town of Sevlievo. This is what we have mentioned at these meetings, we have similar engineering studies of Sevlievo and some of the villages around it from the dam of the Dam of Smirnenski, where there will be a rehabilitation of the wall, which will be completed within the calendar year 2017 and with the construction of a water pipeline of the water from the dam of Smirnenski with the investment that we are doing to improve the wall and its characteristics, we plan to increase the volume of the dam by more than 10 million. Cube. meters. In other words, necessary quantities that could be solved, if not by 100, by 90% of the problem of the water supply of the municipality of Sevlievo and the staged rehabilitation of the Apriltsi water pipeline, of course, of the internal water network with municipal funds and with the state such updating of the big European project for which carte blanche gave municipal councilors with the decision of last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u189	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mrs. Sidorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u190	Colleagues, Minister Nankov, as we wait for the dam to be legalized, repaired, this is what we listen to every year at the beginning of the year, at the end again. Part of the Gabrovo villages are also to the water supply from the water supply from the water water supply. They're also wearing watermelons right now. While we wait for this, the residents of Sevlievo will stand without water, will stand with water three hours a day, and do you think these are solutions that can work in recent times? I am talking about the next summer that Sevlievo's people will not be subjected to this genocide that they are currently undergoing. Because it's not from yesterday, it's not from the last day, it's a problem that exists for years and for which every year some money is promised for projects to be rehabilitated 200 - 300 meters, to fix several pipes in the city center and next year we have a regime again. Don't you think it should be more serious and more responsible to address the problem of an entire municipality and let's not forget that this is one of the best economic cities in Bulgaria and there is a very well-developed industry that also needs water?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u191	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Sidorova, in addition to being attached to the area, I think that the efforts made in the past and this year have not been made for more than 30 years for Sevlievo municipality. And the problem isn't today or yesterday. Don't be surprised! The problem, if it had started to be solved, albeit gradually within these 25 - 30 years, would not have commented at all on the topic of drinking water of Sevlievo municipality. The problem hasn't been solved for 30 years, we'll solve it in two hours?! Come on, politics isn't always useful. For "Smirnenski" only to say two words: ten choices in Gabrovo were made with the promise of both parliamentary and local, and others perhaps that the wall was rehabilitated. She's in rehab right now. The funds we provided last year, within this calendar year 2017, are being completed and the dam "Smirnenski" is being completed, except with safe exploitation is characterized by really increased volumes, which with a small investment could bring them to the villages along the line and on the road Sevlievo Gabrovo, not to list them, Yavoritsa and so on, to power the municipality of Sevlievo. The fact that we have to predict, we will predict, I make a commitment to the next budget year even bigger than the Ministry's budget, which I mentioned just now what it is if you listened to my answer There are other sources, however. The fact is, however, that you are proving the correctness of the decision of the municipal councillors for the consolidation of the municipality of Sevlievo, the municipality of Sevlievo and the transition into the separate territory, because if the municipality of Sevlievo with its own financial resources and the investment program of the municipality of Bjala. I mentioned not our requirements, I have always stated it a request for funding under the European Investment Funds for this programming period was consolidation. Finally, after a year of political activity in the municipal council and in the local community, the right decision was made last year, the earlier it was taken, the more progress we were made in the process of preparing the pre-investment survey and realising the big investment project. With the replacement of all plumbing systems in the city and the complete replacement of Apriltsi plumbing through Sevlievo goods. So the lost time for a year and a half, set it to your co-partys at local level. Although my esteemed former mayor and MP Mr. Stoykov was very well aware of the topic and the thesis that we are currently developing from the stands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u193	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the last question to Minister Nankov, he is from the MP Stefan Burgeev regarding management of the municipal road PVN1080. Road II-13 village Dolni Lukovit, road III-137, section road II-13 village Dolni Lukovit. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u194	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! I have this question: at my meeting in the municipality of Iskar several times I was asked the question of the municipal road PVN1080. The problem is of a multiannual limitation and is expressed in the following: in 2006 the ownership of that section was transferred from the municipality of Iskar to the municipality of Knezha with the motive and understanding that it geographically falls within the territory of the municipality of Knezha. The problem is that the functional road does not serve any of the settlements in Kneja municipality. He serves only the village of Dolni Lukovit, near the municipality of Iskar. Moreover, it is the only link of the village of Dolni Lukovit with the municipal and district centers and possibly its non-support would mean the village to remain cut off. This clearly leads to the situation in which the owner of Kneja is not interested, which, given the financial situation of the municipalities, in practice means not putting sufficient care into the situation of the same road. At the same time, the interested municipality of Iskar cannot allow the break-up of the village of Dolni Lukovit. It is she who is forced to continue to maintain this road section. In such a situation, there is nothing positive and rational for either of the countries, both for the two municipalities and even less for the residents of the village of Dolni Lukovit. On the other hand, leaving the solution to the problem of time, despite the steps taken over the years by the municipality of Iskar and the commitments undertaken by the Ministry so far do not give any effect. Dear Minister, I am opening a clamp, in this case it is about a matter which is on the principle of paragraph 22... does not require any financial, European or state resources. My question is this: what is the solution of the Ministry of Problem? Are there any provisions and what measures will be taken in this case? Will the necessary transport connection be ensured to the residents of the village of Dolni Lukovit? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Burgeev! In the last sentence, when asking the question, I changed my concept to read the answer that my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency had prepared for me, because it was about financing road sections, responsibilities of the municipal administrations, I was about to pass here as just before my colleague Gyokov the municipal road to be financed by the state and vice versa. I figured out what the problem was from the last sentence. The problem is really not simply in § 22 but the problem is about the management, the property of a municipal road. To tell you how the problem could be solved, since the State.. not only the State, the public authority, no matter who, could hardly enter the possession, but could exercise rights on foreign property.................................................................................................................................................................. For this there is a procedure under the Roads Act, it is standard, easy. I'll have a commitment to send it, so we should have a meeting at the Agency with the two municipalities. I understand that one is quite interested in the case, the other is not so much, but I think that settling the status of the road, rather ownership, respectively and maintenance, with our mediation role could be resolved as there is a procedure. Again, it must go through a decision of the principle of municipal property, namely the municipal councils. From there we start by declaring a change of ownership, numbering, and thus changing the status of the road from municipal to republican, but there we end with a decision of the Council of Ministers and validating with an act. I will write down in detail what the procedure is, rather provide the signed procedure and propose for the practical solution of the matter, and does not contain as much a political dimension as a practical problem. We will assist in its resolution in the Road Infrastructure Agency. The last act, by the way, is precisely of an interdepartmental commission with the role of the Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency to promote the new list and the new owner in the case of the road. A decision of the two municipal councils of the two interested parties must be passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u198	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, thank you very much for understanding the problem and what needs to happen in order to solve this problem. I am familiar with regional soil with the issue, and I think there will be no problem with both municipal councils, as the municipality concerned can maintain the road, and Knezha municipality in this case has the right and in its... she is not interested. Thank you. I consider this to be a commitment which, through a detailed prescription, the process path in which it can happen, I will bring it down to... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-19.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. A hole? You won't use it, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. That concludes the issues in today's parliamentary control. Tomorrow, Wednesday, regular plenary session at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
