ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Messages. Decision No 47-91 of 1 June 2017 of the Central Election Commission was adopted in the National Assembly. The decision announced the results of the vote in the National referendum on 6 November 2016, stating that the hypothesis of art. 23, para. 3 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the decision was sent to the Committee on Legal Affairs. It was sent to the MPs of their service e-mail, published in the register under art. 10, para. 7 of the Law on the direct participation of citizens in government and local self-government and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about the indexes of consumer prices for May 2017: Annex No 1. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am making a procedural proposal for today's sitting to begin with a continuation of the debate on the Draft Supplement to the Social Security Code submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Yesterday, at the end of the plenary day, there were violent debates on this bill. There are many willing to speak on this bill. I therefore propose that you put to the vote the first item of today's agenda to be a continuation of the bill supplementing the Code of Social Security submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs and a second item to be a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We vote on the proposal. They voted 199 MPs: for 198, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. And I will propose that tomorrow's parliamentary control be starting at 9:00. Please vote. Vote 196 MPs: in 192, against 2, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are continuing to debate on FIRST VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE SOCIAL DISCLOSURE CODE. Speeches have made the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Georgi Gokov. Georgi Gokov's statement has unfinished procedure. There's a possibility of a third line. Is there a third line? I won't. Mr. Gyokov, you have the opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear MPs, in connection with the lines that were addressed to me yesterday, I will address Mr. Angelov. Mr. Angelov, you made a line to me as if you didn't hear my speech. Your line didn't say a word about our proposal. Aren't you saying you're denying it, where we're wrong, are you saying we shouldn't do that kind of recalculation? If so, say right now that you reject BSP's proposal that you will not recalculate, even though you promised it during the elections. You can rely on people's short memory, but I'll remind you of that. I quote the election program from two or three months ago of the United Patriarchs...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What changed, Mr. Angelov, in two and a half months? Instead of sitting quietly and guiltyly, you are furiously jumping against our proposal. [[Strong noise in OP, replica of the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] Instead of going out and honestly saying that you don't support him, even though it matches your election promises...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u5	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u6	...but now that you are in power, you can see resistance from your coalition partner and not 300 leva. A pension will happen, and you will not recalculate the rest of the pensions! As I told you, GERB partners change, but temper and politics do not change them. [[Loud noise in O.R.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u7	The line is for Mr. Angelov, not GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u8	And like the little children you didn't support us last year in the proposal for 300 BGN "If your memory is short, I will tell you that we supported you as a group, but you didn't want to pass your proposal because only eight people voted for your proposal in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u9	Please don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u10	To Mr. Gurnevsky. I find no need to answer him because he basically didn't replicate me for anything, but he told me what he didn't like about the proposal, what we did wrong, but he didn't say a poem again, which is probably good for the debate and the expertise of the debate. Mr. Gurnevski, when there is no argument in discussing serious matters concerning the fate of two million, two and a half million people, resorts to poetry from questionable sources and, worse than that, resorts to political attacks and what the pension system was ten years ago. Well, it was good, people got their pensions, they lived predictablely and peacefully. [[Laughter]] How long are you going back to the past, Mr. Gurnevsky? This will not make the pensioner richer, nor you greater in the eyes of a minimal group of anti-communists. So that's my answer to your lines. Think about what your priorities have been, gentlemen of the United Patriarchs, and is it not worth supporting our proposal?!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u11	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, after him, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u12	With a few sentences to tell my colleagues on the left the following thing. Indeed, we promised our voters 300 leva. pension, only those 300 leva. a pension would surely have happened if we were not 27, but 107 for example. And you know very well that we have a coalition agreement and we are currently voting on the coalition agreement for pensions to become BGN 200. That's what we've done with 27 people. I'll tell you again if you had won the election! But Borisov won them. What do we do now? That's what the people said, that's what they didn't say. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] And when you keep saying that we betrayed this guy and betrayed that guy and all the stories that we lied to our constituents, you've been telling your constituents for 27 years that you're a socialist party! [[Private applause from GERB.]] According to Marxist thesis, the Socialist Party protects the people of labor. All socialist parties in Europe do not do this. They pretend to be socialist, that's what they're called, and they're social liberals, and the Marxist thesis of social liberals is a big capital agreement. And I don't want you to talk about betrayal, I don't want to offend any of you, but the United Patriarchs didn't betray anyone! Who betrayed Prime Minister Jean Videnov? Who betrayed their own leader? Who Satanized him? Why is it still quoted as the blackest devil in the Bulgarian political space the honorable socialist? Since then you are not a socialist party, you are social liberals. And here, from the stands, to this same sentence, from your ranks Yanaki Stoilov said to me: "I agree that we are social liberals. So, change your logo and don't deal with the United Patriarchs. [[Replys: "Bravo! "]] That's what we've done, that's what we can do, that's what we've done! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u13	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Come in, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm sorry the debate is going in this direction, really, but because professors tend to put the discussion in other directions... The Marxist qualification for a socialist party is not accurate, Prof. Stanilov. Since the mid-20th century Bad-Godesberg Programme has changed the definition and I urge you to pay attention to it. Secondly, the Bulgarian Socialist Party is not socially liberal, as it is clearly stated in the party's programme that social democratic and socialist principles are at the heart of its development. Social liberalism is characteristic of Britain, the Netherlands and the Scandinavian Peninsula. There are social liberal parties there. Because I feel that you are tempted by the subject, we can have a conversation that you have with Professor. Stoylov. He's a lawyer, he's not an ideology expert, and he may have fooled you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov, for the back. Although off the subject, you can see that it is quite within the good tone.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u16	It's really on the subject. What Mr. Zablyanov said about European parties is true, but it is only a book, in theory. It's in theory for you, too. The greatest testimony to your social liberalism is the black spot you put on your forehead with the adoption of the Flat Tax Act. This flat tax that you introduced is a purely social liberal measure and fills the pockets of origarchy, not ordinary people. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u17	Thank you, dear Professor. Stanilov. Dr. Ademov, come in for a statement. I'm sure you'll get us back on the subject. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am going out on this stand with some concern, I would say, a bitterness of what happened yesterday at the end of the plenary session. It is as if today the language of hatred and opposition continues to gain momentum from this parliamentary tribune. Bulgarian pensioners, our mothers and fathers do not need this fierce opposition to the topic of "pensions" in the Bulgarian Parliament. Bulgarian pensioners need a united effort to solve their numerous problems. Ladies and gentlemen, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have always welcomed the proposals for seeking opportunities to increase pension income. We do this because pension incomes for a large part of the Bulgarian pensioners are the only incomes. That is why the proposal made by colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria is the best proposal, whether there are other options is the work of the Bulgarian Parliament to decide on these projects. That is why we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I repeat, welcome every idea for searching for opportunities to increase the amount of pensions in Bulgaria. Colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria are now offering the benefit of pensions granted by the end of 2012, with the insurance income for 2013. Can this happen, at what price can it happen or cannot happen? In the previous parliament, colleagues from the Patriotic Front on 30 November 2016 defended exactly the same thesis or slightly different. I will now tell you what their proposal was, because the National Assembly also has a memory that is registered in the stenographic protocols. Honourable Members, you then proposed two options for an increase in pensions in the State Social Security Budget Project. One option suggested an increase in the minimum amount of the pension for internship and the age of 300 BGN. The second option suggested an increase in the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age from 1 April with 200 BGN. This proposal was accompanied by a recalculation of pensions, notice, of all pensions, unlike what BSP colleagues offer with the insurance income for 2013 and this to happen from 1 July 2017. At that time, statements were made from this tribune, which I will now quote: "It is not possible for two people sitting against each other in the same office, or working on the same machines in the same production, just because they have retired from a year apart, to have, for example, a 10 or 15 per cent difference in incomes. " I don't think anyone can argue with that. What makes you question this proposal now, ladies and gentlemen of the Patriotic Front? If anyone recognizes these words, there is now an opportunity from this tribune to defend the reverse thesis by replicating. Since this tribune has said some false things, I would like to refer to the shorthand of 30 November 2016. About the proposal 200 BGN. the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age from 1 April, accompanied by a proposal for the reclaim of pensions, voted for 69 against 13, abstentioned 61. Their then parliamentary group voted 13 people in 21 parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u19	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u20	You can check it out. Here's the minutes of the meeting. [[Replys from the "United Patriarchs", applause from the DPS and the BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the revoting vote, 14 people voted for the revoting vote, and only 5 votes do not pass. Colleagues, correct yourselves! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Next, the main argument. In this Chamber, emotional arguments were given that opposed one to the other, but an in-depth expert assessment of the proposal was not made by any, I can confirm. And now listen, ladies and gentlemen, what is going on in the proposal of colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria. The main argument challenging this proposal is in the formula for calculating the amount of the pension. It is claimed that pensioners, when they acquire the right to a pension for internship and age, are not obliged to pay insurance contributions. And that's true. Anyone who has acquired pension rights is not obliged, because he has no employment or business relationship, to pay social security contributions for pensions. From this point of view, it comes to the other point of view that since you have no contribution to the growth of social security income, there is no way your pension can be revalued with the growth of social security income. I'm going back to the formula for calculating the amount of the pension. It is said that the amount of the pension is determined by the income multiplied by 1,1%, as stated in the Social Security Code, the burden of each year's insurance service. In the Kalfin reform, it is foreseen that this coefficient 1.1 will ever reach 1.5. Where's the problem coming from? The income is calculated by the individual coefficient of contribution of each pensioner over the years on what income has been provided multiplied by the average insurance income for the country in the last year prior to the retirement date. And because this quantity is dynamic, it changes every month, the average insurance income for the country changes every month, it grows by 5. 6 BGN, on an annual basis it grows by nearly 50 60 BGN, which means that even people with the same individual coefficient, even people who sit in the same room, work on the same machines, only because they have retired in different months, have a different amount of pension. You must understand that, ladies and gentlemen of the House. This is said in the formula for calculating the amount of pension. If we need to change something, we need to change the formula for calculating the amount of the pension in order to be able to seek justice because the formula goes through the insurance contribution of each of the Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian pensioners. Why am I saying this? Because next year is also envisaged updating pensions with the so-called Swiss rule. The golden Swiss rule is 50% increase in insurance income and 50% increase in consumer prices or inflation. In this situation, in the forecast of the Ministry of Finance and Investigation, 1.2%, the increase in the insurance income, 6.2%, the rate with which pensions will be indexed next year, is 4%. What can we do to seek justice because it is not true that Bulgarian pensioners have no contribution to the growth of the insurance income? It is true, as far as insurance contributions in the revenue section of the state social security budget are 50% from contributions and the other 50% are from taxes. Who pays the most taxes in Bulgaria? The biggest investor in the Bulgarian economy is the Bulgarian pensioners with their budget in the Fund. lv. They are the people who contribute to the growth of gross domestic product, because consumption is one of the important components in gross domestic product growth. So this thesis is the least controversial. Therefore, we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, if this proposal is not accepted, will propose, unlike you, colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria. 19 of the Public Finance Act, as one former prime minister said when the time came, in the course of the budget procedure we will propose a change in this golden Swiss rule. For example, what change can we propose? Instead of 50% increase in the insurance income, the increase in the insurance income is 75%, and 25% increase in inflation, as inflation is rising at a slow pace. And this will give an increase in pensions, ladies and gentlemen, indexing by 5.4%. And do you know how much this measure is worth on the state social security budget? According to information from the actuaries of the National Insurance Institute, it costs 290 million. BGN, which are acceptable to the budget of the state social security. And before I graduate, ladies and gentlemen, I will try to quote an ancient philosopher and thinker. He says: "In a state governed by reason, poverty and misery are shameful. Ladies and gentlemen, rule with reason so we don't all feel ashamed! [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u21	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u22	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Ademov, I respect your professionalism, but since manipulation was carried out by the stands of the National Assembly, I am obliged to return to memory and to what happened just a few months ago. The Patriotic Front Parliamentary Group in the Forty-third National Assembly entered with 19 MPs, and at the moment the public security budget was voted, the group numbered 17. So you committed manipulation from here. I don't know if it's because of the lack of memory of what happened or bad math. After all, you're a specialist in social matters, not mathematics. So I ask you next time to be more objective and accurate when you name such numbers and mention the role of the patriots. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Bogdanov. Here you go. Second line. "The People's Representative Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u24	I will also allow myself to replicate Dr. Ademov for several reasons. Firstly, the proposal, which then announced the Patriotic Front, was practically within a budgetary procedure where there was revenue and expenditure. We were able to amend the draft budget to be linked. In this case, we have a proposal thrown into the empty space that is not bound. Moreover, by quoting the vote, you forgot to quote the vote of all those groups that you mentioned in the revenue section of the budget when you had to obtain the sources of funding for this increase, where we were all blessed by you on the left and by you. In this spirit, the vote was obvious from us wanting to pass this amendment because it was protective and was within the normal budgetary procedure. The vote on the majority of the House on the left was how to both vote and not get the job done in order to have a good election thesis. A lot has changed since then, Dr. Ademov. We have come to elections with the desire to increase these incomes, as colleagues on the left appeared with the same thesis. Neither we nor they won the election. In this spirit we have the reasonable compromise and we have bet all this, including the recalculation of pensions as part of the programme priorities and these are things that will happen in the coming months and years. That is, the priority remains, the formula and the size of these increases remain as a major priority in the current governance, which a priori is right. I believe that the formula and size are defined in our management priorities, but the fact that we have changed the focus of this government is a very small victory for the United Patriarchs. I think that's understandable to all citizens. They do not want to understand it only those who prefer, as you say, with the language of hatred, to remove our merit. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u25	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen! I agree with the statement that it is possible that I was wrong in the numbers, but the people who voted are 13, and on that date, ladies and gentlemen of the Patriotic Front then, and the United Patriots are now, you have already worked together with your colleagues from Ataka. That's where only six people voted. You voted, including revenue, 13 people. Here's the voter's printout. [[Shows document.]] There's no way he's gonna lie to you about that printout! [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] If you want to replicate me, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u27	Please don't go into lines with the hall!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u28	However, there is one sentence in the reply that is worth the attention: The situation is different now. Yes, I agree that the situation is different now, because then, after the presidential elections and during the previous term, you supported only the Programme, that is, you could offer whatever you wanted because you did not carry responsibility for it. You now have a political responsibility, and that is why you are now voting against this decision. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u29	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u30	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before I make my specific statement, I will read several lines from the 2017 It can combine a balanced increase in pension, on the one hand, with a reduction in the deficit in the system, on the other. The minimum pension for internship and age to increase to 180 BGN. from July 1st and from October 1st to BGN 200 All pensions granted before 2010 will be recalculated, with the average social security income for 2009 with funds saved from improperly allocated disability pensions. And the United Patriarchs and GERB in these documents, apart from the increase of the minimum pension, promise and undertake commitments to call pensions as a necessary and reasonable measure. In their wording, the Management Priories are promising us, but it is clear that they have no intention of fulfilling their commitment to a huge part of the pensioners 1 million 490 thousand and above. [[Noise and lines.]] Moreover, they oppose pensioners for retirement and age...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u31	I'm asking for order in this room. If you want to replicate, please come after the speech!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u32	...of pensioners with disability pensions. We'll give the good guys when we punish the bad guys. But if there's any wrongful disability pensions, it's not the pensioners' fault, it's the governments' fault. And for the past eight years GERB has ruled seven. Total costs for all disability pensions amounted to 1 billion. Seven hundred million. BGN, i.e. in order to recalculate pensions for retirement and age, a large part of the disability pensions should be stopped. In the mid-term budget forecast for the period 2018-2020, uploaded to the Ministry of Finance, all social payments are again frozen. It shows that the government plans for the following years that the increase in pensions will be within not more than 2,5%. This will lead to an increase in poverty and inequalities, a growing and growing lag in pensions for the employment of the older generations of pensioners, compared to the new pensions of those with the same social contribution. Once again, generations and groups of people are opposed. Is that what guarantees foresight and peace of mind for people in the long term? Over 1 million. Five hundred thousand. pensioners, 60% of the total, have pensions below the poverty line. From the budget forecast, as I said, it is clear that the indexing will take place by 2.4% per year, which does not significantly change things. The situation can't wait. The growth of the average insurance income for 2016 is more than 200% compared to 2007, and this, in turn, has its negative consequences for pensioners. Overcoming this difference can only be accomplished by recalculation. This is what the current Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov, who said last year that a recalculation could actually be carried out, and this is by the will of the National Assembly. We all know that! The principle of solidarity and equal treatment of insured persons laid down in the Social Security Code, as well as compliance with the principle of compulsoryity and comprehensiveness of insurance, must be respected! However, in order for it to happen, there needs to be a levelling of pensions for persons with the same or approximately the same contribution. The problem is related to the old pensions their lag and there is no effective mechanism for this to happen. According to NSI information, our bill provides for additional costs of around 400 million. BGN, and the year-round effect of additional costs amounted to around 900 million. lv. Yesterday, in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, it became clear that the re-execution of the budget of the State Social Security according to forecasts by the end of the year is expected to be over 280 million. After all, if we make such a decision in this House, we will not, in part, violate the financial parameters of the budget, or with a very small amount of around 200, up to 300 million. lv. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. Seven hundred and 719 people, which means that after the 2012 recalculation, the effect will be on 62% of pensioners. From the proposal in the amendment of the budget of the state social security linked to an increase in the minimum pension, we see that at the moment around 520 thousand. pensioners, after receiving this increase on 1 October of the minimum pension of 200 leva, the effect will be on 800 thousand. pensioners, or 38%. In fact, our proposal is reasonable and within the reasonable limits of making it possible for 62% of pensioners to receive their recalculation of pensions. In conclusion, I will say this: it is normal to carry out a number of years of such recalculation, because indeed pensions are extremely low and people are miserable. We have one of the lowest pensions in Europe and this compromises Bulgaria and the Bulgarian rulers in the eyes of the world, especially when in a few months we become President and Europe will look at us with another eye. With what face will we give ideas and decisions to our other partners, members of the European Union, and we ourselves are unable to take care of our elderly people? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u33	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska-Zhekova. A line? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It is interesting when one party is in opposition, how is it given, how can it solve all problems, how, almost, everyone else is bad, they are the best?! I will only tell you this: enough years you have managed the Bulgarian state and in coalition and alone. All these problems you could've solved. Why didn't you decide? [[Noise and lines.]] The minimum pension in Bulgaria from yesterday is 160 BGN.? It's 160 leva since yesterday. the minimum pension in Bulgaria? And when you want to come out to make a statement, ma'am, don't come out and say and read, prepared by the party texts, but speak to the substance!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u35	Mr. Angelov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u36	Because when someone claims to know a lot and can solve the problems of the state, they have to come out and say it properly! [[Troping with legs from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And the other, you have always increased pensions at the end of your mandates when a new government had to come and look for the money. We are doing the opposite. We are proposing an increase on the second month of this term, and this year the minimum pensions will have the largest increase in the history of Bulgaria at all. If you point to me during management between BSP and DPS when you increased the minimum pensions by 25% in one year, I will tell you Bravo! When you talk about what statesmen you are and how you solve problems, think about what you did when you ruled. And we, as a coalition, have made such a commitment as Coalition "GERB" and "United Patriarchs" that these problems will be resolved during this term. And just because this year is increasing by 25% the minimum pension does not mean that this will be the only increase and indexation for pensions. After the talks we have had, we have indicated the measures from where, what and what funds can be allocated, including for more Christmas supplements for pensioners and so on, things that we will do unlike you! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u37	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Toshev, for a second line. Mr. Tsvetanov for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a few questions for the BSP spokeswoman. Or the BSP reader... [[Happy tidings.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u39	Her name is Mrs. Klisurska-Zekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u40	Yeah, I saw her name. [[Relations of MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] My first question is: do you know when the pension fund is nationalized?... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u41	Mr. Stoynev, please! Please, Mr. Stoinev! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u42	Mr. Stoynev, because you said the account was always reset, to ask you and her...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u43	Mr. Toshev, do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber. Mr. Stoinev, I'm making a note not to call from the scene.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u44	Yeah, yeah! Let's get up and talk from here, not from there. When was Bulgaria's Pension Fund nationalized and how much was it compared to Bulgaria's budget? Secondly, what could Bulgarian citizens, including pensioners, buy during the reign of your Prime Minister Lukanov? Third, how many pensions were there during your Prime Minister Zhang Videnov's reign? [[Noise and lines on the left.]] Fourth, on what date from your government did your Prime Minister Stanishev increase the pensions of pensioners? Fifth, how much has your Prime Minister Oresharski pension increased and then read me these endless references from the NSI and from the National Statistics! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u45	Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov. Third line to Mrs. Klisurska-Zekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Zhekova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This debate is essentially shifting. You don't give any answer in your comments you're making here. I will only give one comparison of all these 27 years: 1990, people who received disability pensions are about 145 thousand in 9 million people. That's 1.5 as a percentage of the population. In the European Union, those citizens receiving disability pensions move from 0.8 to 1.5 as a percentage of the population of the Member State of the European Union. Do you know after 27 years how many disability pensions NSI and the Bulgarian state paid... 980 thousand?! Do you know how much money is being paid from the state budget of 1 billion. Seven hundred million. Lev?! Let us look for these breakthroughs or what every government in these 27 years has missed and allowed this percentage to become 15% of the population, not as it was in 1990. "Five and a half." And when you go out, you talk, and you accuse today's parliamentary majority, let's still talk about the budget having to be stable, we need to give the opportunity to have an investor interest in our country. I also want to congratulate Mr. Toshev here for reminding you of your periods. Let's not go back to those periods that you're constantly alarming about. Let him be objective! And I would like to thank my colleagues from the BSP once again for reading the election platform of GERB and getting acquainted with what we have signed with the United patriots. Yes, indeed, what you have read, we will fulfill it, but we hope that you will also participate in this process constructively, and not in the way that you are doing it today from the parliamentary platform. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You've had the opportunity to rule. You have had the opportunity to implement many policies, but the rate of disability pensions is so high! And each one of you knows that you have to take a real step to limit this possibility of spending so much money.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u47	The weather, Mr. Tsvetanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u48	And they actually go to recalculate pensions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u49	Here you are, dear Mrs. Klisurska-Zhekova, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will say one sentence: we from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we will not go back to the past and we will not look into the past. [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]] Our proposal looks to the future and just because we can't bear the miserable pensioners [[Hangs index finger to the right side of the room]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u51	Please! Please don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u52	...who mix in the buckets for 160 leva... [[Noise and lines.]] That's all we do...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u53	Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u54	I answer the questions specifically, Mrs. Dukova! [[GERB lines.]] That's it. That's it. That's it. [[Drops index to GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u55	Mr. Angelov, Mrs. Dukova! Don't call from the spot!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u56	Specific............................................................................................................ [[Hangs trigger pointer to the right side of the room]] In 2007, during the administration of the government of Sergey Stanishev... And if your memory is short, our... We are well aware of the fact that we recalculated all pensions and the increase for the four-year term of pensions was 108%! [[(Loud noise, calls, applause, ……]] And the other thing I want to tell you! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You are not currently increasing pensions by 25%, if you can think well. The exact account is 22.6% of these low and miserable amounts that are currently in place. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u57	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. [[Loud noise and lines. People's representative Vladimir Toshev poisons himself in the stands.]] Mr. Toshev, what are your intentions?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u58	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u59	Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u60	Mr. Chairman, procedure in the manner of conduct. You must not allow factual lies from this urge! Stanishev did not increase pensions in 2007, but increased them a week before he gave power to Boyko Borisov. And they had to be paid by Boyko Borisov and the first government of Boyko Borisov and GERB, not BSP! [[Noise and lines.]] The second, you shouldn't let people who don't have any idea...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u61	Please, no qualifiers!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u62	We wanted to declare...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u63	Please, no qualifications for people who have no knowledge. You're in a way of keeping... [[Loud noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u64	Okay, you have a concept... [[Radio.]] Okay, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u65	Any more to say? Are there any other statements? I'm looking for Mr. Zablyanov where he is in the hall to replace me. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't abuse your rights. I will apply the Rules very strictly!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u67	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u68	Allow me to speak in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u69	Sorry, Mr. Svilensky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u70	It is in your favour because in the previous procedure you were accused of failing to comply with the Rules. On the contrary, I would like to say to my fellow Members that you are following the Rules of Procedure. Colleagues speak correctly, and you didn't take away their word.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u71	Well, that's not the way to run it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u72	There is no way to blame you for not leading this case properly, because all the data that the colleague said was true and the pensions that were paid in 2009 and 2010...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u73	Please, Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u74	They had not paid them Mr. Borisov, but they had paid them all Bulgarian citizens from the budget. And that should be clear. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And that's true. And I'm not lying right now, so, Mr. Chairman, keep up the good work and you'll have my support. Thank you. [[Shouting, noise, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u75	Are there any other statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that the proposed by the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria "Project to supplement the Social Security Code meets the daily expectations and interests of a huge number of Bulgarian citizens." According to the opinion of the National Insurance Institute, it affects 62% of pensions, I would add, subject to one of the basic principles of social security, equal treatment. People understand this principle as synonymous with justice and believe that it can be achieved through Bulgarian legislation. You don't have to be much of a specialist on pension insurance issues to find that in the current social policy, the old social policy, I put this concept into quotes because of the terminological incompleteness, they are doomed to fall behind the new ones. As is known, this is directly related to the much faster increase in average social security income in the basis of new pensions and the proposed increase in the burden for each year of insurance service, on the one hand, and the significantly lower percentage of annual indexation of old pensions. Visible by the transcripts of the National Assembly a year ago, the then governor of the NSI, now Minister Boris Petkov, has found before the Social Commission: The fact is that there is a lag in the size of the old pensions. The reason is that in recent years pensions have been indexed not according to formula and rules, but according to the financial possibilities of the budget of state social security. Scientists dealing with problems are even more explicit. Here's what one of them says: Consciously or unconsciously the inevitable negative social consequences for the old pensioners are withheld, especially in the long term, leading to a deepening of the observed lag in the size of the old pensions compared to those newly granted to those with the same contribution to the pension system. As a consequence, this is opposition to the old and new pensioners, a permanent loss of place in the social hierarchy of the old pensioners and an increasing level of poverty among them. You can hear them talking from the forensics about the fundamental violation of justice. The change we have proposed can be characterised as an essential step in restoring this justice. Here's an example from everyday life. That's the kind of example Mr. Gokov wanted to set yesterday, but he stopped and saved it. Anyone in this room can give dozens of such examples. A teacher with an old pension, with the indexing, under the Swiss rule and without the widowers, now takes BGN 254. Her neighbor also a teacher, but retired a year and a half ago, starts with a minimum of 430 BGN. Not that there's a lot of them, not a lot of them. Both worked in the same public sphere, both trained and raised Bulgarian children. These examples are everyday, they are of life. They are asking us how through the law to restore justice between people who make the same contribution, and now, at the right time. Why? Because in the future, which is drawn, no less unfairly is pensions that will be allocated to people retired after the end of 2026 will be 36.3% higher than those allocated in 2016. This forecast makes the National Insurance Institute in Actuarial, its forecast report on the development of the insurance system. Now is the moment of today's Vidov Day to restore, albeit in part, the justice by increasing the pensions, an increase based on the principle basis and reflecting the contribution of each person involved in social security. Now is the time for the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria to be supported by every member of parliament because of the current citizens and their descendants. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u77	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. Please, the Quaestors, call your fellow Members to the Chamber. I put to the first vote a bill supplementing the Social Security Code, No 754-01-1, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2017. Please, honourable Members, we are voting. Vote 206 MPs: for 93, against 3, abstention 110. The bill hasn't been passed. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Go out and ask for a re-vote. Do you want a re-voting now?! It's a little too much.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, of course I'll ask for it from the stands. I ask for a re-vote, as colleagues have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u79	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. It's a re-vote. They voted 213 MPs: 98 against 7, abstention 108. The bill hasn't been passed. Moving on to the next point: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE COUNTERPARTIES OF THE CODEX OF THE SELECTED CODEX. The first Draft Law No 754-01-2 was introduced by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017, and the second Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-19 was submitted by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will be presented to you by the National Representative Maria Ilieva. [[Part of the MPs from the SG of the United Patriarchs are leaving the hall. The House also leaves MPs from other parliamentary groups.]] Wait, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Colleagues who wish to leave the Chamber shall do so, and the rest please take their seats. Mr. Velkov, Mr. Ermenkov, will you take your seats or will you leave the room? [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Okay. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u80	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-2, submitted by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-19, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u81	One moment, Mrs. Ilieva. Mr. Letifov, please, if you have conversations, it is disrespectful to stand with your back to the speaker. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At its meeting held on 13 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 754-01-2, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017 and the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Election Code, No 754-01-19, submitted by Mustafa Sali Karadayi and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: Mrs. Krastina Lekova, Acting Head of Department of Legal Affairs, and Ms. Denitsa Moteva, Chief Legal Consultant at the Department of Consulate at the Department of Consular Relations and by the Central Election Commission Mrs. Maria Mussorlieva Vice-President and Mrs. Katya Ivanova Member; Mr. Stoil Stoilov, Expert in Election Law; Mr. Kaloyan Pragov and Mrs. Eva Marcheva from the Association of Civil Society Experts. The draft amendment and supplement to the Election Code, No 754-01-2, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017, was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who stressed that it aims to change the electoral system in elections for MPs from proportional to majority system as a result of the national referendum held on 6 November 2016. Mr. Kirilov emphasized the advantages of the majority electoral system related to the personal qualities of the candidate and the closer connection with his voters. The bill introduces the majority electoral system with an absolute majority in two tours by creating 240 single-member electoral regions in the country. In each one-mandated election area, it is envisaged the formation of regional electoral committees consisting of 13 members, including President, Vice-Presidents and Secretary, proposed by the parliamentary parties and coalitions. It is proposed that candidates for MPs may be offered for registration by only one party, coalition or initiative committee and only in one single election area, and that candidates will not be able to be included in the candidate list of another party, coalition or initiative committee. It is envisaged that the names, boundaries and numbering of the electoral regions will be determined by a decree of the President of the Republic on the basis of a uniform norm of representation for the whole country depending on the number of population according to data provided by the National Statistical Institute based on the results of the last census and by the Directorate-General for Civic Registration and Administration at the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. With the Bill, it is proposed that, within one month before the first election for MPs under the majority electoral system, Bulgarian citizens living outside the Republic of Bulgaria should be able to submit applications for active registration for voting outside the country via the website of the Central Election Commission, and the conditions and procedure for carrying out the active registration should be determined by the Central Election Commission. It is envisaged to reduce the annual amount of the state subsidy for a given real vote of 1 lev for political parties and coalitions. Mr Hamid Hamid presented the reasons of the Draft Law for amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-19, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. With the bill it is proposed to cancel the mandatory vote, as well as the box I do not support anyone. The aim is to restore the rules for the formation of polling stations outside the country, which took place in 2014 and 2015. The possibility of using mother tongue during the election campaign by individuals who are self-defined as belonging to minority groups in the Republic of Bulgaria is introduced. The Central Election Commission is proposed to determine the order and lot immediately after the expiry of the registration period of parties, coalitions, initiative committees for the respective elections, and they may, when registering their candidate lists for each type of election under the list number, which coincides with the lot number, not have a candidate. In the discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-2, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs, took part the MPs Krum Zarkov, Yavor Bojankov, Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Hamid Hamid Philip Popov, Yavor Notev, Emil Dimitrov, Yordan Tsonev, Pencho Milkov, Iglika Sabeva, Valeri Zablyanov and Dimitar Lazarov. MPs Krum Zarkov, Yavor Bojankov, Pencho Milkov, Filip Popov and Valeri Zablyanov expressed their negative opinion on the bill, indicating the following shortcomings of the majority system: weak representativeness of voters, reduction of political competition and encapsulation of the one-mandated election districts. Mr. Zarkov noted that the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is ready to submit a draft draft mixed electoral system to the National Assembly. Members of parliament Hristian Mitev, Yavor Notev and Emil Dimitrov said they would not support the submitted bill. Mr. Mitev stressed the excessive administrative burden and the need for additional human resources in the electoral committees. People's representatives Hamid Hamid and Yordan Tsonev noted that a change in the electoral system was needed in order to discipline the system itself by expressing their willingness to support the bill of first voting and pointing out that they would make proposals for its clarification. The MPs Danail Kirilov, Dimitar Lazarov and Iglika Sabeva expressed their support for the proposed bill, with Mr. Kirilov noting that the voter's will to reduce the size of the state subsidy is being fulfilled. Mr. Danail Kirilov emphasized on the readiness of the political party GERB to discuss other legal and technical options of individual provisions. Representatives of NGOs and the Central Election Commission took part in the discussion. In the discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-19, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, took part Christian Mitev, Yordan Tsonev, Emil Dimitrov, Hamid Hamid, Valeri Zhablyanov, Dimitar Lazarov and Danail Kirilov. The MPs Hristian Mitev, Emil Dimitrov and Valeri Zablyanov expressed their negative opinion on the bill. Following the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs voted: - with 12 votes in favour, 10 votes in favour and without abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-2, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017; - with 2 votes....... 11 votes against....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u83	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. The importers have the floor to present the bills. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, on the first bill. The bill has been allocated to another Commission - the Committee on Budget and Finance - but we do not have a report. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to briefly present the main highlights of the bill, which has been tabled by Tsvetan Tsvetanov and our parliamentary group with number 754-01-2. The bill is reactions and implementation of the will of the majority of Bulgarian voters, which was expressed in the referendum held on 6 November 2016. Three questions were raised in this referendum. With the Bill we give legal solutions and legal development on two of them. The first in terms of majority voting, the introduction of a majority system in two rounds with an absolute majority and the second issue in which we give a decision according to the vote of the vote, this is the reduction of the subsidy for parliamentary represented political parties from 11 BGN. on a dollar. On the third issue, which was chronologically ordered as a second, amendments to the Election Code were adopted in May 2016. For this reason, we are not developing the matter of the mandatory vote. In relation to the key problem of introducing and establishing a majority system, in our bill we have proposed dividing the territory of the country into 240 one-mandated electoral regions. This is a serious transformation from 31 multi-manded constituencies in 240 one-mandated constituencies. We have not proposed in the Bill the formation of one-mandated electoral districts outside the territory of the state, but we insist and give legal solution for Bulgarians abroad who have the opportunity to vote and their voice to be reported on the last permanent residence. We believe that in this way all distortions and disproportions will be overcome when determining the weight of individual one-sided electoral regions, as we will ensure the right of Bulgarians abroad to exercise their right to vote. In this situation, performances of two serious technical prerequisites will be required. The first is to have a flexible opportunity for Bulgarians abroad who will vote, to have an undisturbed technically guaranteed opportunity to choose which corresponds to the electoral list. This means that a technical method for voting should be used. The method of electronic voting is most favorable in our view, as it would enable the machine to generate and contain all 240 registered lists. With regard to the complex question of zoning. We had a very long debate, we worked with a lot of expert teams, we saw and we were convinced how subjective the approach and method of zoning could be. In order to protect the participants in the competitive political electoral struggle from the temptations to prejudge, to predict, to draw according to the electoral regions, we have therefore proposed that this function be implemented under the auspices, management, monitoring, participation and control of the President of the Republic. We believe that in this competitive process it is the most equally remote from all participants and could restore confidence in the electoral system and in the electoral process and allow for impartial zoning, and for this purpose it could use the entire administrative tools of the state, all departments and administrations of the state, which contain data, databases or have corresponding competence in this connection, will not list them all, you well know them all, not only GRAO, not only NSI, not just the Data Base In view of a public statement, it becomes clear that the President would not want to take on this responsible job and function. I would not like to say that this decision must be pure and pure only for the legislator, although, formally, this decision must be taken in this House. It is important, of course, willpower and willingness, because especially in the initial application, it will require serious commitment and motivation to achieve an accurate and objective result, but in the event that this reluctance continues and we enter into a debate between first and second reading, we are prepared to propose that this work be carried out according to the competent authority under the Election Code........................................................... the Central Election Commission, which, in order to complete this task will really have to do a very serious mobilisation, will have to do a................................................................................................................................................ I allow myself not to enter into a debate on characteristic and history, the specific requirements for majority vote as its correlation to other electoral systems. I am convinced that in this debate this will be one of the main topics. But I will say again that, in our opinion, since the Bulgarian voter definitely stated with over 76% that he wanted and preferred this electoral system, we should do the voter's will, we should be responsible for this volition and I would say that we should make the right decision. In addition, in all our actions and in the forthcoming debate, I believe that we will exercise such a responsibility to parliamentarians that we should convey confidence in Bulgaria's electoral system and its development, not destabilize with suggestion and lies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u85	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. The second bill? You're welcome to present it, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, you have heard from the opinion of the Legal Committee in detail what we are proposing. In a few words about each of our proposals. Many of them have been imported before, and we will continue, colleagues, to import them until they are accepted, because we believe that they are important and are in favor of the Bulgarian society. First of all, we want the ban on pep talk in a language other than Bulgarian. This, fellow Members, is a problem because it is contrary to established democratic standards; it is contrary to the four-fifth recommendations of the Venice Commission; it is contrary to the recommendations of the OSCE Limited Mission; it is present in several Council of Europe reports and the recommendations, as I sense, will not be so persistent but will be more judgmental towards Bulgaria. We offer a translation into the official Bulgarian language in the same text because it is normal for someone who does not know the language in which the campaign is performed. The other thing we are proposing, fellow Members, is to remove the text on compulsory voting. This text is dead, it does not work, especially after the Constitutional Court's decision to declare unconstitutional texts, which introduced the penalty for those who did not vote. This text is dead, and it's better that it's gone because it doesn't work. You see what a large percentage of Bulgarian citizens did not comply with it and I ask you not to make all these people feel that they are breaking the law, although there are no sanctions. We are proposing a solution to avoid the phenomenon that became known as 15:15 "this error which we have come up with without putting up with the preference regime. He's still the same. We propose the lot for the number of parties, coalitions and initiative committees in the integral ballot to be held before the registration of the candidate lists and immediately after the registration of the parties, coalitions and initiative committees. In this way, we will allow any party or coalition when registering its candidate list to leave the space blank, which coincides with the number drawn on the lot of the party or coalition. We offer this as a right, but not an obligation of any party. In other words, parties who are not worried about this mistake can safely register there with whomever they decide. I think that this will in no way affect this strong majority element, the preference, and will enable each party to decide on its own how to avoid this. We also propose to restore the regime for opening sections outside the Republic of Bulgaria, which acted until the 43rd National Assembly introduced restrictions, introduced a limit on these sections from the beginning of the country, then we lifted this limit for the European Union, but anyway these texts allowed, colleagues, Bulgarian citizens to be categorized. And this is something that our Constitution does not allow, and I believe these texts are unconstitutional. The Constitution guarantees the same rights of every Bulgarian citizen and it is unacceptable by law that citizens should be divided into three separate categories of people living in Bulgaria, those living in countries of the European Union and all others. I therefore ask you to support these texts, and we will then speak on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u87	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members! Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We will support the proposal for the draft amendment to the Election Code, as we are firmly for the introduction of the majority element in the country's Election Code. Naturally, we also have our own opinions and our own ideas that we think are beneficial to society. Yesterday, we submitted to the National Assembly a proposal to amend the Election Code, which differs in its main part and in particular in the number of areas. Thus the proposal of colleagues from GERB for 240 one-sided regions in our version remains the number as it is now, also multi-mandant. We believe that in this way we will save not a little money for the state to organise this type of election. At the same time, we will avoid transferring this hot potato who-how to distribute the new 240 one-mandated areas. We declare ourselves firmly for the introduction of any initiatives and changes to the Election Code, which will lead more and more to the majority element in the elections. I hope that all of you, with interest and conscience, will get acquainted with what we have proposed and now between first and second readings, respectively, at second reading, will support us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Do you have any lines for the speech of the MP Hristov? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u90	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, today we are debating an extremely, perhaps one of the most important topics in Bulgarian society. This is the topic on which the representative authority will be chosen - a topic that, on a global scale, if someone has bothered to summarize and examine the various electoral systems - may have found that in the world there are cases that can be counted on the fingers of one hand, in which you can designate a electoral system in a single-chamber parliament with a parliamentary representation that is majority, with absolute majoritys in two tails. The reason is that much and historically majority systems in the world are present in a further period. In the period after Liberation it is true, the first systems with which the MPs were elected in Bulgaria were majority. The proportional system was then introduced for one simple reason. The proportional system gives way to the idea, to ideology as a leading and gives greater representation in the Bulgarian Parliament to different parts of Bulgarian society. The majority system itself can exclude much of the Bulgarian society, stay outside the parliament, not be represented or suppressed at the expense of everyone else. There are many such examples. Including if you look at the presidential elections in the United States, you will notice that President Donald Trump is elected with fewer votes than his opponent, yet he is the President of the United States. This in itself led to some public events, let's call it. The first thing I cannot agree with with colleagues from GERB, who are also importers of the Bill, is that we must accept it necessarily, although the court tells us the opposite thing, that is, not debate. You see, we shouldn't have a broad public debate on the subject. Because, colleagues, at least I think there are a few problems in what we are being offered. If you can imagine a polling section, come on, the plenary room is quite large, but you know the size and size of the polling stations in the country and abroad, imagine a polling section where there should be 240 boxes in which you should post the ballot. Imagine a polling section abroad that has to draw up 240 electoral protocols different for each region, and the first thing you have to do when you go there is to establish by ID card you in which section you have to vote on, which list you have to sign, which ballots you have to give you, and this process you have to track it down and then you have to vote on. With the proposal.. possible in Bulgaria, see, to be able to vote with the paper ballot and with electronic, and outside to vote only electronically, we somehow put an imbalance that the Constitution forbids us. The Constitution has told us that no matter where the Bulgarian citizen is, he has equal rights with the one in the country and we cannot say: because you have gone abroad and you are not here, you will have different rights; if you go back to Bulgaria, you will vote with the paper ballot, if you sit abroad, you will not vote with the paper ballot. That's not an option. The biggest problem in one legislation, which is majority for a electoral system, is the definition of the boundaries of the regions. In the English edition of Wikipedia, if you look into it, there is a table showing the different methods and methodologies in which you can build an area. This table shows the strengths and weaknesses of each region. I still wonder, though for half a year now, after the referendum has passed, after it has taken place, who will be this institution in Bulgaria, which will be the one that will be able to sow the fairest and say: this will be the system? I am very interested whether there is some invisible structure in the presidency that is called the structure for determining the electoral regions in Bulgaria. This is the biggest trap and the biggest trap that exists in such a system. Not to mention the other principle is who's going for a run. If we have two people at the run-off, the Bulgarian practice has proven that the vote is being held against and not against, then can we argue that the candidate is the good candidate or is he the bad candidate? Then in the plenary, what candidates will the good candidates or the bad candidates fall into? If we look at it differently, some say: we insert the majority element. Then those who say it, why are they fighting in the chest and saying that the preference is a majority element? If we have said that we have now given majority and this majority there is also now in the Bulgarian electoral system, then what are we walking towards? Someone will say, "What's the majority?" Anyone in this room and any candidate for a Member of the National Assembly may run as an independent candidate. When he runs as an independent, then he can show his figure as majority how much she would weigh in society and how many votes I would collect. In the last parliamentary elections held, the number of independent candidates had in almost every election area, and the total weight of the votes they managed to collect was about eight thousand. Why don't I take the reference out of here? Preference is a preference when you have already chosen a party to vote on ideology, for example, or because the leader of a party is sympathetic to you and you already prefer who you might cast your vote for. In itself, the preference is not 100% majority. Here I will open a clamp to my colleagues from the DPS. Their thought in the direction of the reference and in eliminating the error 15/15 is correct. But my suggestion, which can be thought of, is replacing the digital sign with an alphabetic one. There the only problem would be created in local elections, with the longest list in Sofia for municipal councillors is 61 and the dubulation becomes 122. So we're going to have to duplicate it three times, like a, b, in and out. [[Reply.]] You can figure it out. This is also a way to avoid this error, because elimination in itself, you see, if the number comes out, if you can remove it, change it, or if you can displace it, it's not appropriate. Because it could damage any of the rights of any of the members of the list. But giving equal grounds to everyone else would be absolutely normal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u91	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Are there any lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, my question is very brief and clear: do you know how many countries in the world there is a majority system in the pure form that we want to introduce right now? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u93	I don't know if Mr. Alexandrov is a fan of the majority system, but come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u94	I am not a supporter, but I can tell you that, in this kind of country, if we compare it anywhere, I think there are four or five, the way it is offered to us in the terms of our Constitution. They're characteristic, for example, the Central African Republic and so on. Majority systems also exist in single party models in the world, and for this reason it is believed that the majority of society votes in a majority way. Look at North Korea, and so on, they vote with these systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u95	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Popov. After him is Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I will focus mainly on the first Bill because it practically reformates the entire electoral and political system in Bulgaria. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The pure majority system practically kills democracy, representation in parliament, as well as pluralism. The proportional electoral system, as such, is designed to compensate for the shortcomings of the majority. It was first applied in 1889 in Belgium. Some of these shortcomings of the majority electoral system will try to present to you in my speech. The majority system leads to a lack of parliamentary representation of a large percentage of voters. And in relation to the previous question, the system is applied in 58 countries in the world, most of which are located in Africa and Asia: Eritrea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Gambia, Kenya, Nigeria, Tanzania. In Asia, these are Indonesia, India, North Korea, Pakistan, the Philippines, Myanmar. This system will lead to distortion and lack of representation of half of the votes in practice. This system hides at least two severe hazards and two severe disadvantages. First of all, it benefits large parties at the expense of pluralism and will lead to a severe blow to democracy. Secondly, the other danger is that as a whole this type of electoral system in Bulgaria will break down the national political system and will stimulate the formation of local and regional parties. The election campaign will be fragmented, regional and not national, which on the one hand makes it more expensive and will certainly stimulate the crime of buying votes. This is in Bulgaria and you all know it well and know it. The impact on voters will be total and will include: agitation, pressure and racketeering from the so-called local feudals. When offering practical termination of the state subsidy to parties will strengthen corporate pressure, interests of a local nature. Policies, ideas and beliefs will give in completely to private economic interests. Thirdly, another serious flaw is that the majority electoral system has a large loss of votes. This loss comes from the fact that the votes cast for the candidate concerned are being lost. Only the votes of the chosen candidate have contributed to the vote. And the votes lost not only for the unwinnable, the votes lost for the candidate who won, but he didn't need them for the win. The votes cast for the unelected candidates have virtually no value at all. When a majority system is applied by an absolute majority, it is possible for the applicant to receive 50 plus one votes. In this situation, the remaining 49.9% of voters who exercised their voting rights remain without parliamentary representation. The majority choice is that in the election district wins this candidate who has won the most votes, no difference which party raises him and what policy or ideas the same follows. In Bulgaria, in addition to quality people with authority in the majority electoral system, quite questionable politicians will enter the parliament, who have made their way to the parliamentary place with expensive campaign or with direct buying of votes. In the Bulgarian conditions in parliament will probably enter 240 or at least two thirds of political and irresponsible to national policies MPs, people with self-confidence that they are majority elected and whether they express party affiliation, will hardly succumb to party discipline, consistency and predictable policy. They're gonna jump from group to group, and everyone's gonna pull the rug to themselves. If there is at all a parliamentary majority, it will be too fragile and there will be great, unseen hagglings so far in practice for every single vote. There will be no way to form a national line, strategy and policy. Governments will be very unstable, will not do any work and will most likely change almost every six months. This opinion is expressed in practice by all experts in the debates and debates held so far. Because of these arguments and in view of our consistent position and our national responsibility, we at the BSP for Bulgaria and we will not support this Bill because it does not solve the political problems in Bulgaria, does not cure the handicaps of our political system, because of which we voted part of the Bulgarian people in the referendum, but deepens them and achieves only the private party interests of GERB, presented with a large dose of populism and demagogy. However, this debate should not stop here, but should be held responsibly, stately, with a stately manner and thought, in depth and analytically. Dear Members of Parliament, when Aleko Konstantinov wrote his writings, he made elections with Gochoolu and Dochoolu, the system was majority and he very well described all these disabilities. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u97	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking into account the bill so tabled. Colleagues, a study of an agency was announced yesterday, in which is clearly expressed the attitude of Bulgarian citizens towards the majority vote. There is a serious decline in supporters of this system. Why is this happening? Because for several months the Bulgarian citizens have already understood what dangers this majority system can lead to in two rounds. If we go back: it was initiated, a group was created, signatures were collected to initiate a referendum on this system. There was no explanatory campaign and there was talk about how the Bulgarian Parliament will be built only by individuals who will have a direct attitude towards the Bulgarian citizens. However, this was a delusion for the Bulgarian people. It is a fact, as at the beginning was said, that a large part, the majority of all Bulgarian citizens who participated in the referendum, voted for this system. But I ask: why, when there was a proposal for the referendum to be held not together with the holding of the elections for Bulgarian President, and if there was an explanatory campaign which are the main threats to Bulgarian democracy in the so proposed system, I am not sure whether the majority of Bulgarian citizens who participated in the presidential elections and supported the referendum would vote with a positive sign? Dear colleagues, instead of undermining the party vote, as is claimed, this was precisely the intention of the importer. This will lead to a retreat from the weakening of the party vote by the citizens themselves with the introduction of the referendum, enabling these citizens to choose one out of dozens of candidates proposed by the party concerned. If the actual motive of the proposed change is the choice of individuals and the restriction of the party vote, then such an effect has at the moment with this electoral system, namely with preferences. To see whether the proposed majority system would actually lead to the expected weakening of the influence of party power plants, it is enough now to take Bulgaria's map and count the majority elected mayors in the country during the last local elections in 2015. It is clear for everyone that one third, even more than one third of the majority elected mayors with the current electoral system are from one political party. In addition to this negative effect, I will also point to one more, as far as the parties' chances of success are directly dependent on where the borders have been pushed. When we draw the boundaries on which the 240 electoral regions are based, the battle for them would be very fierce and the likelihood of the outcome being impartial is very low. One of the popular criticisms against this majority democracy is the drawing of the borders of the one-sided regions in a way that gives priority to a political party. This is exactly the practice of Jerry Mandering or the pre-set choice. Let us note that the definition of the borders of the one-sided regions will probably be carried out by an administration which is subject to the government, honourable Members. We expect such a electoral system would increase corruption pressure. Often, even a few votes would prove crucial to the election of a Member of the National Assembly. In this regard, the arguments put forward lead to the following conclusions. There is no reason to expect positive effects on our political system, and quite the opposite there will be negative, namely the reduction of political pluralism in democratic Bulgaria, the reduction of competition, the reduction of citizens' representation, the creation of conditions for corruption of the electoral process and the challenge of the results, which would further undermine the confidence of the citizens in the democratic process in Bulgaria. These arguments should be sufficient to understand why the proposed electoral system is not used to elect a legislative body in any modern democracy. Of course, we can experiment with a new electoral system if the current system does not satisfy us, but it is good to know what the cost of such an experiment is. If the Movement for Rights and Freedoms was guided by its purely party interest, it should support this system, but since we are a nationally responsible party and are always guided by national interest, we will not support the proposed amendments, namely this majority system for holding elections in two rounds. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? National Representative Georgi Markov. You have the floor, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! There is something very symbolic in that it is our parliament that will debate such an important question whether to go from a purely proportional electoral system, which dominates Bulgaria over a quarter of a century, to a majority. I say it is symbolic because our parliament is a jubilee. It is the tenth parliament of the democratic changes in Bulgaria in 1989. And if we are all alive and well here, it is this Parliament that should meet the 30th anniversary of those memorable months of November-December 1989, that is 30 years, which is enough time to make sense of the way forward in Bulgaria as far as selective law is concerned. Bulgarian citizens had enough time to use this proportional system and finally say with their voice freely and democratically whether they liked it. And they said they didn't like her. And because I look here at many young colleagues, many young MPs, which I think is the power of this parliament, these are future good politicians, I will go back a little bit because some of them were born after 10 November 1989. In Bulgaria there was a very big debate about what the electoral system would be like at the dawn of democracy itself. And this debate happened before the eyes of millions of Bulgarians. I don't know how it was in the country, but Sophia looked like a firefly. The city lit up at night until 3:00 to listen to the Round Table, as if there were an Olympics or a world football Olympics, how to choose the Grand National Assembly, how to choose these 400 people MPs. Two extremely opposites those of the two great formations of the Round Table. The Bulgarian Socialist Party then insisted on an absolute majority system of all 400 MPs. And she was right about herself because at this point, quite naturally, she had much more popular, much more famous state and party functionaries. The SDS in the face of the late Dr. Zhelev was for a fully proportional system. Dr. Zhelev, my late friend, said that in the end these elections would be voted for ideas, for changing the system, or in two words: for communism or for democracy. This big dispute ended with a historic compromise, which for me was a good one. It was adopted a mixed electoral system: 200 MPs to be elected proportionately and 200 majority in one-mandated regions in two rounds with an absolute majority. I had the honor of being one of those elected MPs. There is another colleague here, Mr. Boyadzhiev of Razgrad, and he was elected majority. We're two from the Grand National Assembly. In fact, I was one of those 32 of the SDS elected on the first round. 54 to 46 with a very strong BSP candidate, a very respected head of the County Hospital. It was very unfortunate that in the following year, when a simple National Assembly was to be elected, unfortunately, the Bulgarian Socialist Party to 360 degrees changed its view of the electoral system and of desire in 1990 to be purely majority, with its absolute majority in the Grand National Assembly imposed a proportional system. They were right for themselves the Socialists then, because through the microphone of the Grand National Assembly there were already many popular MPs. On the other hand, it began to split with dashes, center, liberals, petkovists. Then they took 10% and on October 13 we won by only 1% and not 10, for example. I'm talking about the SDS. The truth is that with this mixed system then, in 1990, more than 92% of Bulgarian voters voted. And because there is a lot of talk about a German mixed system, there is a Hungarian system, we made a 1990 Bulgarian mixed electoral system. And then there was a German complicated, there was a Hungarian with residual leaves, but we made a Bulgarian mixed system, which, unfortunately, fell out in 1991 and since then we have been enslaved with this proportional system with the little softening, which was done in 2009, when major 31 MPs were elected. I want to tell you that I'm a big supporter, that's my opinion over two decades, a great supporter of the majority system, it's not a conjunctural one. Therefore, in the distant 1993, it was May 20th, I submitted a proposal for a referendum on majority elections. Yesterday I went to the Library, it was very kind of the lady to give me a sample of the protocols, and I saw that only a year later the question, first, Sasho Yordanov, as Parliament Speaker, second, the honourable Kadir Kadir tried to put it on the agenda, but could not pass for a few votes. The SDS and the DPS voted colorfully, BSP was against it. Janaki Stoilov, who is my friend, a good lawyer, then on behalf of BSP said: "The time for a referendum has not yet come for him. Maybe 1993 didn't come to him, but it already came to him and it happened. Why am I such a fan of the majority system? Because when I was selected majorityly, then I was elected to the Thirty-sixth and on the lists, I was even at the heart of the success of the UDF, my people reacted very well, I live in the center of Sofia, I walk, I never had a car, because there was nowhere to go with it, they stopped me and yelled at me: "We are lilacs! They knew who they chose, we talked to each other, we went to meetings then there were no such halls and it wasn't such a modern parliamentary life in a Trafopost. That is, for many years after that they knew who they had chosen, they were glad to see me and I could tell them what I had done, for example, that I was the MP in the Grand National Assembly, albeit the opposition, with the most adopted bills. Secondly, the personal principle is undisputed in the majority system. This is very important. People want to choose in a one-man area face-to-face candidate. These MPs aren't anonymous. The relationship between the elected MP and the voters is obviously much greater. I said practically, but that's the theory. Secondly, the majority vote itself makes the elections very interesting, it is unpredictable. I'll give an example. Who thought 1990 that it was possible the Army General Dobri Zhurov, so he was a legend of millions of Bulgarians mostly on the left side of the hall, a long-standing minister, he lost majority not in blue Sofia, he lost in Troyan by the unknown, except in small literary circles, Yordan Vassilev. A reverse example in Sofia, blue Sofia: with 22nd to 2nd SDS defeats BSP, but decides the SDS in one electoral region in the capital, saturated with many Roma population, to raise Roma intellectual Manush Romanov, an honorable person, but people preferred your colleague Yanaki Stoilov because Yanaki is a lawyer, better spoke and won a majority term. There was also a very big clash of personalities because the parties at the majority vote then sought to raise strong bids. One example: the poet Blaga Dimitrova, candidate of the SDS. Against her not just anyone but the great Bulgarian artist Vasil Mihailov from BSP. And Petko Voyvoda won the majority vote between the two. And third, which is very important and is an advantage of the majority system, is making larger and stronger parliamentary majorities. It's also in theory, and so is practically. Now the big question is: is that bad? I think that's not bad. You are right in your statements that the proportional system has greater representativeness, that is its power, and small parties come in, and yet we are a representative body. But if we look from the perspective of the Constitution, and all Bulgarians want to be strong in government, in order to have strong governance it must not only be capable of the prime minister and capable ministers, there must be a strong parliamentary majority, because the government is an emancipation of parliament. And we, in the new millennium, colleagues, have not witnessed any party being able to achieve an independent majority and be able to govern, bearing their respective responsibility. It even reached the paradox: in 2014 GERB defeated the second and third parties combined, this is a very big result. And if a foreigner comes, he'll say, "They must have taken 120-130 MPs." No. They took 84 because after them, parties and coalitions were overturned. That is, our proportional system with a relatively low barrier of 4%, in most countries is 5, and without a bonus, which the cunning Greeks have done to win, today it is Tsipras, tomorrow it will be New Democracy, here is 50 MPs on top, created a run for coalitions. And the simplest example was the Reformation Block. They received in the last election 1, 2 and 3 percent, gathered and made 7%. And what was that representation of theirs? I'm sorry they're gone, but people didn't pick them. They were all in coalition with GERB, but one supported the government, the others were fierce opposition, but as a spicy opposition had ministers. It's pseudoparliamentaryism and pseudo-democracy. Not to mention another party, to a respected Bulgarian journalist, Mr. Barekov. What was her representation? She entered parliament to represent her constituents and before the oath fell apart! I mean, it seems to me that 40 parties for small Bulgaria are too many. If our idea is to bring in all the small parties, they're hundreds, let's take out the four percent of all of them. And who would want to become prime minister with an 80-party parliament?! It's a big problem and a great advantage of the majority... Here I talk to colleagues from BSP I have friends with Ivo Hristov, Thomas Tomov, from the Patriots. They sympathize with Victor Orbán! When I walk to parliament, people ask me: how does this work? Not just migrants. How does he do it with the monopolies? How does he do it with banks? How did you get him to give $33,000? EUR for a third child a gift from the state? Makes them two thirds. Because there most of the MPs he reduced their number to 199 but 106 chose majority. That's where you won 96-10! Otherwise, on the leaves, 52% only. And let's get to the point. This debate can be endless because it is centuries-old which system is better, it is centuries-old in different societies, in different democracies. There was both proportional and majority. Now in Germany, Hungary is mixed, which, as I said, is most fair. But Bulgarian citizens have spoken on this issue. And now let's see the vote. Bulgarian citizens! Let's see in the new millennium: who received such a vote, which political figure, which presidential candidate and which party? The dear Mr. Radev won very convincingly in the second round, a strong grouping of votes by half a million below this result. The king has come a wave, I'll fix us in 800 days! People: Hurrah!Supposed to win in all electoral districts. Only he's half a million less. On the first round of these presidential elections: Mr. Radev, Head of the Air Force, Mrs. Tsacheva, Chairman of the Parliament twice, Mr. Oresharski, Prime Minister, and the three did not take 2.5 million. the voice. If we go back to the late 1990s, Petar Stoyanov the voice with a large voice grouping, including with the help of the DPS, is still 7,000. The voice is less. And when we draw the line, what comes out? It turns out that after January 1992, when Dr. Zhelev received 2 million. Seven hundred and thirty-eight thousand. The vote, there's no such vote. Now, some say: "Yes, 2.5 million. only voted, but the remaining millions are against the majority system. Colleagues, let's turn this around. Let's see how many voted for the proportional 500 thousand of the millions of Bulgarian voters. It's just a red card on this proportional system. The Bulgarian electoral system needs refreshment. You see, parties appear to be a new republic want. It's some neoliberal fantasy. What new republic can there be in Bulgaria? With this republic we will drive, ladies and gentlemen, because in order to have a new republic, we need a Grand National Assembly to become presidential. This Grand National Assembly must have three readings of two-thirds! So these are neoliberal things, going people, protesting themselves. A new republic also wanted in 2012 in Hungary because Orban beat them two thirds. They don't know what to want. They're yelling, "New Republic, we want new people!" So there is a need for refreshment and this refreshment can come when changing the majority system, which was adopted in Bulgaria in 1880. There are some problems. One of them's with the precinct. I agree here it is not the Head of State's job to deal with the zoning. If we see the Grand National Assembly Act, which, unfortunately, was repealed three years ago, the Head of State really defined the 200 majority districts, only when the old Constitution took effect then the Head of State had exclusive powers! Dr. Zhelev had a legislative initiative "While elected by parliament," submitted the Law on Depolitization of the Army, repealed the Regulation on Residency, Regulation for temporary limitation of the admission of new residents. However, the current president, albeit majority elected, unfortunately, has much more limited powers... they are constitutionally indicated. We cannot, by law, accept this as a man who has been a nine-year constitutional judge, assign him tasks that are not his business. I agree with the colleague who said about the mandatory vote. This norm isn't just dead. I saw Maya Manolova publicly, here with the guards, and I congratulated her on the courage to approach the Constitutional Court. A great result - 11:0 votes, there can be no mandatory vote in Bulgaria without changing the Constitution. It's simple. If we had told Eagle Bridge on June 7th that we would have made people vote mandatory, they would have hanged us to the eagles! That it all came in the name of freedom of thought, conscience, art. 39, the right to free choice. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 57 forbids anyone to touch these fundamental rights. The text is: they are irresistible. So whether or not this Article 3 will be repealed has a direct effect of the Constitution. Bulgarian citizens need to know that they can refer to this direct action and that this right of free voice is indispensable. I mean, she's really dead. It was better to cancel. I want to finish this. It's called, "There's nowhere else this majority system is currently in Europe." It's in another version in France and England. It's different in different times. We're a sovereign state. Article 1 of the Bulgarian Constitution says that all the power belongs not to Brussels, not to France, not to Russia, not to America, but to the Bulgarian people; that it is exercised by it not only through us the authorities that it has chosen, but also non-mediately! No one can take possession of the people's sovereignty. Over 2.5 million. Bulgarian citizens exercised their sovereign right to the immediate exercise of state power. I hope that we will comply with it, hear the voice of our people God and not bury direct democracy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Mr. Mihov, the line. Mr. Zablyanov............................................. the line, and Mr. Ibryamov...... third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u102	Honorable Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Markov, I'll start backwards. You are right that the people are pronouncing, but I quote the exact number of 4 million. 355 thousand. 222 voters did not support Mr. Slavi Trifonov's majority system, including me. Secondly, you have set an example to the elections for the Seventh Great National Assembly as good. I ask you, as an ex-Sedesar: do you find good results in which BSP won 47% of voters, and received an absolute majority of 211 votes, thanks to this, Mr. Andrey Lukanov became Prime Minister. If the system were proportional then, not the communist, democratic opposition in the various parties would have a majority in this Grand National Assembly. The constitution against which you starved and went out would not be this one! You're defending something that predicted the transition, dominating BSP and former communists. With this, we, the United Patriarchs, cannot agree. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u103	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Markov, we all owe you a great deal for the fascinating story in the history of Bulgarian democracy. Each electoral system tolerates its evolution, not because the MPs have one or the other ideas, but because of the needs of society to reflect what people think, what they want, to reflect their ambitions in politics. In the development of the Bulgarian electoral system in the last two decades there is an important moment that you missed. There is no abstract electoral system operating anywhere. It expresses citizens' group, social, class interests. And if someone closes their eyes to that, it doesn't fit objectively. In 1990, at that famous rally you were talking about, not just the eagles, the chestnuts would have hanged you if you had told them you were going to make such a privatization. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And then today's interests that have emerged, today's large oligarchic circles, which control or try to control Bulgarian democracy, would welcome the majority electoral system, because buying would be fast, cheap and liquidity. Today, there are structured political parties in the Bulgarian Parliament which broadcast legitimate MPs that reflect the actual and political development of the Bulgarian society in the last two decades. They have integrated the values of democracy into their programmes. Today, Bulgarian democracy is two decades ahead of the times that you are talking about....................then we walked, you participated. Many of our colleagues have also participated. The Bulgarian Socialist Party gained its experience. Today, when we observe what is happening around us, the buying of votes, the terrible practices that occurred in the Bulgarian elections, gives us reason to believe that what you are proposing is a return to a past unforgettable, which cannot be repeated because the conditions are different. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u105	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Colleague Markov, when you set an example with the Hungarian Parliament, give with the Bulgarian Parliament half the MPs are all new, they are first term. When we return to those times,.. 1989, because that is what you said, then the left......... did not support the majority system. I don't want to go back to those times. History is a good thing, but it shouldn't be automatically transferred. It's about drawing experience from this story. When we talk about the Grand National Assembly, fellow Members, do your work, look for the minutes of this Grand National Assembly who and in what form was elected?! I don't find those protocols. I even have a memory that ballots were lost, Mr. Markov, there were no ballots. How do I know that you, as a majority candidate, were chosen exactly by the lilacs. I don't have any visual evidence of that. If you want to be an independent candidate, I am not saying that you are not, if you want to be re-elected as a person, this system allows you to appear as an independent candidate not to hide behind the GERB party. You show up, go and campaign at Lulin, Mladost and so on. You're elected and you're a MP like everyone else. Therefore, when we talk about the voice of God, the voice of the people, I will agree, but there are 7 million voters in Bulgaria. The co-worker mentioned that if a number of votes supported, two thirds of the Bulgarian citizens did not support this referendum. We have to be careful when we talk. We must speak not only the whole truth, but the whole truth. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u107	Dear colleagues, I thank you for your lines. You're absolutely right. The colleague from the Patriotic Front, and the DPS, that only two and a half million have supported the majority, the remaining millions have not. But the proportional, as well as the one that is currently operating, was supported by only 500,000 people. He was very poorly supported. This is the truth with the hand of the heart, these are real numbers. Parliament is not as good in people's eyes as it is when we stand here. The level of the institution has fallen a lot............................................................................... The turnout has fallen 50% since 1990. As for what BSP wanted in 1990. It was just then that she wanted 400 majority MPs, but this is politics. The views of the various parties evolve on the issue of the electoral system. After all, two and a half million is such a huge number of voters that we can't just throw this result into the basket. I must tell you: Bulgarian voters were very well prepared for this referendum. Because not three, not six, 36 Bulgarian political scientists, the elite of the Bulgarian political thought flooded all the media, all the space, e-mail and so on, to explain how bad the majority system is, what an apocalypse it will lead to. However, the Bulgarian citizens obviously came to this point from the current system and despite these spells, in the majority voted for majority elections. It's a killer result! Amazing! I did not think that two million voters could be consolidated for anything in Bulgaria. As for privatization, I was not involved in it. I was a constitutional judge and I live in the apartment where democracy found me. It is from royal Bulgaria. I didn't buy an apartment in communism or democracy. I'm a long way from privatization, and I never understood it. I'm strong in restitution. With this hand in 1991, I returned 25 thousand storerooms to Bulgarian citizens, regardless of party color. And Mrs. Nora Ananieva, whom I respect, took her shops, too. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Awesome.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Markov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My dear friend, Mr. Markov! You and I are veterans of the political process, and we can tell a long story from this tribune. Stories are fascinating. I can also tell a lot of fascinating episodes from the beginning of democracy, from before, since I am a member, I have said it from this tribune, I have been a member of informal associations before 10 November. This pluralism came in 1991 with the Constitution I held in my hand. This Constitution was adopted, despite the boycott, Mr. Markov, my esteemed friend, you boycotted it. I, too, as editor-in-chief of the "Democracy" supported the strike of the 39 who went out to protest against... Against what? Against the continuation of the Grand National Assembly because it has become a convention, it has become a Assembly, which is not only to establish democracy and create a Constitution, but to adopt laws. Then came the 39, including you, on a hunger strike an unusual, non-standard form in Bulgarian politics, but those were times. You boycotted this Constitution, actually. This did not prevent you, as a respected and authoritative lawyer, from becoming a constitutional judge, which certainly contributed to the Bulgarian jurisdiction. I would like to draw attention to the fact that art. 5 in this Constitution says that: The Constitution is a supreme law and the other laws can't rely on it. Art. 11 of the same Constitution states clearly that: The political life in the Republic of Bulgaria is based on the principle of political pluralism. It's just something that we fought for together with you, just something that a lot of people dreamed about, wanted, and in some form it appeared. Yes, of course, not the perfect one, not the lovely one, not the perfect one, but who knows the perfect form? There isn't one. It usually becomes what we can achieve. We've achieved pluralism. Today we have a parliament where there is representation of all sorts of parties. There is an opportunity to really enter this barrier is not low, is not irresponsible. Four percent is a responsible barrier enough to be able to form a platform..ideal, political, and enter a party to attract its followers. Party, I repeat, because this word yes, it has been soiled over the years, it has been referred to as bad, but it has been an exercise, deliberately created suggestion through certain media and through public opinion that parties are a bad thing. What's good, then? Anarchy, Bolshevism, totalitarianism, absoluteism? If anyone thinks it's okay to come out and say, "I'm for anarchy." Yeah, come on in, I want there to be no institutions, I want there to be no parties, they're a bad thing, politicians are bad, we hang them and everyone does what they want. Get out there and say it. Whether he's a member of a show programme, a representative of show business, or a representative of politics, come out and make it clear. Not to refer to two and a half million Bulgarians who voted I will correct you, Mr. Markov, I respect you without any consideration. The politicians you mentioned came out after the referendum. They came out in the months when it became clear that many people were deceived by the incorrect campaign in which it was said: politicians are bad, parties are bad. However, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, in this same Constitution, in which we swear when we become MPs, writes clearly: The formation and expression of the political will of citizens is done through the parties. There's no other form. If anyone wants to go out, not be tied to a party, the current laws give a wonderful opportunity to do so. I'm also recognizable, my name is known, I can go out and attract voters. In 2005, I formed a party because the Constitution says so: The parties form political ideas and through them the citizens express them. I formed a party, got into parliament. If anyone wants to come out as an independent MP, my colleague said it here just now. Here you go, and now there's an opportunity. Why do we have to change the electoral law to do something that exists now? It's a scam. What is being done at the moment, which is being proposed and which, unfortunately, our partners from the Coalition of GERB, are giving in, does not work for the Bulgarian democracy. It destroys pluralism, as there will no longer be a possibility of parties expressing any different position than the main "mainstream" as they say, to enter parliament. I will not repeat the colleagues who have already said that the representation of the people will be cut. Something else, people may come in, I told the Commission the other day to reverse your Euro-Atlantic orientation. Dear colleagues from GERB, from DPS, from BSP, you are all members of some European alliance and you are defending Euro-Atlantic values, which currently means membership of the European Union and NATO. Imagine with a clean majority system of 162 who come in and say: we get out of the Union and from NATO, and we go to Eurasia. Oh, it's gonna be a nightmare in political space! What do you mean? And your liberal, national Democratic, Christian Democratic and Social Democratic Alliances will simply roar like a white-time bear, as Ostap Bender said. What will happen to your membership in these alliances? Have you thought about it? Have you thought about what kind of door you open when you support such a majority vote? I'm gonna do it again and I'm gonna finish this. Personally, I have no problem with the majority vote. I can support it, I can go through it and be a MP. But what ideas will develop? What's it gonna be? What majority? On what basis? Now the parties nice, bad, spitting or not, they have some ideology. We don't like her, but she does exist, and whoever likes her voted for her. What will be the ideology of 240 free electrons that will enter very often, and most often now many people already have money to buy votes in a majority area. You know, it's not only happening, it's already a practice, especially in local elections, where it actually happens. Then we will not only have a colorful parliament "unworking," then we will have a parliament in which it will not be clear where the state is moving. If we want to do this, let's experiment. Fine, but since we're reasonable, since we're already human beings, we want to get experience out of history, I suggest the following thing I said in the Legal Commission. The issue is controversial, very authoritative representatives of political science, constitutional law spoke, pointed out very serious shortcomings in this system. Let us be responsible politicians, let us give an expertise to a group of authoritative scientists if they need to be invited from other countries and share their experiences. Based on this expertise to make a real impact assessment of this system, and then let's say we accept it, or we accept some other one, or we start working on a bill that will produce another kind of electoral system if we don't like the current one. That's the state-of-the-art approach, I think. If anyone disagrees, he may say and replicate, but I think that only in this way can we act wisely and statesmanly, through expertise, through a broad public discussion. I would say again: I do not think that people were familiar enough with the peculiarities of electoral systems when they voted in this referendum. They simply spontaneously expressed their dislike for the policy that they have been led decades, and that is also not useful because politics, politicians and parties are part of the same people who voted, they do not fall out of the cosmos. We are part of the Bulgarian people. Speaking against politicians is not constructive at all, it is not good for society, it is not good for the state. Let us give expertise, let us organise a broad, real public discussion and then go to work on a bill to determine the electoral regulation. That would be responsible behavior. Everything else is a game with the fate of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u110	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. [[Applause from OP.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would like to say once again that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms has given up its own interests, its party interests and is behind national interests. It is clear to you all that so far the amendments and additions, even when the Election Code was being formed and drawn up, and all amendments to this Code have always been made against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. For the first time in this House, I see the other political forces feeling the burden when amending and supplementing the Election Law and affecting them, but nevertheless a great political force today, proposing the amendment and the Appendix to the Election Code, goes against national interests. Why is that? If the majority system is introduced with elections in two rounds, it is clear to you that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to be in the next Parliament, and GERB will be in the next Parliament, and other political forces, of which it will be irrelevant whether they are here or not, because the great political power with this majority vote will govern independently. Will it be democratic? Looking at their current rule, I doubt it will be democratic. Dear colleagues, there is a need for a look and an amendment, or as Mr. Markov said: from the freshening of the political system. I think two mandates ago the first attempt was made by the MPs to enter majority, another part proportional. Again, the proposal that we made together with BSP was on the front line of the national interest. Let us make it possible to form a certain political force that is politically responsible for the rule of this country. Dear colleagues, we are not against the majority system. Imagine that in this Parliament 127 or 130 daffodils.. we had one, now there are others. These daffodils, how and in what way will they unite under the hat for the management and protection of state interests? I can't imagine, colleagues, I don't see how this thing is going to happen. Colleagues, I propose today the amendment that GERB offers us, they offer it with the clear awareness that it will not pass in this House, and let the responsibility be theirs. If they find out that this system will pass today, you will see that they will leave the room. They've done it in and out a lot of times. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u112	Mr. Atalay...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u113	Dear colleagues, the weather...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u114	No, the weather's fine, but you can pick your stories anyway. It's sunny outside.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u115	I didn't understand. Did I offend you? If I have not offended you, if you are GERB, if you are not President of Parliament, at all, then you may feel affected.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u116	One doesn't interfere with the other. Ask Mrs. Jaffer who it's from.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u117	In order to be shorter, the majority system in this form, in this state, will not be in the interest of the state. Majority vote can be introduced, there are such systems. Whether it will be the German, French and put to discussion before the public, and can then sit down after a public discussion is made and see whether one of these systems will be accepted, but again I tell you: political responsibility is the main leading idea and in this Parliament it should be known that the majority is of a certain ideology, of a certain political power to be responsible for the management of the state. Everything else is populism. But I also want to focus on those amendments and additions that you have made so far on the left and on the right, and you were happy, for example, about the number of sections. The Constitution, Mr. Markov, says that conditions should be created for all Bulgarian citizens to be able to exercise their right to vote. And in spite of all these requirements,.. and constitutionally, in the previous parliament under the populism of nationalists and GERB voted for the mandatory vote and you have found today that this is stillborn. If today passes this amendment to the majority system, it will not be stillborn, but will have a detrimental impact on the management of the state. And therefore, fellow Members, I propose that the mandatory voting system be dropped. Here comes the question of the number of sections. What's bothering you about the number of sections in Macedonia, what's bothering you about the number of sections in Chicago, what's bothering you about the number of sections in Ukraine? No, you are in the way of the number of sections in Turkey, those Bulgarian citizens who for one reason or another have been expelled from this country and you are now not giving them the right to vote. That was the truth, guys. And we again offer you from the state's approach: let us create equal conditions for all Bulgarian citizens to have the right to vote, and as you have seen, a large part of those in Turkey, expelled from Turkey, voted for GERB in these elections! And as you saw, our prime minister yesterday went to apologize for a Bulgarian citizen when she was pulled by nationalists at the border in Turkey. Instead of sitting down to apologize and remove the nationalists from the government we are going to a foreign country to apologize for Valeri Simeonov. Imagine how far we've come! Next, colleagues, this phenomenon is about the system of preferences. Dear colleagues, this phenomenon has played a bad joke on BSP several times, many times played the joke on GERB, but in GERB acted very intelligently, they removed them from parliament. Some of them made them regional governors, others I don't know where they were sent, but this system of preferences, colleagues, at this rate, when we have the opportunity for each MP to be able to appear as independent and to be elected as MP, without taking advantage of the majority of votes that voted for the idea, for ideology, for the respective political power, must be dropped. And we offer you a softer approach, which I personally disagree with. Ladies and gentlemen, if we do not pay attention to the seclusion, if we do not do so, so that in any parliament there is not a strong parliamentary majority, not only will people vote for a majority vote with two votes, but they will vote in the nearest time to leave Parliament. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u118	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go. Rest after the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The majority vote will be supported by Volja because our voters are tired. They're tired of the huge gap between politicians and people. They choose us and forget everything. And yes, Mr. Siderov is very recognizable and even more recognizable became that he promised 300 leva. pension and no one, and nothing could make him deny this promise, and Bulgaria was above everything, but we all see that power has become above everything. And that is why we will support the majority vote, because our people will not allow precisely such promises that are not being fulfilled by people who are not being implemented to be in the next National Assembly. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u120	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taskova. - What's the line? I won't. However, there are other speeches, so we will take a break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u121	Dear colleagues, we're moving on. The national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u122	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we have had a very serious debate about whether to change the electoral system, whether to be majority, whether to be mixed, or to remain present, which is proportional. Of course, there were enough arguments in one direction and the other, but when more than 2.5 million came out. Bulgarian citizens, I believe that this political debate is not ours. Because we had to have such a debate long before the referendum, long before the presidential elections, so that we could actually inform the public about the benefits and losses of civil society. What we have done is that no one should speak before and during the referendum, so that everyone can actually consummate if there is any energy during the presidential campaign. Some of the parties gave their silent consent to the majority system because they knew that this could lead to some bonus in the presidential election campaign. That is why we were sincere and said that for us the majority system is not something that we think should be applied. However, we will comply with the sovereign, and when the referendum ends based on the results, we will also build our political position. Here I firmly want to say that when we first participated in the parliamentary elections, we know that BSP colleagues then made a electoral system that was mixed. There was proportional, and there was a majority element for all the multi-manded constituencies. GERB then participated under the rules laid down by the 40th National Assembly. Then we had no claim to pretend that we could have made any rules to be adopted by parliament and in which we would participate or someone would have invited us for certain discussions about what the system should be. But when these elections were held in 2009, you saw that society really needs this majority element and it wants to vote for individuals and people who can actually fulfill their commitment all the time when they are MPs. I can't understand why many parties say that the majority system is not a good thing? If we look really, local elections are a very clear majority vote, because you know that when we have an analysis that all parties do, it is evident that the proportional system for municipal councillors, almost always the results are less than the nominated mayor of a municipality. Because we know that the mayor is a person and each of the parties seeks to actually raise the right candidate, who can be elected and can, in the years when he has his management mandate in the local government, be able to actually meet the expectations of the people who have chosen him. I'd still like to take that 2.5 million into account. Bulgarian citizens, because I see that today the hall is full, which means that there will be a high turnout for what to be a majority system or to preserve the current one. I can assure you that this debate will continue no matter what the decision of the 44th Parliament will be today, because society has asked us the relevant questions that we need to answer. And when they are over 2.5 million, I believe that I do not need to take up more of the time and call on as many MPs as possible to support the majority system, because this means that we can actually go out to the public and say: "We have complied with those employers of ours who are over 2.5 million. Bulgarian citizens........................................................................................... Thank you and I hope that indeed everyone will make the right informed choice, and when they voted 2.5 million, I think that we have given them enough opportunity to choose what they want, and we must comply with them. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u124	Mr. Tsvetanov, I address you specifically as an importer. You mentioned the 2009 majority elections. There is nothing majority in this system because you say that individuals are chosen. I was second in Veliko Tarnovo, where you were a leader in 2009 and were majority. Then with great pressure Sergey Stanishev agreed against you to send prof. Pantev. Professor. Pantev is a scientist, historian, who, when you studied VIF, he did a dissertation in London... [[Arrival in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u125	Please, Mr. Pawnov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u126	...and when you've been circling... [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] He taught European history in the States. The result was killing 63 thousand for you and 27 thousand for Pantev, who is a professor at Veliko Tarnovo University. [[Noise and applause from GERB.]] So when they play a lot of money, when money and ideas collide, ideas retreat shamefully. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] Second case.. Vidin. Your candidate, street photographer Lyubomila, went out against Prof. Lyubomila. Geidarski is a unique European surgeon who has saved hundreds of lives. This photographer beat Gaydarski with 1,000 votes. [[(Applause and shouting from GERB:]] But this same photographer in the 41st National Assembly was a fish MP who didn't say a word. Major elected MP!?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u127	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u128	Mr. Pawnov, pick your phrases.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u129	The last example with Mr. Ganev, who was the man-parliament. When he was elected majority at the Grand National Assembly and who passed the Constitution, he took it seriously, and I asked him: "Ginho, why did they choose majority, and then in the 36th they didn't choose you at all?" Vika: I took it seriously as the man-parliament and went to the native Burgas, where I had 4,000 votes. So you don't choose personalities! Because if the party doesn't stand...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u130	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u131	...with finances, with structures, with media, none of them can. Kadyev is famous, appeared 2,000 votes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u132	You're running out of time, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u133	So I repeat, there's nothing major about this whole thing. I'm addressing the MPs on the right! Think about it, and don't vote like lead soldiers! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u135	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, be careful what you wish for, because most likely the law tabled so, although we will support it, as we will support any law that increases majority in the Election Code, it will not pass. But in a week or two, another law will be tabled, which is also for full majority elections. However, he does not have the handicaps of the one who has been imported. And I'm sure you'll have to explain the exact opposite. It won't be two weeks before we deal with the other majority issue, and then I really hope that you will remember today's words and say that you will continue to claim that we must listen to the will of this 2.5 million. Bulgarian voters who really hope that in the end they will enter personalities and people with a protected name in their cities, in our municipalities and really choose and make a majority law so that, as Mr. Markov said, when we meet when we walk among our fellow citizens, we first do it proudly, and, secondly, everyone knows us and congratulate us accordingly for the good things we have done or carry away the majority ruffians if we have not done our job. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Lazarov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u137	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Tsvetanov! In your speech in defence of the submitted Majority Choice Bill, you neglected to mention something. When a party has led a disastrous policy for its country, for its voters, when they have stopped EU funds, when there have been investigations of this party's policy, when this party has been in coalition with other parties, unfortunately, whatever celebrities have raised...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u138	The party is not listed.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u139	...that this party policy always leads to a negative result with regard to personalities. That's just what you're missing to mention, and it's true. In the example of majority elected mayors raised by the political party GERB, this is why they win, unlike the other representatives raised on the left side of the House, who lose because they are raised by a party with failed politics. I am referring to the 2015 elections that followed the management of BSP and DPS colleagues during the Oresharski government.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u140	Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u141	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Pawnov, you have given a good characteristic of me and I can tell you that I have traveled the country indeed much more than you can imagine that one person can do it. [[Applause from GERB]] , and that is why the party GERB is in this state. Since you said you were second on the BSP list in 2009, I didn't see you then, I don't know if you were able to enter parliament then. [[Applause from GERB]] But I can tell you that you have now entered from Varna, as I understand it, because you have been let down again, as you have been lowered in every political decision in the regions without being elected. [[Applause from GERB.]] As I recall, in the previous parliament you may have been chosen by Sofia from the twenty-third multi-mandated electoral area, I think, or it was twenty-fourth. [[Reply: "Wrong! "]] So maybe you weren't a MP, I didn't follow your biography. I just want to say that I respect professor. Andrei Pantev and we had wonderful communication in Veliko Tarnovo. The man confesses, says: "You will go around everywhere, I will sit in Veliko Tarnovo if it happens. Sometimes in the morning, Mr. Pantev and I used to drink our coffee, and at night, after I finished my rounds, I found him again in the lobby of the hotel. Just to tell you something extremely important: when elections are made, people choose real personalities and therefore I have always taken into account the decisions of our municipal structures, the regional structures in the country and therefore since 2009. When I was elected majority in Veliko Tarnovo, 2013 and 2014 and 2016 and 2017 I have always been present in the region and I have always defended my principle position to develop the region of Veliko Tarnovo, I will do so from now on. And the fact that you are being transferred to find a place for you to enter as an MP is the problem of your political leadership. But I can tell you that all MPs elected by the Political Party GERB are nominated at regular meetings of really active political structures. People have their reception days and meet with voters, and therefore have greater authority than your MPs. [[Applause from GERB.]] And that'll be it from now on. Therefore, in the local elections, which ended in 2015, GERB received this success because both the mayors and the municipal councilors and the MPs and the members of the Bulgarian cabinet and the Council of Ministers are people who really did not forget where they came from and never forgot about the people. And as for the money you are talking about, I can tell you that in 2009 the GERB party has neither received subsidies nor had subsidies. It's just that people believed in this citizens' initiative. [[Applause continues]] And we created a party of citizens for the European development of Bulgaria to bring the country back...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u142	The weather, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u143	...in the only possible way... the European, not what you have done with these sanctions [[noise and lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u144	Please order in the court! The weather, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u145	...and with this isolation that our country had! Thank you. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u146	To speak, the public representative Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We understand that in these 27 years, you are all satisfied with what is done. Only dissatisfied remains the Bulgarian people, so about 50% is disgusted by all this and does not go out to vote. I look and see fear. I'm listening and I'm still hearing fear. [[Noise and lines.]] I smell the smell of fear, the fear of listening to the will of two and a half million Bulgarians from those who have gone out to vote and have supported the majority elections. And with such procedural grasps, we should introduce inoperative laws in order to corrupt a good idea to show that this also does not work, to tell Bulgarian citizens: you are stupid because there is now some study that citizens do not support this particular system. Yeah, they didn't support her because they found out she was stupid and not working. But there are smart ones. Why do you actually see it, hear it, and smell that fear? Because shortly after the elections in Bulgaria there were elections in the United States, then or somewhere in this mid-term there were elections at the City Hall in Sofia, and recently there were elections in France. And all these elections have confirmed that there is a wave of resentment against the status quo of resentment in all these years, where, in emptiness, in idle speech, in bringing in unworkable laws, and we have actually corrupted every single idea. And here let me remind you of the numbers one more time. Yes, GERB are the first political force, yes, BSP are the second and so on. But what are the percentages? Sixteen whole and something are the percentages that have GERB from the Bulgarian people, and with sixteen whole and something there can be no dictatorship. A dictatorship can be more than 50% and more, even 50% is not enough for dictatorship. So let us be a little humbler, listen to the will of the Bulgarian people, not to tarnish the good ideas, the desire of the Bulgarian people to vote for personalities. And you're going to say, well, preferences are something like that. No, it's not something like that, because the third one on the list or the fifth or tenth one may not have a single vote of preference, but he may become a MP. With zero votes preferences in their electoral regions, these people cannot be MPs. Therefore, on Wednesday, at 2:00 p.m., we invite all parliamentary parties, civil organisations and media represented outside the parliament to see which hall is the most comfortable, or if we have to in another, bigger, to present to you our idea of a fully majority law in which we may have made a mistake, to listen to everyone and to make majority elections for the next parliament. Let's see who the representatives will be and whether this next parliament will really work better and protect the interests of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian state and the Bulgarian business. Thank you and good luck. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? [[Replyes: No, no, no!]] Are there any speeches or no statements? People's representative Delyan Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u149	My fellow Members, I have listened to the last few speeches. It is not only important that these majority individuals, who are chosen by the people, are supported and liked by the people, but it is very important and what Mr. Tsvetanov said that they should be local people and really people to support them. Mr. Mareshki, don't be mad at me, but on your list in Haskovo, I don't know how it was elsewhere in the country, there wasn't a single person from Haskovo District. For BSP colleagues, I just felt sorry for them because for nearly 20 years there is no leader on the list of Haskovo from BSP. The leaders are always sent from Sofia. They should not only be majority figures, but individuals who are truly responsible for the regions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u150	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u151	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Dobrev! In addition to your surprise, I also wondered why you did not ask why last night the so-called Bill of Law of colleagues from the Political Party was introduced, which contains unique and over-successful decisions for the majority vote? Why did this Bill miss the opportunity to be part of this debate so that we could also discuss these pragmatic models and opportunities?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u152	Apparently, he's about to become part of the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u153	They're going back to paperwork. Please answer me this question. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u154	Mr. Dobrev, perhaps Mr. Mareshki will answer the question. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u155	Mr. Chairman, I only take the floor for the backdrop of my colleague Kirilov because he asked me, but I don't really have an answer to his question. Thank you. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u156	Mr. Mareshki will say in the form of a personal explanation. Let's use the entire arsenal of procedures.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u157	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Dobrev, really everyone has to explain. I put this as a question earlier in other debates: who, on what grounds, for what services in front of the business, in front of the people, in front of his fellow citizens has become a minister? What did he do when he became a minister? Are we happy now that someone was a minister? What can anyone boast about being a minister during a certain period of the many here who were ministers, and at the moment the state is the most miserable and corrupt in Europe! Is that what you're telling me with your proportionate lists?! Our lists were because we were involved in your laws. When we make the majority elections, you will see what individuals we will present to the Bulgarian people! [[Radio and shouts: "Eeeee!" by GERB.]] Then we'll see who has a weight in society, on the one hand. On the other hand, excuse me, but your Varnans, which you presented in Varna, would you like us to go out to the center of Varna together and see if anyone knows them, do they differ as MPs?! [[Laughter]] Would you like some?! I saw you the other day on the plane, and it was the first time I knew you were a MP. [[Loud laughter and excitement.]] We're not talking about your party functionaries, we're talking about the free Varnans. Let's go out, see who knows who, and so will we continue with anonymous lists, with people entering the back of the king, on the back of Borisov or someone else! Isn't that why we want to change this thing?! If you don't want ours to be anonymous, so do yours! You want to go to major elections, don't you? Let us see who will become MPs and what work they will do next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u158	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Only one clarification. The parliamentary elections are for MPs and not for ministers. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Are there any other statements? [[Replyes: No, no, no!]] I won't. We're closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code No 754-01-2 submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 10 May 2017. Vote 220 MPs: 99 against 120, abstention 1. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. To re-vote Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u159	Mr. Chairman, I ask for a re-vote, as colleagues have failed to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u160	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Please re-vote. Vote 220 MPs: 98, against 121, abstention 1. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Ermenkov, here's the first negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u161	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this bill not because I have not heard the voice of 2.5 million Bulgarians, but rather because I have heard it! I voted not against the 2.5 million Bulgarians, but for the sake of their interest, because we as politicians here are called to defend the interests of the entire Bulgarian people! I voted against this bill because you, colleagues from GERB, are hiding behind these 2.5 million as behind a fig leaf, but secretly you hoped this bill would not pass here because it is your policy, showing your hypocritical behaviour towards people.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u162	I ask you for your reasons for negative vote and not for colleagues from GERB!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u163	I'm sorry. That's my motive.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u164	But not theirs to say!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u165	Because I don't want to be on the same team with them. The other thing I voted against is because in Bulgaria attempts to impose oligarchic, private government would have been there if this bill had been adopted. Colleagues, we are sent here to protect people, to conduct policies and to be clearly supported by the parties that conduct them as long as they have them. When a person gives up his party list, it means that he's giving up politics, that means he's giving up democracy. I voted because I'm a Democrat. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Proclaims: "Eeeee!" by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other negative votes? I won't. We're going to vote on the next bill. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Election Code, No 754-01-19, submitted by Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs on 8 June 2017. They voted 209 MPs: 23, against 109, abstentioned 77. The bill hasn't been passed. Re-vote please, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u167	Dear colleagues, I want a re-vote, because once again you will do...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u168	Only if someone hasn't been able to vote. I won't let you get to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u169	...amendment and supplement of the Election Code against the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. At least this time be Democrats and support us.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u170	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. It's a re-vote. Vote 206 MPs: 24, against 113, abstention 69. The bill was not adopted in the first vote. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: Reporting on the implementation of the Privatization Process and the follow-up of the Privatization Process 1 JANUARY 1 - 30 June 2016 and on the implementation of the Privatization Process and the follow-up of the Privatization Process 1 JANUARY 1 - 31 DECEMBER 2016 With the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, we will be introduced by the Vice-President of the Commission Daniela Saveklieva. You have the floor, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First, I would like to make a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for Access to the Hall of Representatives of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control: Mitko Simeonov, Executive Director, and Mihail Vladov, Acting Chairman of the Supervisory Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u172	Please vote on the proposal. [[The outcome of the vote.............................. 122 MPs voted: 112 against 6, abstention 4.]] The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, allow the invited persons in the hall. Please come in for the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will present to your attention "COMMODITY" on the report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 2016 and the Report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 31 December 2016, No 704-00-5 submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control on 16 May 2017. At its regular meeting held on 7 June 2017, the Economic Policy and Tourism Commission examined the reports on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 2016 and 1 January 31 December 2016. The reports were presented by Mihail Vladov a member of the Supervisory Board of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency. In the first six months of 2016, the cash proceeds from privatisation sales, penalties paid, interest and the deferred part of the price of privatisation transactions subject to control were at a total value of 2 870 thousand. lv. During the reporting period, the Agency has incurred expenditure of 1 457.549 thousand. lv. In proportion to the specified plan, the implementation of the costs is 44,28%. Privatization assessments have been accepted for 29 sites. The Agency has proposed for sale 46 sites representing private state property, units and packages of shares by commercial companies with more than 50 percent state participation in capital. Deals have been made for 11 objects. The payments made by the privatisation activity amounted to 838 thousand. lv. As of 30 June 2016, the Agency worked on a resource from: - 9 companies with more than 50 percent State participation; - 8 sites representing shares/shares owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent State participation in capital in other commercial companies; - 23 separate parts; - 63 minority packages of shares/units owned by the State in the capital of commercial companies; - 125 properties of private government property and properties with the rights of management of heads of state offices. As regards 26 privatisation contracts, post-privatization controls have been carried out. A default of commitments under a contract has been found and the buyer has been subject to a penalty. The payments made by the post-privatization control activity and the related procedural representation amount to 2 032 thousand. lv. During the reporting period by the legal advisors and lawyers of the Agency, all necessary and possible procedural actions have been implemented. Payments have been made on effective judgment decisions in 15 executive cases. As of 30 June 2016 subject to control regarding the payment of the price are 182 privatisation contracts. The total number of contracts subject to control in respect of various social commitments and other obligations, including investment obligations, is 91. A procedural representation has been carried out in 203 pending cases. In 2016, the proceeds from privatisation sales, penalties paid, interest and the deferred part of the price of privatisation transactions subject to control amounted to 19 560 thousand. BGN, including 86,46 thousand. lv. in non-cash payment instruments (compensatory instruments). During the reporting period, the Agency has incurred expenditure on its budget for 2016 amounting to 3 252 thousand. lv. Of the 67 sites proposed for sale (shares/shares, property-private state ownership minority packages), transactions were carried out for 24 sites, accounting for 70.6% implementation of the target value of the indicator. The proceeds on privatisation sales totalled 15 806 thousand. BGN, of which 37,86 thousand lv. in non-money. 67 sites are offered for sale. Public auctions with apparent bidding were announced for the sale of 45 sites. 37th, 38th and 39th CPTs were made to which minority shares of the capital of 21 companies were offered for sale. Marketing events were carried out for 66 sites. During the accounting year, by the Agency, all actions on control of commitments undertaken by buyers under privatisation contracts were implemented. As regards 65 companies, post-privatization controls were carried out, representing 163% compared to planned ones. Privatization obligations have been fulfilled under 64 contracts, taking into account the 213% implementation of the target. The payments made by the post-privatization control activity and the related procedural representation amount to 3 581 thousand. lv, of which 48.6 thousand lv. in non-money. A total of 83 reports on 65 privatisation contracts are analyzed and finalised with findings. A penalty of 1 privatization contract has been charged. 30 privatisation contracts have been accepted. On-the-spot checks were carried out in privatized companies and parts of 16 contracts. A verification of documentation has been carried out and 18 certificates of performance and no obligations have been issued. A total of 439 applications in relation to the course of enforcement proceedings are submitted to the HRI/DUI or other body. 48 executive cases were conducted public sale of real estate. In 21 executive cases are scheduled and executed inventory of movable or immovable property owned by the debtors concerned. As of 31 December 2016, the resources of privatisation sites under which activities in the preparation or implementation of actual privatisation procedures are carried out consist of 13 majority shares/shares; 3 shares/shares owned by commercial companies with over 50 per cent State participation in capital in other commercial companies; 62 minority shares/units; 16 units owned by commercial companies with over 50 per cent state participation in capital; 130 units representing private state property properties and properties granted management rights to managers of state institutions for which privatisation offers are available. As of 31 December 2016 subject to control regarding the payment of the price are 176 privatisation contracts. The total number of contracts subject to control in respect of various social commitments and other obligations, including investment obligations, is 88. A procedural representation has been carried out in 209 pending cases. After the submission of the reports, a vote shall be held which shall end with the following results: According to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Review Report for the period 1 January " 30 June 2016": "For............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... According to the Privatization and Post-Privatization Review Report for the period 1 January " 31 December 2016": "For............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt two decisions: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the post-privatization and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the report for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January 2016 ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the post-privatization and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the report for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period 1 January
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u174	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? Here you are, Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will vote against the Father not because it does not objectively reflect what happened last year, but because I believe it was committed last year, I would call it a crime by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control. In violation of the law or rather thanks to a criminal interpretation of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control, privatisation of parts of a company was carried out, which is on the ban list of the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control, namely the diplomatic property agency in the country. We then carefully analyzed the texts in the Law. We found that it was indeed, perhaps intentionally created in a way that would allow this interpretation, although any logic shows that when an undertaking is on the ban list, it is inside with each of its separate parts. The interpretation that the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency then did to prevent such privatisation is also necessary to put each part of the property on the ban list is at least illogical. Again, I think it's a criminal interpretation. In order not to do such things from now on, in one clamp to say, there is an interesting part in this report where interviews have been given to different media on different topics at the end of the report. If you look at it, you will see that half, if not more interviews given by the Agency's management on topics related to privatisation and control, are precisely related to the diplomatic property agency in the country. To also recall that as a result of these actions of the Agency last year, a draft Law was tabled by the Council of Ministers, describing all parts of the property of the diplomatic property agency in the country, which was, of course, absurd. This Law passed at first reading with the support of BSP left Bulgaria and never came to second. A bill was also tabled by the representatives of the Reformation Block, which made an interpretation of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, how the texts relating to the ban list should be interpreted. This also passed at first reading was even supported by GERB then, I think, with the clear awareness that it will not reach second reading as it was January. After everything I have said, I would like to say that we have prepared a Draft of amendments to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, in which we have changed clearly what it means to actually include undertakings on the ban list, in order to make it clear that inclusion of an enterprise means that it enters with all its parts, and that the privatisation of a separate part of such an undertaking can now be done only by a decision of the National Assembly. I hope that these supplementary provisions in the Law will also be supported by GERB, because it is in the logic in which they were also supported by the Law of the Reformation Block in January, and thus close the possibility in a questionable way, in the service of shadow interests, to circumvent the Law and ultimately work for the interest of the state and the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u176	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any desire. Are there any other Members of the National Assembly who would take part in the report? I don't see any desire for other speeches. There is a possibility that the importers, who are guests, may take appropriate action if they are willing. Would you like to take an attitude? You're not gonna get any attitude. I'm closing the discussion. We are about to take a vote on the Quaestors to invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. Colleagues, we are about to adopt two decisions which were read at the end of the opinion of the board. I'm going to replicate their text again. They relate to the two periods which are the subject of a report. We vote: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Privatisation and Privatization Review for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Accepts the report for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period from 1 January to 30 June 2016 We vote. We are waiting because there are MPs who have not yet been able to vote. Vote 88 MPs: 60 against 16, abstention 12. With this result, the proposal is not accepted. [[National Representative Stanislav Ivanov wants the floor for revoting.]] You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose the re-voting procedure, as many of my fellow Members have not been able to exercise their right to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u178	Thank you. I will call again on the people's representatives from the couloirs to enter the Chamber in order to exercise the opportunity to vote for acceptance or reject the Father. We vote, fellow Members. We're waiting for everyone who's coming in now to vote. Vote 116 MPs: 83, against 22, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I read the text of the second decision, which we should vote on the occasion of the report: ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the report on the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in relation to Art. 22d, para. 1, t. 2 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report for the implementation of the privatisation and post-privatization control process for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2016 Please, the Members of the National Assembly, vote. Vote 112 MPs: 81, against 18, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. We therefore adopted both decisions concerning the two periods covered by the report of the Privatisation Agency and post-privatization control. Honourable Members, we are moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL COMMISSION REPORT ON PREVENTATION AND CONFLICTION OF INTEREST FOR 2016 The Commission is the importer for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest. Who's gonna report it? Mr. Kirilov, let's broadcast a representative of the National Assembly to report. You're welcome to brief us on the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u179	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! "COMMODITY" As regards the Commission's Annual Activity Report on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest 2016, No 720-00-9 submitted by the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest on 1 June 2017. At its meeting held on 7 June 2017, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed an Annual Report on the Commission's activity to prevent and establish a conflict of interest for 2016, No 720-00-9, submitted by the Commission to prevent and establish a conflict of interest on 1 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, interim chairman, Ms. Katya Staneva and Mr. Pascal Boyadzhiyski, members of the Commission for Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests. The annual report on the Commission's activity on preventing and establishing a conflict of interest for 2016, hereinafter referred to as................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He noted that the report tracks the Commission's main activities in establishing a conflict of interest, implementing administrative and criminal provisions, preventing the conflict of interest and the international activity of the Commission. In 2016, the Commission held 81 meetings, with 249 administrative proceedings for conflict of interest being initiated before the Commission. The largest number of proceedings have been initiated by signals from citizens followed by state authorities and legal entities. Since its establishment, the Commission has sequestered itself and has initiated 41 proceedings, and in 2016 following information from the media, decisions have been adopted to initiate 4 proceedings. In order to establish the existence of a conflict of interest at the initiative of public officials, 9 proceedings were initiated in 2016. In 2016, the Commission took a total of 236 decisions, of which 190 to terminate administrative proceedings due to irregularities in the reported alerts and 46 to establish the existence or absence of a conflict of interest. In 2016 there were 12 violations of public office holders and one infringement following a violation of the restriction on employment and employment following an exemption from public office. Mr. Nikolov noted that for the expired year 70 per cent of the proceedings were completed within the regulatory two-week period, with 63 persons addressed to the proceedings. The total number of penal decrees and resolutions issued in 2016 in the proceedings has increased and accounts for 40% of the orders issued since the beginning of the Commission's activities, with a total of 44 penal decrees imposed fines and property penalties of 180 462,89 BGN. More than 9100 are persons who have checked whether they have complied with the time limits for submitting the declarations and 34 criminal decrees have been issued for non-payments within the time limit. As a reason for the low number of violations, he pointed out the implementation of training seminars by the Commission and the activities of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, with which a manual for the order for submission of declarations was drawn up jointly. In order to prevent violations of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest in 2016, the Commission held 13 training seminars explaining the main legal mechanisms for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest, legal prohibitions and the declaration regime. In accordance with the recommendations of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism, the Council of Ministers approves an Action Plan for 2016, which sets out basic measures for the Commission's work, such as: training, verification of the time limits for submitting declarations and compliance with the requirement to keep registers and analysis, as well as a report on the application of the Law. The total number of the Commission for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest is 36 staff members, of which 5 members of the Commission and 31 employees. In 2016 the budget of the Commission is 992 255 BGN under the approved by the State Budget Act 1 300 000 BGN. After the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Council, without abstention and without abstention, supported the submitted Annual Report on the Commission's activities to prevent and establish conflict of interest for 2016, No 720-00-9, submitted by the Commission to prevent and establish conflict of interest on June 1, 2017 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision on it with the following wording: Project! DECISION in relation to the Commission's annual activity report on the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 22a, para. 7 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and Art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the Commission's Annual Activity Report on the prevention and establishment of conflicts of interest for the year 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Fikirliyska. That was the Legal Commission report. With the report of the parliamentary committee Mr. Yachev. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u181	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! I want you to meet "COMMODITY" on an annual report on the Commission's activity on the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest on the first June 2017 At its regular meeting held on 08 June 2017, the Parliamentary Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics examined the Commission's Annual Activity Report on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest for 2016, No 720-00-9, submitted by the Commission on 1 June 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov, acting President, Mrs. Katya Staneva and Mr. Pascal Boyadzhiyski, members of the committee. The 2016 Annual Activity Report of KUPKI was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nikolov. He noted that the Commission report consists of five sections presenting its work on the establishment of conflict of interest, administrative criminal activity, prevention of conflict of interest, implementation of recommendations under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, as well as the Commission's administrative capacity. A comprehensive vision of the Commission's work has also been presented since its establishment. 1748 administrative proceedings have been initiated before KUPKI for the period June 2011. The Commission has adopted 1548 decisions on proceedings for the establishment of conflicts of interest, with a total of 1647 procedures for the establishment of conflicts of interest and pronounced in respect of 2096 persons. In 2016, the Commission held 81 meetings and the administrative proceedings to establish a conflict of interest before the Commission for that period were 249. The largest number of proceedings have been initiated by signals from citizens followed by state authorities and legal entities. The administrative criminal activity under the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest marks a significant increase in the number of proceedings initiated. For the period 2011-2016, the penalties imposed amount to 2 million. Three thousand. BGN 316. 598 proceedings were completed, of which 42% in 2016. According to the procedure provided for in the Law, the time limits for submitting declarations under Art. 12 of the Law are checked for the period of the period of time for the submission of declarations under Art. 15 000 persons holding public positions, including. 9 064 in 2016 In 2016 the Council adopted Decision KUPKI has carried out a verification of the declarations under Art. 12 of all newly elected 8702 municipal councillors and mayors for mandate 2015 - 2019 year. Regular checks shall be carried out for compliance with the obligation under art. 18, para. 1 of the AWDs for keeping records of the declarations under art. 12 of the Law. In order to prevent violations of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest in 2016, the Commission held 13 training seminars explaining the main mechanisms for preventing and establishing conflicts of interest, legal bans and the declaration regime. Under the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism, the Commission has implemented all four measures set out in the 2016 Action Plan approved by the Council of Ministers, in full and within time. In particular these are: conducting trainings, checking the time limits for submitting declarations and compliance with the requirement to keep records, as well as an analysis and report on the application of the law. The total number of the Commission for the prevention and detection of conflicts of interest is 36 staff members, of which 5 members of the Commission and 31 employees. In 2016, the Commission's budget was 992 thousand. 255 BGN, when approved by the State Budget Act 1 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. In the discussion of the report took part the MPs Boris Yachev and Milko Nedyalkov. Questions were raised regarding the need for legislative change in the direction of improving the legal framework for more effective operation of the system for prevention and finding conflict of interest, possible reduction of the minimum amount of the sanction for failure to comply with the obligations under art. 12, as well as the possibility of imposing sanctions under the law of the authorities not publishing the declarations of the debtors. Following the vote, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, with 9 votes for
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-15.u182	Thank you, colleague Yachev. Are there any Members of Parliament who wish to speak on the opinions heard and on the report? I do not see any requests from the House, there is no written down for speech by Members of the National Assembly. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs, we have a vote coming up. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we vote: ? RESPONSIBILITY? in relation to the Commission's Annual Activity Report on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interest for 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 17 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to art. 22a, para. 7 of the Law on the Prevention and Establishment of Conflict of Interests and Art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the Commission's Annual Activity Report to prevent and establish a conflict of interest for 2016. The decision was adopted by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 15 June 2017 and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly. Please vote on the Decision adopting the report. They voted 124 MPs: 106, against 1, abstention 17. The proposal for the text of the Decision and the Decision itself have been adopted. Thank you. Dear Members of Parliament, we have exhausted the agenda for today. I introduce you to the questions of parliamentary control, which will take place tomorrow, according to the decision taken today, at 9:00 p.m. I remind you. 9:00 p.m. We'll listen: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev, who will answer a question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; The Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer four questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov, Valentina Naydenova, Milko Nedyalkov and Ivo Hristov, two questions, as well as one question from the MPs Tasko Ermenkov and Ivan Genov; The Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will answer two questions from the MPs Krasimir Jankov, Daniel Yordanov and Miglena Alexandrova; The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Nina Mitkova, two questions; Irena Anastasova and Petar Vitanov; and one question from the MP Manol Genov; The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer four questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Georgi Svilenski and Stoyan Mirchev, Krasimir Yankov, two questions, Miglena Alexandrova and one question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; The Minister of Culture Boyl Banov will answer one question from the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev; The Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer one question from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer nine questions from the MPs Manol Genov, Stanislav Vladimirov, Valentin Milushev, Stanislav Ivanov, Ivan Mihovski, Dragomir Stoinev, Nikola Dinkov, Nadia Zhekova and Yordan Mladenov, two questions; Stoyan Mirchev, Anton Kutev and Stoyan Mirchev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov asked the MP Cornelia Ninova a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov; The Minister of the Interior Valentin Radev asked three questions from the MPs Boryana Georgieva, Nikolay Tsonkov and Veselin Mareshki, and one question from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; The Minister of Culture Boyl Banov answered a question with a written answer from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to two questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Manol Genov; The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov addressed five questions from the MPs Veselin Mareshki, Svetla Bachvarova, Krastina Taskova, two questions; and Georgi Stoilov and Svetla Bachvarova; "The Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov" to a question from the National Representative Gergana Stefanova and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev asked one question from the MPs Donka Simeonova, Irena Anastasova and Veska Nencheva and two questions with written answer from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Irena Anastasova; "The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov" to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; The Minister for the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 Lilyana Pavlova to two questions from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and one question with a written answer from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev. Due to a planned visit to the Military Command of the Republic of Bulgaria, the city of Varna and a meeting with the staff in the parliamentary control meeting will not take part Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to two questions are postponed from the MP Iskren Veselinov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov. Due to a preliminary foreign policy commitment related to a working meeting with the participation of all diplomatic representatives of foreign missions in the Republic of Bulgaria, the meeting for parliamentary control will not be attended by the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva. In the absence of the country, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov and the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. With this, we have exhausted the agenda for today's meeting. The next meeting is tomorrow, 16 June 2017, Friday at 9:00. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
