ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please take your seats, registration procedure pending. Note that it will be carried out with biometric data, as well as all votes from now on. There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members, allow me to present a draft Programme for the National Assembly's Work for the period 26 April 2017: 1. Abort the authority of a Member of the National Assembly. He resigned from the National Representative Kamen Kostadinov on 21 April 2017. 2. Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Importer is the Temporary Commission for Draft Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly of 25 April 2017. 3. Parliamentary control by Members 91 to 103, including by the Rules of Organisation and Procedure of the National Assembly. Please vote. 200 MPs voted: 193, against 1, abstention 6. The program project has been adopted. There are proposals for inclusion on the agenda under art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The first proposal is from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. On the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that on behalf of the Parliamentary Group "BSP for Bulgaria" be included as a point in the forthcoming weekly Programme of the National Assembly for the period 26 April 2017. "Project of a Decision to set up a Temporary Commission to investigate the cases of unpaid salaries, i.e. No 754-02-6 of 19 April 2017 Colleagues, you have the floor. People's representative Dragomir Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u2	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We offer to your attention the establishment of a Temporary Commission to investigate the cases of unpaid salaries. Unfortunately, this is a rather negative phenomenon that continues to exist in our country. I leave aside that from yesterday's data of the National Statistical Institute, approximately 35% or more than two and a half million Bulgarian citizens live in permanent material deprivation, while at the same time there is a phenomenon in which people work in good faith, fulfill their commitments and have unscrupulous employers who not only delay wages and also do not pay their employees. In recent months and a year, I'd say it's quite common. You know very well what happened in Dupnitsa, in Ruse, in Smolyan, in Vidin, in Dobrich, which clearly shows that there is a systemic problem. We from the BSP for Bulgaria are hopefully all political forces, as this is a problem that affects absolutely all Bulgarian citizens, we represent here all Bulgarian citizens, to unite and to establish this Temporary Commission, where to find a meeting both trade unions and employers and individual political forces. Here at the National Assembly to examine every single problem, to find the right solutions. This can only happen here in the National Assembly, as we also come from legislative initiatives. Since employers now have the desire to participate in such a dialogue, let us unite, create this Commission and once and for all the Members of the National Assembly say: "End of this vicious practice, this negative phenomenon cannot exist in Bulgaria anymore, and indeed people can get what they expect from us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Before going to the vote, let me introduce you to the Conference of Presidents that all the parliamentary groups supported both the establishment of this and the establishment of the next temporary parliamentary committee. There were only differences whether to be now or after the government was formed. From here on out, each group decides how to vote. We are voting, honourable Members. Vote 218 MPs: for 218 against and abstention there is no. The motion is unanimous.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u4	The composition of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u5	We haven't included it yet as which item to be on the agenda, let's get there and there will be a composition, and... The next proposal for inclusion on the basis of art. 50, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly on the agenda is the proposal of the National Representative Elena Yoncheva, which proposes on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria to be included as a point in the upcoming weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 26. Project of a decision for the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of Bulgarian citizens, inc. No 754-02-8 of 21 April 2017 You have the floor, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u6	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose a Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to identify potentially dangerous specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of Bulgarian citizens. Why is one of the institutions responsible for drinking water doing research, establishing the presence of radioactive pollution of water in a city, and the other institutions are starting to take measures months later? The example in Haskovo, all institutions knew about radioactive water and were silent. I will remind you of just one fact about water in Haskovo. The report of the Ministry of Environment and Water, which showed increased values only of alpha activity 13 times the norm, was published on the Ministry's website on 15 January 2017, and the Ministry of Health took measures only after 4 April of that year. What do you get, honourable Members? There is no interaction between institutions, responsibility is transferred. Today we've determined that radioactive water was also drunk in Haskovo. What are the next Bulgarian cities? This Temporary Commission must understand why there is no interaction between the responsible institutions, why citizens have not been protected, and what should be done, what are the consequences for people's health? Check, identify all cases and suspected radioactive contamination of drinking water.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. You're running out of time.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u9	We are voting, honourable Members. Vote 212 MPs: 206, none, abstention 6. The proposal for inclusion on the agenda has been accepted. Messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 20 April 2017 to 25 April 2017: On 24 April 2017, a draft law supplementing the Social Security Code was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. There's a distribution coming up. On the same date, a draft decision was received to adopt the Annual Activity Report of the State Intelligence Agency for 2016. The Council of Ministers is the importer. There's a distribution coming up. This forthcoming distribution applies absolutely to all bills. On the same date, 20 April 2017, a draft decision was received to suspend the recalculation of the basic monthly remuneration of the Members of the National Assembly. Importer Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs. On 21 April 2017, a draft decision on the establishment of a Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens was received. Importer is the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. On 24 April 2017 there is a draft decision to adopt the Annual Report on the activity of the Office of Military Information. The Council of Ministers is the importer. On the same date the Draft Decision for adoption of the Defence and Armed Forces Report of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016 was received. On 24 April 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 24 April 2017 to 25 April 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 April 2017 to 25 April 2017 (OJ L 55, 19.2.2017, p. 1). The Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is the Chairman On 24 April 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 24 April 2017 to 25 April 2017 appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 April 2017 to 25 April 2017 (OJ L 55, 19.2.2017, p. 1). The report on the activity of the Energy and Water On 25 April 2017, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 25 April 2017 to 25 April 2017 appointing the members and Danail Kirilov is the importer of the President of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. Dear Members of Parliament, from today's vote in plenary will be carried out with biometric data, which I have already told you. An application was made with entry No 754-00-9 of 25 April 2017 by Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev, Member of the National Assembly at the Forty-fourth National Assembly. With the application, the people's representative gives his consent to arousal prosecution in connection with a request of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov, registered at the National Assembly under No 627-00-5 of 24 October 2016. By letter the President of the National Assembly has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consent given by the National Assembly by applying a certified copy of the application. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria Deputy Minister for Internal Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order it has authorised the dispatch of soldiers and transport helicopters from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in joint rotation preparation in Germany. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. Following the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, the notification will be made available to the relevant portfolio committee, according to the established parliamentary practice. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers has adopted Decision No 224 of 24 April 2017 supplementing Decision No 970 of 14 November 2016 authorising the dispatch and use of troops from the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in NATO operations in Kosovo. The President of the Republic of Bulgaria has also been informed in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, the notification will be made available to the relevant portfolio committee, according to the established practice of Parliament. On 21 April 2017 and 24 April 2017, a Report on the implementation of the plan for preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 was received in the National Assembly on the preparation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union on 13 April 2017, adopted by Decision No 211 of the Council of Ministers of 2017. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was submitted to the chairmen and co-chairs of the parliamentary groups. Following the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, the report will be submitted to the parliamentary committees, according to established parliamentary practice. The material is available to the MPs and the Library of the National Assembly. On 21 April 2017, the National Assembly received a letter from the President of the Committee on Legal and Institutional Affairs to the Supreme Judicial Council, Ms Juliana Koleva, concerning the forthcoming procedure for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council in 2017, together with the documents described and attached to it. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the material was provided to the chairmen and co-chairs of the parliamentary groups. After the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, the material will be provided to the relevant portfolio committee, according to the established parliamentary practice. On 25 April 2017, the Constitutional Court received a copy of the request of a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court to establish the unconstitutionality of the provision of art. 40, para. 1, t. 2 of the Health Insurance Act in its part, which refers to the working pensioners registered as free workers and/or artisan activities by forwarding to art. 4, para. 3, p. 1 of the Social Security Code, as well as a copy of the order of the court of 25 April 2017 in constitutional case No 2 of 2017. After the election of permanent committees of the National Assembly, copies of the request and the order will be allocated to the respective portfolio committee. Moving on to item one of today's agenda: TERMINATION OF A PEOPLE'S REPRESENTATIVE. An application has been made by Kamen Kostov Gospodinov, EGN (...), MP from the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hereby declare that I am to be terminated in advance as a Member of the National Assembly elected as Member of the National Assembly on the list of parties. 72, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the request to terminate the mandate of a Member of the National Assembly. Vote 212 MPs: for 211, against none, abstention 1. The motion for termination has been accepted. We move on to item two of the agenda: PROJECT OF RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the attitude to the Rules of Procedure, it can be concluded about the future role of the Forty-fourth National Assembly in the government of the state. Will it remain only one rubber stamp once again, or will it be political, as it is under the Constitution, as it should be in a parliamentary republic. That is why I propose a direct broadcast of the debates and the vote on this. 2 on the agenda to be broadcast directly on BNT, perhaps for the last time as well as on BNR.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u11	A reverse opinion? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal made by the MP Philip Popov. Vote 217 MPs: 109, against 29, abstention 79. The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u12	What re-voting?! It's accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u13	Apparently, someone didn't get a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u14	Some MPs failed [[blowing noise and lines from DPS]] from our group to vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u15	Who?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u16	Colleagues, please order in the court! You know very well that when someone hasn't been able to vote... Why do you react like that?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u17	Colleagues, these are the Rules of Procedure, these are the operating rules for our work. Think and consider whether it is necessary to make parliamentary circuses for our rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u18	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Please re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u19	If you think you're a circus man...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u20	We vote. They voted 216 MPs: for 101, against 52, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I present to you a report on the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Name: "Manufacturer for the organization and activities of the National Assembly." The Commission supports the text of the draft Rules of Procedure. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter One. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 1. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u22	Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote the name of the Rules of Procedure, Chapter 1, the text of the draft Rules 1 and 2. They are all supported by the Commission. They voted 209 MPs: for 209, against and abstention there is no. The terms of the Rules of Procedure, the name of Chapter 1 and Articles 1 and 2 of the Rules of Procedure are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u23	"Chapter 2" Constitution of the National Assembly and changes in the management. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Two. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 3. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to speak with regard to art. 3 to make an editorial amendment in relation to para. 2 where the reference is made by the Members of the National Assembly. 79, para. 2 of the Constitution's oath is taken into account and after the numbering this is art. 76, para. 2 of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u24	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the editorial proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov under para. 2 of art. 3. Please vote. Vote 209 MPs: for 208, against none, abstention 1. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two, as well as art. 3 by importer with the newly accepted proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. They are all supported by the Commission. They voted 203 MPs: for 203, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter Two, as well as art. 3 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u25	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 4. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u26	Statements? I won't. Vote art. Art. 4 and art. 5 by importer supported by the Commission. They voted 210 MPs: 210, no opposition and no abstentions. Articles 4 and 5 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u27	Under art. 6 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs in art. 6, the figure..8. to be replaced by.5........................................................................................................................................................ The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Krasimir Yankov according to the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. The National Assembly shall elect from the members of the National Assembly Secretaries on a proposal from the Parliamentary Groups. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u28	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u29	We're pulling him out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u30	Thank you. I shall put to the vote Articles 6 and 7 on the Commission report. Vote 208 MPs: for 208, against and abstention there is no. Articles 6 and 7 of the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u31	Head of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Three. Article 8 "A proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs: in art. 8, para. 7 words can be created. The words can be replaced by the words are created. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) The President of the National Assembly in the exercise of the powers under art. 77, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 78, p. 1 of the Constitution: 1. communicate and distribute the bills and other proposals submitted to the National Assembly between its committees according to their subject; 2. certify the content of the acts adopted by the National Assembly; 3. provide the necessary conditions for the activities of the committees of the National Assembly and the Members of the National Assembly; 4. lay down the rules on the internal order in the buildings of the National Assembly and the use of the material base after consultation with the Conference of Presidents; 5. organise the establishment, implementation and reporting of the budget of the National Assembly; 6. certify by its signature the stenographic protocols of the National Assembly meetings; 7. exercise control over the issuance of the State Gazette, as well as other powers under the State Gazette Act; 8. determine the seats in the Chamber for the Members of Parliament, divided by parliamentary groups, for the members of the Council of Ministers, the President and the Vice-President of the Republic, in consultation with the Conference of Presidents; 9. after a vote may require information from the Secretaries of the National Assembly about the vote on foreign cards in voting outside the cases under art. 66, para. 3; 10. ensure and monitor compliance with these Rules; 11. approve the classification of the positions in the National Assembly and the state of the services thereto; 12. appoint and dismiss the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, the officials to the President's office, as well as the staff to the chambers of the Vice-Presidents and the parliamentary groups on their proposal; 13. establish rules for the work of the administration of the National Assembly; 14. control the internal and external security of the National Assembly, which is placed under his authority; 15. appoint and release the Quaestors of the National Assembly; 16. performs other functions assigned to him by the Constitution, the laws and these Rules. (2) The Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly shall assist the President and carry out the activities assigned by him. (3) The President of the National Assembly shall, in consultation with the Conference of Presidents, appoint by written order the Vice-Presidents who shall take part in the management of the National Assembly meetings for the relevant week. The seats of the Presidium shall be taken by the Vice-Presidents appointed by the order. (4) When the President of the National Assembly decides to entrust the Vice-Presidents with continuous implementation of activities under para. 1, it shall issue a written order to distribute these activities to each other. (5) In the absence of the President of the National Assembly, the Vice-President shall instruct one of the Vice-Presidents to replace him and, where this has not been done, he shall be replaced by the Vice-President, broadcast by the largest parliamentary party or coalition registered in the Central Election Commission for self-participation in the last elections for MPs. (6) In the event of the Chair's participation in the deliberations on a matter, the meeting shall be chaired by a Vice-President appointed by him. In this case, the President may not lead the meeting before the vote or the conclusion of the discussion on this matter. (7) The President of the National Assembly may set up an Advisory Council on Law. The organisation, activity and composition of the Council shall be governed by rules established by the President of the National Assembly. Representatives of non-profit legal entities registered for public use may take part in the meetings of the Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u32	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we have proposed in para. Article 7 8 The President of the National Assembly may also be entitled to establish such an Advisory Council on Law. We believe that there is an acute need for this Council to be established. You all have a lot of you, experience from the previous Legislature, from the previous National Assembly, when in a number of bills there was a case studies and there was no good effective legislation. We need expertise, speed and quality of legislation. Because, indeed, we live in a dynamic environment. Moreover, you know that the law always regulates already established public relations. In this sense he is one step back in these relations, he is always lag behind. That is why we believe that such a Council would be of great benefit in the work and activities of this National Assembly, of the forty-four, even more so, that within this National Assembly, of this Legislation, I think there are about 27 or 29 lawyers of all 240 MPs. And this will lead to a lack of expertise, speed and quality in legislation, we believe. I therefore also propose the establishment, the deliberate and compulsory establishment of such an Advisory Council on Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Do you have a line, sir? Come in for a cue, the people's representative Danail Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the day yesterday we discussed this proposal of BSP colleagues. I appeal to my colleagues for the following: let the subject remain open. Indeed, perhaps in this Forty-fourth National Assembly, we will need to discuss in greater depth the need for the establishment, the formation of a Law Council. But let's not make it imperative, let's not necessarily do it, let's not put ourselves in some frames. After the debate in the Temporary Commission, I have done a check, in all the meetings so far for these 27 years there have been only three times such Council on Law and for each of these councils some label can be said. It is very important that, if we decide, and here, we should agree with both the government and the opposition, to make one such decision, to set exactly the parameters of what we want, not an ordinary board of trustees, not some public council. It will most likely be necessary in this format to have the active representation of the legal doctrine, but not chosen by mechanical criteria, but selected according to our need to obtain this expertise. I would remind you that in the past, the Assembly did not have a legislative council. The Legal Commission was trying to replace this with working groups, and working groups are a format that could help. But let us not oblige, let us not frame, and let us within this framework, because you see the norm that this framework also obliges the President of the Assembly to approve the rules, to give the form. I think the President will agree that this should be our joint business. Let's leave the opportunity so open, I think it's a better option and keep thinking about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Do you have a statement or a line? Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Popov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, so much of the bills adopted by the previous legislation are hung on the wall of disgrace by Mr. Valchev and are an example of the lawyers by law how they should not be legalized. With regard to the need to set up such Advisory Council, you have stated that you want to make radical changes to the electoral legislation that you want to continue reforming the judiciary. This will most likely remain only applications, given that you do not want to interfere with the expertise in the changes that were so loudly announced earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u38	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. So I don't waste time going downstairs because you're talking about the chairman, like he's not here, to say that we're going to make such a council. Together with all the parliamentary groups, we will specify the form. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u39	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We really appreciate and respect both what Mr. Kirilov said and your commitment, Mr. Chairman. Such a Council is necessary. Yes, three people's meetings have had such a council. The stenographic logs of these advices are worth reviewing. It is seen that in a different way one bill is being dealt with, passed through this Council, and in a completely different way, when, unfortunately, it goes to the politicized Legal Commission. You know, ladies and gentlemen, there often political prevails over some very substantial proposals, as is ours. Ladies and gentlemen, what we have proposed is not a major change. Let's just say it has to be there! Naturally, we will show our full understanding of how to construct, of the time it takes. However, if we stay to think about it, it will hang, as it did in the previous and previous National Assembly. May I remind you that such a debate took place at both forty-three and forty-second National Assemblys. Every chairman, no matter which political force, has made such a commitment, but he has remained unfulfilled. Let us give such a clear sign. Let us not forget that the Advisory Council on Law plays a role both for the opposition and for the government and for the quality of legislation. It is also a first membrane, and it is very important and difficult to overcome, against lobbying texts, against texts that have other meanings of testimony in motives. It is difficult to overcome such a membrane when the chosen people in this Council are authoritative lawyers, great professors, prominent practitioners when they have public accessibility and strength. This is important. I am using this case to say that we are also working in our parliamentary group and we will soon establish such advice from various experts to consult both our and your proposals. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Let's not get stuck, let's assume that if we agree, we can make an opportunity for an obligation. She'll be useful to all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u40	Thank you. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't want to prolong the debate. It's obvious we're thinking in the same direction. However, the orator provoked me to give the following examples to take into account the stenograms. One of the Advisory Councils has met and discussed primarily whether it is constitutionally compliant with the bill and how the MPs have no right to submit such a bill. You understand that if it comes to such a debate, each of you will say that this is a filter that limits the legislative initiative of the MPs. Again, from shorthand protocols, we can see and see how well-known representatives of science and legal knowledge are no worse lobbyists than some of my lawyers and that lobbying is still in the Law Council in those legislative advices. This is what I meant by the need to reach consensus and know what we are looking for in this format. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u42	Thank you. You have the floor for a line, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Zarkov! The problem is not whether it will be mandatory to construct such an Advisory Council, or whether it will be in the legal capacity that exists in the Rules in force. The problem is how it will be constructed, what will be the Rules for the organization of his work. From this point of view, I would like to thank the President of the National Assembly for agreeing to have such a Council. It is the question of what activity and how the proposals and opinions of this Advisory Council will reach the Members of the National Assembly. The practice in recent years has shown that very often meaningful and very meaningful proposals and opinions of the Advisory Council do not find any place in legislation for various reasons: because the committee responsible rejects them because they later reach the permanent committees. The idea of having such an Advisory Council is in the right direction. The question is, together with the leadership of the National Assembly, that we all consider how to optimize the activities of this Advisory Council. It makes sense to have such a Council, it is important to optimize its activities in terms of its opinions and proposals to find a place in the final texts at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Ademov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u45	Dear replicating, dear Mr. Ademov! That's exactly the point. It's not going to come to this conversation. Practice shows that it does not come to such a conversation when the issue is left optionally. If today we are voting for... and we do this absolutely, we are opening up the conversation you are talking about. We're ready for him. As for Mr. Kirilov's line, yes, of course, there will always be doubt. However, if we do so, we will not be able to make any advice, no public assembly, no discussion, there will always be doubt! The Council is therefore placed under the authority of the President of the National Assembly and we believe that he will be able to handle it. We are ready to help, including suggestions. Once again, this Council gives only advice. We should be able to read them. That's what we want.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am also taking this opportunity in connection with the debate to propose an editorial amendment. Since the adoption or rejection of this proposal will show whether the parliamentary groups are ready to interact with each other in the future legislative activity, whether there are simple statements such as demagogy to the Bulgarian voter, or whether we will actually turn Parliament into a working body in which there will be constructive, correct solutions in relation to the opportunities that our joint work gives us. My specific proposal is to replace it in para. 7 the words "the President" with the President's Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u48	Advice.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u49	The Presidential Chamber. I am referring to: the administration, activity and composition of the Council are governed by rules established by the Presidential Chamber of the National Assembly and in order for each of the parliamentary groups to be able to broadcast the Vice-President of the National Assembly, this Presidential Chamber of Presidents and Vice-Presidents, to find consensus on the application of each of the Members of the National Assembly regarding the future activities and the work of this Council to the President of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u50	Is there such a figure, Mr. Kirilov, in the Chamber of Presidents? That's a term? I haven't heard such a legal figure exist in the Rules, but if you want to record it now.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u51	In the form of a line, I'll try to get an opinion. One option is to be the Presidential Council, but Mr. Iankov described the leadership of the National Assembly. If we are describing the leadership of the National Assembly, we must say either the National Assembly's management and the Vice-Presidents and Vice-Presidents. So we have to choose one of these three options.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u52	Choose one of the options for editorial change. There is no such term in the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u53	In order to be correct in the text, let the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly be added after the Vice-Presidents.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u54	Okay. It's about the rules, isn't it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u55	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u56	Sentence two.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u57	Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs, which is not accepted by the Commission. Please vote. We are voting on the unaccepted proposal by the Commission in art. 8, para. 7 the word can be created by replacing it with the "create" which reveals mistrust of the President. [[Radio.]] They voted 214 MPs: 91, against 81, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial supplement made by the MP Krasimir Yankov in para. Article 7 8 in the second sentence after the word "the Vice-Presidents" to add. Please vote. They voted 211 MPs: 166, against 30, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. And now we are voting on the name of Chapter Three, as proposed and adopted by the Commission, and art. 8, along with the newly accepted editorial supplement. Please vote. They voted 210 MPs: 160, against none, abstention 50. The name of Chapter 3 and art. 8 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u58	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 9. Under art. 10 has a proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 10. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 11. Proposal by the MPs Danail Kirilov and Snezhana Dukova under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes to establish art. 12: Art. 12. The Parliamentary stenographers of the National Assembly shall draw up the stenographic protocols: 1. of the plenary meetings of the National Assembly, of the Conference of Presidents, of the press conferences and meetings of the President; 2. at the order of the President of the National Assembly and at meetings organised by Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the Secretary-General and the International Initiatives of Parliament; 3. from the meetings of committees dealing with classified information; 4. of the Permanent Committees of the National Assembly in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, including the meetings held and the temporary committees held.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u59	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote Articles 9, 10 and 11 on the Commission report, as well as Article 11. 12 with the corresponding text also on the Commission report. Article 12 is newly proposed with a corresponding text on the report. We are voting on Articles 9 to 12, including the Commission report. Vote 192 MPs: 183, none, abstention 9. Articles 9 to 12 of the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u60	'Chapter 4'Parliamentary Groups'. The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 12, which becomes Art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 14. Under art. 14 has a proposal from the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 14, which becomes art. 15: Art. 15. (1) Every Member of the National Assembly may be a member of only one Parliamentary Group. (2) The conditions for the occurrence, membership and termination of membership, rights and obligations of Members shall be determined by the parliamentary group itself in accordance with the provisions of those Rules. (3) The Members of the National Assembly may leave the Parliamentary Group by submitting a written application to the Head of the Group and to the President of the National Assembly, which shall be communicated in plenary. (4) Upon leaving a parliamentary group or exclusion from its composition, the national representative shall lose his place in the Standing Committees as a representative of the relevant parliamentary group, in the delegations of the National Assembly and other elected positions in the National Assembly. (5) A Member of the National Assembly who has left or been expelled from a parliamentary group shall become a non-member of a parliamentary group and shall not be eligible for membership and may not be accepted as a member of another parliamentary group. (6) In the work of the parliamentary groups may participate with the right to an advisory vote and members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria from the relevant political family group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u61	Article 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u62	The Commission supports the text of the draft for art. 15 which becomes Art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u63	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the name of Chapter 4 and Articles 13 to 16 including the Commission report. Vote 192 MPs: for 192, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter 4 and Articles 13 to 16 including the Commission report have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u64	"Head of the 5th Committees of the National Assembly." The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Five. Article 16. Proposal by the National Representative Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov under the order of art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the draft and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The National Assembly shall elect permanent and temporary committees from its composition. (2) The Standing Committees of the National Assembly shall be: 1. Budget and Finance Committee; 2. Committee on Legal Affairs; 3. Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; 4. Energy Committee; 5. Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government; 6. Committee on Foreign Policy; 7. Defence Committee; 8. Internal Security and Public Order Committee; 9. Committee on Agriculture and Food; 10. Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy; 11. Committee on Education and Science; 12. Committee on Children, Youth and Sports; 13. Committee on Health; 14. Committee on the Environment and Water; 15. Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; 16. Committee on Culture and Media; 17. Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints; 18. Committee on Religions and Human Rights; 19. Commission for the Fight against Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics; 20. Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds; 21. Commission for Control of Security Services, Implementation and Use of Special Intelligence Means and Access to Data under the Electronic Communications Act; 22. Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission; 23. Committee on Policies for Bulgarians Abroad; 24. Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies, Grey Sector and Smuggling. (3) The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds shall report to the National Assembly on the implementation of the obligation of the Council of Ministers for prior information in its participation in the development and adoption of acts of the European Union. The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds shall also draw up reports on other acts of the institutions of the European Union. (4) The National Assembly may make changes in the type, number and composition of the Standing Committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u65	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! All participants in the meeting of the Temporary Committee witnessed the debate on the proposal of the "United Patriarchs" of Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. I am surprised to see in the Commission's report that I am the one who proposed the name of the Commission for monitoring the revenue agencies, the grey sector and smuggling. The proposal, honourable Members, came from the representative of the importers in the face of Mr. Emil Dimitrov. It is in connection with the arguments put forward by me that the so- proposed name of a permanent committee "Commission on Tax Policy, Legislation and Combating the Grey Sector and Smuggling" reconciles the activities of permanent committees with practice in the National Assembly, namely the Budget Commission, the Legal Commission and, to a large extent, the two committees........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... I understand the desire of the new coalition partner of the Political Party GERB for organized pressure and through the legislative body to exercise control over the activities of government sectors directly monitored by the future prime minister, so far directly monitored by Boyko Borisov, or by the most trusted and close people in the cabinet so far in the future. My fellow Members, I draw your attention to the fact that only by monitoring the implementation of tax policy, revenue agencies, the grey sector and smuggling by a parliamentary committee will not happen. The effective fight, the work on reducing the gray sector, preventing and countering smuggling is done by the executive. I call on you to reconsider your proposal and in the development of negotiations for the future government to have effective levers, since you recognise that there has been a grey sector and smuggling so far and there have been gaps in revenue agencies.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u67	Mr. Iankov, it's been this gray sector since your time, but we're fighting now!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u68	To take measures because we, as a legislative body, are expected to broadcast an executive power that will meet people's expectations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u69	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Just so we're clear: Mr. Yankov, you're not the importer of this proposal, are you?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u70	Emil Dimitrov should look at the stenogram.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u71	- What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am extremely surprised, as a member of the Temporary Committee, which a priori examined all the permanent committees that have existed in the National Assembly until now. The consensus was clear and clear until this proposal was received for this 24th committee. Colleagues, the balance of votes inside the Temporary Commission was 10 to 9 in favour of having such a committee. Colleagues from the Political Party GERB, from our group abstained. Today and now, my extraordinary surprise is actually why surprise, this is proof that once again BSP uses the stands for populist actions, for formal speeches, for lie and demagogy [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] because they supported the establishment of this committee, and today they come up with arguments that our Political Party presented at the meeting of the Temporary Commission. [[Applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, I'm thinking today, not that you're used to this, not that Buzludja's dishes don't tell us that for so many years you haven't done anything...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u73	Please don't deviate from the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u74	...and you have to get on it, because she's gonna come back to fix the country too. [[noise and lines]] Today your hypocrisy has exceeded even my idea of what you can do. Be correct, be absolutely precise and clear in your arguments you present! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u75	Your time is up, Mrs. Dukova. Thank you. Another line? Here you go. [[Relations from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov.]] Let's finish the procedure! I understand you, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u76	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the House. Dear Mr. Iankov, I am sorry that you felt affected by the identification of the amendment in the name with your proposal, because you did not propose the Commission in question, but in the dispute over the name, in three proposals regarding the clarification of this name, yours with regard to the control of the revenue agencies clearly weighs. Therefore, colleagues have identified this proposal of yours and have referred to it as a proposal under art. 80. Otherwise, to be correct, I will say this to make you feel at ease with regard to authorship. The first correction came from Mr. Dimitrov. [[Laughter]] The next correction was on me...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u77	Please, no guerrilla names, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u78	...and the third one was from you. If Mr. Dimitrov objects, I think he's identified with...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u79	With what?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u80	...with that name, which is his alias and under which he also published several books. Did he publish three books? [[Noise and lines.]] However, I would like to make an application in the context and in the previous line that I will request an explicit statement to make a proposal on the norm.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u81	Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Yankov, for the back. Then a personal explanation of Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After the lines were made, I suppose you all became clear, and the debate and the way in which it came to the respective name and proposal, the National Assembly to have the 24th Standing Committee. I took the opportunity in my speech to call for the very name to be refined. Otherwise, what is he aiming at with such a permanent committee is clear to all! I do not feel affected in connection with authorship, but I call you to the debate on the Rules of Procedure on which the National Assembly will work, to be serious, reasoned and without attacking in relation to the texts themselves and the desire of all of us to express the will of those who have sent us to this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Here you go. People's representative Tasco Ermenkov
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, Mr President, to point out to you that you are called upon to observe the order of this House, to control the speeches of the Members of the National Assembly, not to restrict them, but to try to bring them into the subject we are discussing, not to make free writings on topics that have now come to us from within. In this way, following these rules, be so kind as to protect the authority of the National Assembly. But you, because you are broadcast by GERB party, it is good to keep the authority of GERB party because such statements show your true face to people who do not tolerate other people's opinions, people who...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u85	Mine or GERB?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u86	No, no, I'm replicating you, not someone else. People who are accustomed to talking about humility and compromises, and are practically teething off the stands. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u87	A statement? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u88	Good afternoon! At the will of the Bulgarian voters of the Conference of Presidents, representatives of all parliamentary parties were present and there, with full consensus, as I recall, the decision was made not to make a divorce, crushing and so on, in order for some of our sympathizers to be given the opportunity to become chairman of some committee. So we will stick to this consensus and will not support the establishment of a new committee. Otherwise, from the point of view of the smuggling, where I think Mr. Dimitrov is very aware of how things work, in each of the specialized committees we will support every proposal, regardless of which parliamentary group he is from, and we will also be the initiators of those who will limit and, in practice, seek to eliminate at all these handicaps such as smuggling, corruption and so on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u89	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? Mr. Yankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have already seen how, within one night, the political party will have a different opinion. Yesterday at the meeting, the representative supported such a committee and it was in connection with the manifesting of the active fight against smuggling throughout the campaign. After the Golden Finger, the balance in this Parliament, will not support this committee, honourable colleagues from GERB, you achieve your goal in the proposal for parliamentary committees in this Parliament. This time your little coalition partner doesn't twist your hands, but you have yet to expect from the future...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u91	The line is for Mr. Mareshki, not GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u92	Yes, I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u93	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u94	You are yet to expect a curve of arms not only from the United patriots, but also from the Political Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u95	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Second line to MP Veselin Mareshki? [[Replications between MP Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova and Chairman Dimitar Glauchev, away from microphones]] . Let me just remind you that the line is an expression of disagreement with the speaker. You must disagree with Mr. Mareshki. Here you go. Or do you want a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u96	I want a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u97	Okay. Then when the lines are over, you will speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u98	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u99	Any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u100	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I have a question, but I don't see Mr. Mareshki. I hope he'll answer me when the vote comes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u101	He's sitting in his group as per the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u102	The question is: will he declare a conflict of interest when we vote on these committees? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u103	Are there any other lines? Mr. Mareshki, if you'd like to have your coat, please, so you can answer the questions you've been asked!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u104	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My concern continues to rise when it is the creators, founders and supporters of smuggling in Bulgaria who are trying to create a commission to prevent it. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] In this regard, I say again, in all committees and in the executive power, where necessary, you will have full support, as so far, in the fight against all negatives, and one of them is in the smuggling of anything. As far as the declaration is concerned, I'm declaring it publicly, and I'm going to ask you to do it yourself...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u105	All Members of the National Assembly shall have such an obligation.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u106	I declare publicly that no member of our parliamentary group has been involved, has been involved and will not be involved in smuggling, heavy lobbying to help smugglers and the use of smugglers' cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u107	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Personal explanation, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u108	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! [[Noise and lines.]] What Mr. Iankov just exposed to my voice in the Temporary Committee...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u109	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u110	...is definitely false, and I demand a personal explanation of the false information that has been exposed. Thank you. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u111	Thank you, dear Mrs. Christova. For procedure the word has the popular representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u112	Dear Mr. Glauchev! Dear colleagues, and above all, Mr. Glauchev, personal and roll call must be the mention in order to have a personal explanation. And if that's how we're doing it, then we'll be back at the beginning of the forty-third National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u113	Personal or roll call? [[Noise and lines.]] Personal and roll call.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u114	It wasn't personally mentioned, it wasn't by name. [[Laughter and excitement.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u115	She felt affected. [[Noise and lines.]] Here's your speech, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The debate we believe therefore requires that several proposals be made, including in the way of the vote. I'm making an offer to drop the item. 22 "Commission for the Monitoring of the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The arguments are in the following direction, some of them were presented to your attention. Indeed, the Presidential Council agreed that the number of committees should remain the same for 23 committees to remain, and in this format it is assumed that each of the five parliamentary groups could carry out, secure their presence in all committees. The creation of the 24th Commission would make it difficult, would increase the necessary number of MPs to participate and would make it difficult for the parliamentary groups. I recall the debate on the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. We have repeatedly commented on whether this should be a separate committee or a subcommittee. I am making the proposal to drop this committee as a stand-alone committee and to be the subcommittee of the Energy Committee. If this decision is adopted, we will also have to make another editorial proposal in art. 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u117	Yeah, that's assuming the offer's accepted to drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u118	Since we have a hypothesis of convention, I also propose a separate vote. That is to say, first to vote, and separately to the committee under heading 24 under the working name of the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies in the Grey Sector and the Smuggling. And in the event that this committee receives the support of the plenary and is set up, then the motion to drop the committee on item shall be put to the vote. 22 to monitor the KEWRC. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's the shortest.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u119	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u120	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you use arguments that are untenable. We must decide on the number according to the representation of the Members of the National Assembly as participation in the committees. I myself was elected chairman of the subcommittee for monitoring the work of the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the Forty-second National Assembly, I participated in the work of the Permanent Commission, with Chairman Iskren Veselinov, for monitoring the work of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission in the Forty-third National Assembly. I don't understand your arguments since you haven't even familiarized yourself with the activities of the committees at the previous national meetings. You obviously do not understand the public response that is in connection with the decisions of this Commission, and you probably do not understand that the authorities of the State Agency "National Security" and the Ministry of Interior are currently examining the decisions of this Commission in relation to the reaction of the Bulgarian society. I strongly oppose that there is no permanent Commission for Monitoring of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. I call on all my fellow Members not to accept the dismissal of such a Commission precisely in relation to the voter's application to us for transparency and the work of state regulators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Second line, here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The request for a second reply is with regard to the Commission for the monitoring of revenue agencies in the grey sector and smuggling. We believe that a gross mistake has been made in the wording, in the sense that the National Assembly and its committees cannot monitor the grey sector and smuggling. That's why they have specialized structures and organs, and that's what they do. Therefore, my reply to Mr. Kirilov should be a Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies because it is possible, and a legislative guarantee of countering the grey sector and smuggling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u123	Just so we're clear, Mr. Kirilov proposed a separate vote, nothing by the name he said. So in the line, you have to say whether you agree to a separate vote or not, and not by what the name of the Commission is.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u124	I don't mind the way we vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u125	Thank you. Third line, Mr. Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I am making a reply to my colleague Kirilov and I object to his proposal. I believe that today's House, if it accepts this proposal, will give a very bad sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u127	What offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u128	The proposal to drop the Commission for monitoring the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. There is hardly any other regulatory authority whose decisions to basically concern all Bulgarian citizens. Against the background of the scandals that are currently taking place there, the Commission's recent decisions on a drastic increase in prices, the checks that are being carried out in our country and in the European Commission will be a very bad sign and will be read by Bulgarian citizens that there is hardly anything that we hide that there is something that we hide, because, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, there is no more appropriate place to ask questions and to seek answers from the Bulgarian National Assembly. This committee within the previous National Assembly established a line in which it called the members of the regulator, the stakeholders, the branch organizations and a hearing was held. Bulgarian citizens had the opportunity to monitor the activities of the Commission directly and to be informed. All this was happening in the Bulgarian Parliament. I think it will be a very bad sign and it will be read that there is almost something that we are worried about in the Commission's energy and water regulation activities and we are revealing an umbrella on its activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I regret that this proposal escalates and retroacts obviously some memories in colleagues from BSP. At the moment, I do not have your views on the previous debate, what was your position on the Monitoring Commission of the SEWRC, whether it should be a subcommittee or a separate committee. I think it was the other way around. [[Replication in "BSP for Bulgaria"]] . I didn't check.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u131	Please don't call from the gym!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u132	I would like to highlight this. I'm saying this as a former member of the Energy Commission. I do not think that the change in the definition of a committee on a subcommittee would affect the scope and severity of the matter. On the contrary, as a subcommittee, this committee will be integrated into the work of the Energy Commission. As a member of the last Energy Commission, I missed the interaction with the separate Committee on the SEWRC. My request is to focus on the pragmatic effect, not on favouring the structure. I will again point out the consideration for fully functional committees. We will not succeed, including the large parliamentary groups, to cover 24 committees. Since Mr. Iankov was concerned about the authorship, I would like to tell my colleague about the other committee "My proposal for the other committee was quite different." It was for the Commission for Combating the Grey Sector and Smuggling. Since Mr. Iankov then said that the work of this committee should be directed towards revenue agencies, so we argued about the name. If you have suggestions by name, you could expose them here and now. Thank you. [[National Representative Krasimir Yankov wants the floor for a personal explanation]] .
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. For a personal explanation please come in, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u134	I will combine the personal explanation with the procedure in the manner of conduct. Mr. President, I call on you from the parliamentary tribune not to make suggestions and not to subside both representation and media through the Bulgarian society. Mr. Kirilov knows perfectly well that unverified facts and circumstances cannot be declared as such. Regarding the personal explanation. I was extremely precise in my speech. I paid attention to the importers changing their proposal, if they still support it, to have such a committee. Carefully following the debate, it becomes clear that you have managed to convince them, as they must know their place as your younger partner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u135	We voted against. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u136	I'm asking for order in this room. I give the floor to the MP Ramadan Atalay for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would not have taken the floor if it had not been for the establishment or withdrawal of a committee, for a serious attitude to the activities of the National Assembly in the formation and formation of the committees through which the National Assembly will take control and carry out its own activities. Fellow Members, it seems that in recent years we have been seeking to increase the number of committees, not in order to do the job, but to create an opportunity for the chairmanship of these committees and to make the relevant unnecessary costs. I remember very well that in the previous National Assembly, the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission was made specifically for one person. This committee has been dragging for a long time. If today someone on this committee becomes aware of what they have been doing and how they have done and what they have achieved that today the SANS has come into check with the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I will support such a committee. The energy commission or committees to be set up are directly for control of the relevant ministries. As far as I read in the media, there will be 17 ministries. Fellow Members, this National Assembly is entitled to 17 committees. The 24 committees are now about creating and satisfying coalition relations, so that the three so-called "patriots" can be distributed to them. This isn't about anything else! Therefore, colleagues, if you want us to be serious, if you want us to be respected by the people.. seventeen committees to seventeen ministries! The Energy and Water Regulatory Committee is in the Energy and Water Regulatory Committee. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u138	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u139	The Energy Committee can control all activities related to Bulgaria's energy system. As far as smuggling is concerned and the gray sector, colleagues, there is also a Ministry of Finance. If we and GERB propose to set up such a commission today, then you admit that you have not fought until now. You know that there is contraband and you will now create work for another of your coalition partners in order to deal with what the Prime Minister and the Council of Ministers have to deal with. Let's be serious! The Energy Committee will monitor the Committee on Energy and Water Regulatory and the Committee on Budget and Finance to engage in and to do its work on the control of the grey sector and, if you want, the white sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u140	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u141	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The line is related to the statement of the representative of the so-called Bulgarian party DPS. For your information, Mr. Atalay, I don't know if your supervisor is here, but you can ask him at the meeting where the number of committees was discussed, I personally suggested that the committees be reduced by two to three. So the suggestion that you're making that you're almost looking for a place for the Patriots to move somewhere doesn't answer the truth. It's basically an impure yet another manipulation! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u142	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Atalay. As a matter of fact, the number of committees was specified at the Conference of Presidents with all those involved. Ramadan ATALY (DPS): Thank you. Honourable Members, the Conference of Presidents is nothing greater than the National Assembly. You are an advisory body of the National Assembly, and whatever decision the Chamber makes, that is the decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u143	There's no question about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u144	So, the Conference of Presidents, my respect for you. As much as there is a Commission on Energy and Water Regulatory, control of this committee, I am again proposing to you and telling you that it is not appropriate and it is not necessary to create some so-called Patriots on cars and secretaries to deal with. [[Replications from OP.]] If today the National Assembly does not go and does not work at the heights of what the public expects of us and allow this tribune to be defiled from here, as you assume in the government certain people who have no place in the National Assembly, then think about the next consequences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u145	Who has a place in the National Assembly decides the Bulgarian voters. Here you go, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u146	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I take the floor on the proposal to withdraw the Commission for monitoring the work of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. I will also speak as Vice-President of this Commission in the previous National Assembly. This Commission had sufficient public importance for the work of the National Assembly and for working with consumers, i.e. with the society with those who have voted on our trust to be here. This Commission, in addition to energy problems, dealt with water prices. Water prices are yet to be a major problem in Bulgaria. Do not underestimate what is expected to happen, because with the new rules being adopted, have the readiness and these prices to jump dramatically up if there is no regulator and if there is no legislative monitoring of its activities. What the Commission has done can be seen in the archives of the National Assembly. What statements have been made, what proposals and what optimization of the work there has been for the Commission for energy and water regulation - all this is there. It's not new, it's hidden, it's not secret. To those who are proposing to have a Commission for Monitoring of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory or a Commission for Monitoring of Financial Institutions, I would like to ask a question. Do you think one of the opposites of the other, or do you think that if we do one thing, we don't have to deal with the other? Why do you think that, for example, if we adopt a Commission for Monitoring of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, the Commission for Monitoring of Financial Institutions should be dropped or vice versa? Where's the logic? What's the reason you're tying these two things together? Does the National Assembly not have the capacity to observe both, or will too much be interfering with the work of the so-called 'gray sector'? So if we're going to limit one side of the gray sector, should we let the other side of the gray sector work? It makes no sense and I suggest that you do not, as Mr. Yankov said, the number of MPs in the parliamentary committees as a criterion for their number. If we cannot have enough parliamentary representatives in the committees, reduce the number of committee members. Then you will already cover the meaning of this number is some fictional factor that you are trying to give us as an argument. In my opinion, both committees have their place in the country. If someone right now tells me that there is no smuggling and there is no gray sector, I will ask him how he will go outside to explain this to his constituents and how much they will believe him, which basically means that the specialized institutions do not do their job properly and that a legislative initiative is needed and control of the National Assembly on this activity. The same applies to the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. There are enough things that are stuck in there that have led the prosecution to enter this Commission and things that, if we take it seriously and put at the heart of our attention really the national interest, the interest of the Bulgarian citizen, the Bulgarian electoral, we can achieve significantly greater successes. I call on you to vote on the committees, as proposed by the Commission, perhaps with the wording of the Commission's name for monitoring the financial institutions, to add to the fight against the grey sector and the smuggling, because if we leave just a surveillance of the grey sector and the smuggling, then I suggest that we add the word "care" to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, dear Mr. Ermenkov! Since this debate really brings out many memories of positions and policies in relation to a subcommittee or the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, I allow myself to read the opinion of my colleague Philip Popov from the last debate a committee or subcommittee. The colleague Popov says the following: "Dear Mr. Ivanov, since you have applied to the supervisory functions of the National Assembly, why did you not accept our proposal that this National Assembly should be able to discuss and watch the submitted reports of the independent regulators introduced in the previous legislates? Why didn't you accept it? You said this function of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u149	Who's the line to?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u150	To you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u151	In addition, this function has been replaced by the National Assembly, not a separate committee to continuously supervise such an independent regulatory authority as is the relevant committee. Do not seize the competence of the National Assembly and transfer it to just one committee. Here I absolutely agree with my colleague Kazak at least, indeed this is unconstitutional. Thank you. That is, your position from the last parliament is that it is unconstitutional to have a separate KEWRC monitoring committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u152	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u153	Dear colleagues, I would like to remind some of you, especially on the left, that by the will of all of us what we are doing right now is not broadcast on TV, so we can change the rhetoric. It became clear that there are so-called Patriots and they countered the so-called Bulgarian parties. It is good that there is also representation of the strong civic formation of Volja in parliament to have representation of the true patriots and, above all, of the pragmatists, I will appeal to the word pragmatism at the moment. From what one of the representatives of BSP said, I will not mention the name in order not to enter into a dialogue, it became clear that it was in one, in a second, in a third committee and, as a result, we have an ineffective National Assembly, with the lowest rating. Leaning on other colleagues who said that we should strive to be pragmatists, not to break up according to the state administration committees, committees, subcommittees, in order to really create work for some of our colleagues, we are opposed to crushing because this only leads to inefficiency. Following our rules and ways in the lives of true pragmatists and technocrats, we propose to preserve the current situation. If there is a proposal to reduce the number of committees, we are ready to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u155	Madam President, it is difficult to make a replica of a lack of lines, because neither Mr. Kirilov made a reply to me, nor Mr. Mareshki made a reply to what I said. I don't know exactly what made them come out of the stands. Maybe my presence here was for them an exciting element to show up, too?! However, I would like to repeat once again: that we did not have an opinion at the beginning of the past National Assembly regarding this Commission does not prevent us from reviewing it. But, Mr. Kirilov, you then voted for this Commission. Why now do you want to remove it? Didn't you then make this Commission, with your votes happened, with all these, almost most when you were MPs then, you voted for the Commission, you did it, most of them were your members, and now suddenly it turns out that this Commission doesn't need to be. Be consistent, Mr. Kirilov, be consistent! Mr. Mareshki, I have nothing to do with you, because you have done nothing as a statement on the substance of my speech, except the general talk about whether or not there is more. We never knew if you wanted more or if you didn't want more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u156	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. A personal explanation from Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u157	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Mr. Kirilov, you have rightly mentioned, quoting me and Mr. Kazak, I think it is about not looking at reports from the independent regulator of the National Assembly and lag behind in this procedure. You then wanted these reports to be seen only by this Commission. That's what this is about. Therefore, do not take our speeches out of the context and do not copy them in the way you are comfortable at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u158	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Mareshki's name was also mentioned. He also wants a personal explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u159	Dear colleagues! Mr. Ermenkov, I don't know where you sat, I don't see it, it's really very difficult for bureaucrats to understand the technocrats, but we will do our best as far as there is life this National Assembly, to help you make a step in becoming more effective, which in turn will be for the benefit of the Bulgarian people and state. We are ready to assist you in this direction during the meetings and in the off-duty time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u160	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Boychev's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u161	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I'm going back to art. 17, which essentially determines our work with the name and composition of the permanent and temporary committees in the National Assembly. Indeed, the Conference of Presidents commented on the composition of the committees, their number and agreed in principle to keep it. As a member of the Temporary Commission, which is working on the proposals for these Rules, I must say that a proposal has been made on behalf of the United patriots to establish a new committee. We supported this proposal by the members of the Commission from BSP for Bulgaria. Today I would like to give some more arguments about this decision. To a large extent, before we vote on what the committees in the National Assembly will be, we must be guided by the subject of their activities, by the basis and meaning of their existence. There is hardly anyone who can challenge the existence of a grey sector by any of the methodologies in which it is measured, it is at least 30% of the country's gross product. It is unlikely that any of us can challenge the existence of smuggling and that it is essentially damaging all right players on the market. These were part of the arguments we at the BSP to support the establishment of such a type of committee. I think today the National Assembly, with its move to set up this type of committee, will make a good start and will meet the great expectations that it has towards the work of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u162	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? I won't. For the procedure Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u163	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. Please do not allow the Rules to be violated again because you have given Mr. Mareshki the opportunity to take a personal explanation procedure, as his name has been mentioned by Mr. Ermenkov, but as a duplicater of Mr. Mareshki's line. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57 it is clearly written that a Member of the National Assembly shall be entitled to a personal explanation within two minutes after a speech in plenary has been individually and individually affected. This was about the backdrop. Please, from here on out, let's follow the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u164	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A statement by Mr. Valeri Simeonov. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u165	Madam President, honourable Members, I am taking this speech to express my full support for Mr Kirilov's proposal. We will support this proposal, namely to keep the number of committees at 23, not for the reason that we need to find each place in the leadership of any committee, but simply to avoid further complicating the discussion from which we will most likely get nowhere if we continue in this way. So there is a union around the number 23 of the respective Presidency Council, however not an organ, Mr. Atalay, which is gone again, but this number can be preserved. I also fully support his proposal to drop the Monitoring Commission on the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission (EWRC). The natural place of this Commission is in the Committee on Energy as a subcommittee. Now I'm going to make arguments, because I'm a man who insists on telling the truth. The first thing I would like to say is that I am extremely surprised by the speeches of two other BSP colleagues who were members of this Commission. I feel like we've been on different committees. Have you forgotten how from the Energy Commission we ran to the KEWRC Committee and very often this Commission met with three members? Do you remember that? That's right! In most cases, most of the members of this Commission were absent. Some of them were passing by, signing and leaving. The most serious reason for this was simply that this Commission was periodically in the absence of an agenda. He didn't have a job! That's right, Mr. Ermenkov. Did you forget? We didn't have a job! That was the truth. I would like to ask, for example, you and the other colleagues: in fact, what have we been watching over the past six months, how many meetings have we had? So, this Commission, we collected it just to register one meeting a month, so it wouldn't be closed. That's right! On the other hand, the nature of the work and the decision-making of the KEWRC is usually such that it makes decisions at six months, usually around these decisions there is some discussion and that is it. I do not see what is preventing the Energy Commission, which we were all members of, or most of us were members of, both committees, from setting up the respective subcommittee to deal with the monitoring of the KEWRC. Let us not forget, however, that the KEWRC is an independent institution and decision making cannot in any way be changed, attacked and so on by a KEWRC Monitoring Commission. I do not need to convince you that the increase in gas now, the decision of the KEWR about the increase of gas is actually based on calculations from the period when we were members of this Commission? Did we know what he was getting ready for? Do we have access to the calculations of the relevant specialists in sections and sectors? It's about some pretty serious calculations, which I'm sure the members of the KEWRC didn't get into. They simply accept the proposals by stepping on the output data, analyses and accounts. However, this cannot be accessible and is not within the power of a parliamentary committee. Anyone who wants to go into the details can go into it, but... Again, this simply cannot be realized. So the natural place of this committee is to remain as a subcommittee to the Energy Commission. This does not undermine the surveillance of the KEWRC. The criticism that two years ago we voted for the establishment of such a committee, and now we do not agree with the existence of such a committee as a stand-alone one, I can answer in the following way: yes, two years ago this Commission worked, it was finally seen that there is no job. Why should we continue to persist in this committee? In order to deceive the public that it is almost dependent on the price of electricity, gas and water. It's not like that! You know that's not true. I think there's enough serious arguments. I support Mr. Kirilov's proposal and appeal to everyone to vote the number to remain 23 and this committee to drop out and remain as a subcommittee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u166	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Mr. Ermenkov, come in for a personal explanation. Are there any other speeches after that? Doesn't look like it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u167	I take occasion from the words that have been said about the work of this Commission and my personal mention, and almost that we sat there and did nothing. Firstly, I would like to remind the Members of the National Assembly, if they have forgotten that the meetings of the Commission are organised and convened by its management. As I recall, the Commission's leadership was from the United Patriotic Front at the time. The fact that the Patriotic Front and its representative as President of the Commission have not called meetings of the Commission is a problem not of the Commission, but of the management, I repeat one more time. A second time, I mean, the fact that someone ran, signed and left is a matter of conscience, it is no longer the Commission's business. The last thing I would say is that, apart from the fact that we have dealt with the same issues that have been in the Energy Commission, which actually did not meet much more often than this Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, not to say that it has met just so often once a month, we have examined and called meetings to hear the President of the Commission on current issues that have been caused by society, and for this reason we have done this work, including on the waters, which, if this Commission goes to energy, I do not know who will have to carry out this activity in monitoring its activities in relation to the water sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u168	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Just to recall, honourable Members, that there are other means to convene the Commission, apart from its President, which are laid down in the Rules of Procedure. Come in for a speech, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I will make a proposal for editing of the emerging item. 24, which is respectively the so-called "new committee', which is more frequently mentioned, namely the name of the Commission to acquire the following text: the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling. I will also say a few words to you, because at the beginning of the forty-third parliament, when the KEWRC was constructed, I had a statement on this topic and including Mr. Glauchev interrupted me at the time. Even then, I was explaining that if there is a regulator on which you make a commission for surveillance, you should do it to the others. The example of the subcommittee is very prominent, including it is written in the Rules of Procedure. If you look further as subcommittees, you will notice that, as a subcommittee of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, there is a subcommittee that monitors monopolies and protects competition, a function that belongs to the KPC. If you leave the KEWRC to be monitored externally by the Commission, it therefore means that from now on we must follow the same principle, which must be of uniformity, namely to set up the Commission for CEM, CRC, CRC, ADFI, and all independent regulators that you remember. I would ask you to support this proposal because it is most logical and currently exists in the Rules. Mr. Kanev, who was Chairman of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism in the Past National Assembly, is very familiar with the existence of such a subcommittee, which is a function of the independent regulator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u170	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. Mr. Velkov didn't see it, he suggested something by the name of the Commission, but I think it was in the same sense. There are no other speeches. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. First, we move on to the split vote. Do you accept a separate vote on the 24th Commission to be voted separately? Vote 197 MPs: for 195, against 2, no abstentions. We vote separately. We vote on it. Article 24 17, namely the establishment of the Monitoring Commission... as given in the report initially, then we will edit the name. [[Noise and lines.]] If we don't accept the Commission afterwards, what are we doing this editing for? Okay, come on, we'll do the editing, and if you reject the Commission... We are editing the Commission, and if you decide to drop it, it will remain history that you have accepted the name. We are voting on the proposal the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling, instead of the Gray Sector. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Nikolay Alexandrov for editing the name of the 24th Commission. Vote 204 MPs: for 192, no objection, abstention 12. This editing has been accepted. Now it remains to express your will to have such a Commission with such a name. They voted 201 MPs: 188, against 2, abstention 11. The Commission shall be established. We move on to the second proposal of the National Representative Danail Kirilov to drop the Commission under number 22 in the Commission's report, namely the Commission for Monitoring the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Vote 205 MPs: 132, against 73, no abstentions. The Commission for the Monitoring of the Activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission is adjourned. Come in for a re-vote, the people's representative Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Except for the objective reason that he had colleagues to...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u172	I'm not gonna let you get to the point. The only reason is if...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u173	Mr. Chairman, don't interrupt me... [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) The orator continues to speak with microphones off.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u174	Revoting procedure. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Crashing banks.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u175	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u176	Revoting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u177	In the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u178	After...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u179	In the manner of conduct...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u180	Leave the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u181	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u182	Leave the stands. There's a re-election procedure, then I'll give you a chance. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Revoting procedure. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u183	Mr. Chairman, bring order to the Chamber. Let your colleagues sit on the left. They're in the way. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u184	Don't call from the gym, Mr. Ivanov. Please suspend the vote and declare a result. They voted 209 MPs: 135 against 74 abstentions. The committee's been suspended.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u185	It's the way it's supposed to be. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u186	Come on in, Mr. Ivanov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Which one of you wants to do something? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u187	The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u188	Dear colleagues, it turns out that we know about the rules as much as Mr. Glauchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u189	That's a controversial question...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u190	I voted against the decision to dismiss this committee. I will not repeat the words of my fellow Members who spoke before me and expressed this opinion. I mean, congratulations to those in charge, congratulations to your new coalition. It was evident that with the first votes during the Rules it worked against the interests of the Bulgarian people with the exclusion from the Standing Committees, from the list of these committees of the Commission, which will control the water and energy regulator. Apparently, the people's interests were put in the attic in the interest of general government. Congratulations again! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u191	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Second negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u192	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! We made a mistake when we repealed this Commission. It is clear to everyone that in the coming months what is happening in the KEWRC and in terms of prices will be a public issue of great importance and no one will be able to cover themselves from it. Instead of giving a forum where we can talk, you're acting like you're holding my hat. That's not a good approach.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u193	I ask you to refine your language, you are in the plenary room of the Bulgarian Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u194	I accept the remark. I voted against it because I am in this National Assembly for the first time and I have come here to try to solve problems, not to cover them up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u195	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Is there another negative vote? Here you go, Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]] Then in the way of holding the people representative Ivan Ivanov and the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u196	Colleagues, I voted against the Commission dropping out, although in the previous National Assembly I have not been to see how it works. But what I saw was that the Commission needed no National Assembly... [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u197	Please be quiet in the hall. Respect your colleague who's on the stand.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I saw that the Commission needed no National Assembly to make the changes to make the sharp price changes. The fact is that the sudden changes came when there was no monitoring of the Commission, which I personally explain to myself to a large extent that this Commission had it. In other words, the Commission makes sense to me, and we are now making one of the mistakes. It is true that it could have been like a subcommittee, but it is true that when there is a Commission, the attention is greater and I think we are making a gross mistake right now because we are weakening control over it, the result will always be speculative. Always the big capital, unfortunately, has more control opportunities than we do.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. We vote on the name of Chapter Five... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll give you the floor in the manner of conduct after the vote. We are continuing with the voting procedure. We are voting on the name of Chapter 5 on the Commission report, as well as on art. 17 on the Commission report following the changes made and adopted by the plenary. They voted 201 MPs: 135 against 30, abstention 36. The name of Chapter Five and Art. 17 on the Commission report, together with the amendments adopted by plenary, have been adopted. In the manner of keeping the word there is the national representative Ivan Ivanov, after him the folk representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Departure of the word of a Member of the National Assembly a constitutional law, and non-compliance with the Rules of the National Assembly is an extremely bad testimonial for the future work of the Forty-fourth National Assembly, especially with your conduct in this Chamber. You have not even given the Member of the National Assembly, in my person, an opportunity to argue why this vote should be taken again. You might not even approve of my reason for asking for a re-vote. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u201	I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u202	What you have done and what we see with these blatant violations of the Rules of the National Assembly are an extremely bad message to all Members of the National Assembly, including those who are in this Chamber for the first time. I ask you from now on to take measures to explicitly comply with these Rules and from you, not only by your runners, but by yourself. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u203	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. My runners are called Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. [[Radio.]] In addition, ask Mr. Genov to give you some details of the Rules so that you can understand that you are wrong about what you are talking about. Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u204	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My request on the left is: be a little more restrained. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The election's over. Let the parliamentary tribune really have the authority of those who speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u205	Mr. Tsvetanov, to me... [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm asking for order in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u206	Because this isn't the Nova TV studio where Mr. Zarkov accused of broadcasting for some elderly people, because there are students here who have come today to watch the meeting. We'd better applaud them for being here in plenary. [[Applause]] , but let us not applaud your behaviour, which you demonstrate here when we are looking at an important bill and it is related to the Rules of Procedure of the Forty-fourth Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u207	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u208	Before we continue with the report, honourable Members, allow me to introduce you to you, I would rather inform you that on the balcony above our guests are students from the Natural Mathematical Profiled High School. Kliment Ohridski from Montana, students from 10th grade. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 17, which becomes art. 18. Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: Article 18 is amended as follows: The Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the Commission on Control of Security Services and Use of Special Intelligence and Access to Data under the Law on Electronic Communications is formed on a parietal principle by two from each parliamentary group. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 18, which becomes Article 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u210	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u211	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, we propose that, along with the Commission, which is at the moment of the monetary principle, two more committees be set up on this principle, namely the first one is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the other committee that we propose on a parietal principle, this is the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. My arguments are as follows. On the first committee we heard from the statements of the chairmen of parliamentary groups on the first day of this National Assembly that this is an undisputed priority of all parliamentary groups. In this way, we will show that we are all working in the same direction and we are not divided into parties. Therefore, I think it is appropriate that this Commission be formed on a monetary principle. My second Commission on our proposal - the control of the services to be formed on a parietal principle - is that since the establishment of the Commission, with the exception of the 43rd National Assembly, it has always been formed on this principle - a sensitive, delicate subject where there is no way to have party struggles. It's about national security and working with classified information. I am using this statement, to take the procedure for the proposal on both committees to be voted separately, because one Member of the National Assembly may like the work of one committee, to be on this principle and not on the other. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u212	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The request of colleagues from the DPS parliamentary group is transparent, but I object to the proposal, as the security environment has changed, the work of the security sector is specific, and especially the Commission, which you propose to be structured on a parietal principle - the Security Services Control Commission and the use of special intelligence resources and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, there must be an opportunity for greater representation of parliamentary groups according to the voter's will. I did not hear your arguments on the proposal for a monetary principle of representation in the third committee, which is puzzling, provided that with this committee and with the work of the MPs in a broader format, again according to the will of the Bulgarian voters, the opposition, verbal attacks and who has stopped the EU funds and worked in the name of Bulgaria to absorb the maximum amount of resources that are in the improvement of the environment for life and the way our fellow citizens live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u213	Thank you. Come in for a second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u214	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Hamid! Thank you for the introduction you made to your procedural proposal. I would object, in the part of a money-bearing principle, to the Security Services Control Commission and to the use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, in view of the fact that, in the last parliament, this committee was acting on a proportionate basis and proved to be in this way viable. But thank you for the proposal for a separate vote, because I would personally support your proposal for a monetary principle with regard to the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, especially in the context of the forthcoming Presidency of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u215	For the third line please, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u216	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mr. Hamid! To a certain extent, there is logic in your opinions and proposals, but, nevertheless, agree, honourable Members, that we are about to have the Presidency of the European Union. A Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds in a reduced composition of two people from a parliamentary party would certainly make it very difficult for it to do its work and decision-making. Because the parliamentary dimension of our Presidency will be extremely busy and this committee will have quite serious functions. So I think common sense would not allow such an extremely important committee in this period to be of such reduced composition. I was also surprised by Mr. Kirilov's support in this direction, as yesterday a completely different item was made in the Temporary Commission and the arguments put forward in this direction were precisely in support of dropping such a proposal. Understand, the burden that this committee will have in the coming months will be extremely high and such a reduced composition would greatly undermine its functions and make it difficult for Parliament itself to work on our Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u217	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u218	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Exactly with your arguments, because the situation is a little more worrying, we need a much greater union and a more serious attitude towards national security, it cannot be a priority of one or two major parties. That's why we offer the money principle. You in your line if you mean that you are a much larger group than ours, never forget that besides quantitative dimensions there are quality ones.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u219	Mr. Hamid, what do you suggest, how do we divide the text into your suggestions? The proposal is: art. 18 is amended as follows and follows your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u220	Next up is our proposal, Mr. Chairman, that's right. First to vote on the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u221	Your proposal is the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, and here the third committee is attached, and we end: Should drop the last one, maybe?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u222	Dismiss the last committee, then vote before the first one whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u223	Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be very brief. I understand why GERB does not want some of these committees or all to be on the money principle, but I do not understand why BSP colleagues do not want? Having more representatives in one committee does not mean that you have more weight in making decisions. I see no more serious field of national consensus than, let us say, firstly: the priorities for our European Presidency. Why shouldn't this committee be on a pariah principle? Why should the opposition not have equal votes with the ruling majority? It doesn't make any sense. So we can have one more representative. So what? It is precisely in this committee and precisely because the Presidency is about to come, it must be the first time on a parietal principle. I don't remember it ever being here. As for the Commission for Control of Services. Colleagues, it is precisely because of the changed situation that it must be on a parietal basis. Can you tell me another more important public field on which consensus is more imperative than national security? Especially in view of the events that are taking place around us. These two committees must be on a pariah principle. This requires both logic and the situation and the changed situation in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u225	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u226	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In fact, the statement will be as short as possible. After discussing with the leadership of the GERB Parliamentary Group, our decision will be to support the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, as has been done. That is to say, all three committees should be on a parietal principle, the Commission for Conflict of Interest, the Commission for European Affairs and Funds, and the Commission for Control of the Services and Special Intelligence Funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u227	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Hamid, you're withdrawing your offer in this situation, aren't you? Are there any other statements? Actually, first of all, a line to Mr. Kirilov? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't either. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission, but you have heard Mr. Kirilov's explanations. Vote 190 MPs: 172 against 8, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Vote art. 18 on the Commission report, in the light of the proposal which has just been adopted, that is, this proposal becomes the text of art. 18 on the Commission report. Vote 183 MPs: 169, against 2, abstention 12. Article 18 has been adopted as you have just voted for it. We are now voting on the text of the Project for Art. 18, which becomes Art. 19 in the Commission report, supported by the same. Vote art. 19 on the Commission report. Vote 194 MPs: for 194, against and abstention there is no. Article 19 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Article 19. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 19 which becomes Art. 20. Article 20 supposed by the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: and in art. 20 at the end of the sentence is added. 20 and so on. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. The Commission does not support the proposal. I will just point out here that, in view of our previous vote, this proposal should be supported in plenary. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 20, which becomes art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u229	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. Vote 192 MPs: 191, against 1, no abstentions. We are now voting on the wording of art. 21 in accordance with the newly adopted proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. Vote 192 MPs: 184 against 1, abstention 7. Article 21 has been adopted on the Commission's report in accordance with the proposal previously adopted. We're going back to Art. 20 on the Commission report. Vote art. 20 on the Commission report. They voted 193 MPs: for 193, against and abstention there is no. Article 20 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u230	Article 21. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 21, which becomes Art. 22. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 22, which becomes Art. 23. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 23, which becomes art. 24. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 24, which becomes Art. 25. But here, Mr. Chairman, with a view to voting and the will of the National Assembly, a new para should be created in a previous provision. 4 containing the following content: (4) The Energy Commission shall be set up a permanent subcommittee for monitoring the activity of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission and the current paragraph. 4 to become para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u231	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote in art. 24 of the Project, which becomes art. 25 on the report, to create a new para. 4 with the corresponding content which was presented to you by the parliamentary tribune by the MP Danail Kirilov. Alinea 4 of the Project becomes al. 5, if you accept the offer. Please vote. They voted 193 MPs: 190, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on Articles 22 to 25, including the Commission report, as in art. 25 we are voting on the newly adopted proposal from the parliamentary platform. Vote 194 MPs: for 193, against none, abstention 1. Articles 22 to 25 have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u232	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 25, which becomes art. 26. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs for the creation of a new art. 26. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish art. 27. Mr. Chairman, I'm making an offer here to correct the numbering. Art. 27. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall, every three months, invite the Prosecutor General to hold a discussion on the application of the law and the activities of the prosecution and investigating bodies, including legislative changes, resource assurance, difficulties relating to the performance of the functions of the judiciary, results in the fight against crime, including: corruption, interaction with the investigating authorities. A discussion shall also be held at the initiative of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, the President of the Supreme Administrative Court or the Prosecutor General. For the outcome of the discussions, the Commission shall draw up a report to be submitted to the Members of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u233	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote art. 26 on the Commission report, as well as the proposal of the same to create art. 27 on its report with its corresponding content, which has just been presented to you by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. We are voting on Articles 26 and 27 on the Commission report. They voted 193 MPs: for 193, against and abstention there is no. Articles 26 and 27 on the Commission report have been adopted unanimously.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u234	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 26, which becomes Art. 28. Under art. 27 "A proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the Project in principle and proposes the following version for art. 27, which becomes art. 29: Art. 29. (1) In the first hour of the meetings of the Standing Committees, each first Wednesday or Thursday of the month, the Regional Ministers shall appear before the relevant committees and shall answer any relevant oral questions made by the members of the Committees at the meeting itself. Issues addressed should concern specific policies and should not contain requests for detailed numerical data. (2) The right to two oral questions shall be a member of the committee of each parliamentary group, and the Members of the National Assembly who are not members of a parliamentary group shall be entitled to two questions in total. (3) The minister to whom the question has been addressed shall answer immediately after the question has been asked. In the event of the Minister's absence for respectable reasons, the committee shall, in agreement with him, determine the meeting to which it will answer up-to-date oral questions. (4) The order to ask the current oral questions under para. 1 shall be determined according to the number of parliamentary groups in descending order, the last in line being a Member of the National Assembly not belonging to a parliamentary group. Asking the second questions is in the same order after the procedure on the first questions is exhausted. (5) The time for the presentation of the question shall be up to 2 minutes. The minister's answer is in three minutes. The MP who asked the question is entitled to a reply of up to 2 minutes and the Minister is also entitled to a reply of up to 2 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u235	You have the floor to speak. Dr. Ademov was the first to sign up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u236	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! My speech is on the occasion of the proposal of the President of the Commission Danail Kirilov. He proposes that the last one within an hour and a half should be replaced by the one hour. See what this is about, ladies and gentlemen. What's written in para. 2, is the right to two oral questions, to which each member of the committee is entitled. Five parliamentary groups on two issues are ten questions. The procedure.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Nine times five out of the first round of questions is 45 minutes. The second round of questions is another 45 minutes. Then we restrict the right of the MPs to control the executive power. You know, that's al. 2 contradicts what we see as the final version of the Commission? This in purely arithmetic accounts cannot happen if we do not accept the hypothesis that we purposely want to restrict the right of the MPs to control the executive power in the face of the ministers. Mr. Kirilov, so I suggest that you withdraw your proposal and remain the old procedure, because practice shows that it does not interfere in any way with the activities of the individual committees. Don't do it, it doesn't make any sense!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u237	Any lines? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u238	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will try briefly to present the arguments of our parliamentary group that made the proposal. Its purpose and basis is to conduct the blitzcontrol of the ministers in the committees at the beginning of their meeting. Thus we practiced in the previous Assembly regardless of the reverse record that the hearing took place at the end of the committee meeting. It's our central intent. With regard to the time that we have corrected, I strongly state that we did not have a deliberate restrictive objective. I explained this in the Commission as well. Our logic is this. There used to be eight parliamentary groups, now there are five groups. The reduction in the number of parliamentary groups could lead to a reduction in time. Indeed, Mr. Ademov's calculation is correct if each question follows the whole procedure categorically. Yeah, then two rounds of 45 minutes actually make it an hour and a half. However, please note the following. First of all, it doesn't really happen that way. Secondly, if there is interest in asking questions, I do not think that any chairman of a committee listening to a minister will limit control with the argument that time is running out. I don't think we should argue about that. Again, not every question leads to a complete procedure, to a replica and a duplicate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u239	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? I won't. Dr. Ademov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u240	Thank you, Mr President and Madam President at the moment. Mr. Kirilov, the arguments with which you defended your proposal make me think I'm absolutely right. This is an absolutely pointless debate. To assume now from the place you are currently taking, from the position you are taking, from the chair of the Temporary Commission for Drafting Rules, to claim that one or the other committee will have one or the other hypothesis, when there are uncomfortable questions, it is natural that the President, especially if he is from the ruling party, will allow himself to limit the right to ask questions. So please consider my opinion and accept the dropping of the proposal you are proposing, because with the arguments you have defended your proposal, you make me think that I am absolutely right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u241	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Mr. Philip Popov for speaking. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u242	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members, I am making an editorial proposal. Let the first hour remain, but add to it the one-and-a-half hour. To maintain this half-hour for the possibility of controlling the respective ministers, because contrary, especially in correspondence and in unison with what is proposed further in the rules for dropping the practice of blitzcontrol, it simply shows a difficult attempt to limit parliamentary control by the National Assembly to the executive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u243	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u244	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, I would probably think like you, but I would try to remember the logic of this editing in its previous existence. If you suspect us with these grounds, please do the arithmetic in the previous parliament, when there were eight parliamentary groups of 9 minutes, i.e. twice 72 minutes, a total of 144 minutes. One hundred and forty-four minutes is not much more than an hour and a half, that is, 90 minutes? But this was a working editing and this is a working editing in both forty-two and forty-third Parliament. If the House supports your proposal, then I ask you to use the expression, as it has been in the provision in force so far................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u245	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u246	I absolutely agree with you. That's exactly what I suggested in an hour and a half. Whether it is at the beginning of the meeting or at the end of the meeting, it does not matter at all. Indeed, the practice in the previous National Assembly was at the beginning of the meeting of the relevant committee to listen to the ministers. That is why my proposal is within an hour and a half at the beginning of the sitting. I think there's no problem with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u247	Thank you, Mr. Popov. To speak, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u248	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Kirilov, to you is the question so that you can answer me in the form of a line: why should we set hours? We have a procedure under which we conduct blitzcontrol with certain inside blitzcontrol times where questions, answers, lines, duplicates, number of questions are asked. Why don't we just write the text: At the beginning of the meetings of the Standing Committees each first meeting and so on continue on the text, which will neither limit the time nor there will be any suspicions about this thing, we just end the cycle first, second question if there is a second question, and things are solved. We do not need to put any time parameters that, on the one hand, may prove to be too long, on the other hand, too short. That is why my proposal is editorial: At the beginning of the meetings of the Standing Committees and on the text, as you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u249	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. For a line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u250	Thank you, Madam President. Although I'm taking a line, it makes sense in Mr. Ermenkov's proposal. I would support it in this way, and I would also ask our fellow Members from our parliamentary group to support it. Thank you. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u251	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u252	After Mr. Ermenkov's proposal, I withdraw my proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u253	Thank you. Mr. Ermenkov, the coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u254	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u255	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u256	Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the editorial proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Tasco Ermenkov: At the beginning of the meetings of the Standing Committees... Isn't this instead of the first one hour, it's at the beginning of the meetings and it's not regulated that it's one hour?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u257	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u258	And then there's the text under para. 1 of art. 29. Please vote on the proposal made by the MP Tasco Ermenkov. Vote 187 MPs: 186, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 29 on the Commission's report, together with the newly adopted editorial proposal under para. 1. Please vote. Vote 189 MPs: 189, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 29 on the Commission's report with the proposal under para. 1, which was adopted previously, has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u259	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 28, which becomes art. 30. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 29, which becomes art. 31. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 30, which becomes art. 32. Under art. 31 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version for art. Art. 31, which becomes Art. 33: Art. 33. (1) The Chairs of the Standing Committees shall announce in writing the agenda, time and place of meetings on the website of the National Assembly and by e-mail to the members of the Committee. The agenda for the regular meetings of the committees shall be announced at least two days before they are held. In cases where extraordinary committee meetings are held, the agenda shall be announced at the same time as the deadline. (2) The Standing Committees shall meet when more than half of their members are present. If, after the time for the opening of the meeting, the quorum is not available, the committee may also meet with the composition available where it is not less than one third of all its members. (3) When discussing bills and other acts at committee meetings, the importer shall be heard. When the bill is submitted by the Council of Ministers, a member of the Council of Ministers or Deputy Minister shall be heard at the meeting. (4) The decisions of the Standing Committees shall be taken by a majority of those present.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u260	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. I shall put to the vote Members from 30 to 33, including on the Commission's report. Please vote. Vote 186 MPs: for 186, against and abstention there is no. Articles 30 to 33, including, have been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u261	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 32, which becomes Art. 34. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 33, which becomes Art. 35. The Commission does not support the text of the draft for art. 34. Proposal by the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish art. 36: Art. 36. (1) For the meetings of the Permanent and Temporary Committees of the National Assembly there shall be a shorthand protocol, as well as an audio recording. (2) The minutes shall be signed by the Chair of the Commission and by the lead minutes. (3) The minutes of the discussion of bills shall be published on the Committee's website of the National Assembly within 7 days of the meeting and no later than 24 hours before the examination of the report in plenary. (4) The minutes of the closed meetings of the Standing Committees shall have a special storage, reporting and access regime as required by the Classified Information Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u262	You have the floor for speeches, honourable Members. There are no speeches. We are voting on Articles 34 and 35 on the Commission report. Vote 184 MPs: 184, no opposition and no abstentions. Articles 34 and 35 of the Commission report have been adopted. Vote art. 34 on the project, which is not supported by the Commission, that is, it proposes rejecting this article, which is not written here. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject art. 34 on the project. Vote 166 MPs: 166, no opposition and no abstentions. The text of the project for art. 34 is rejected. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new art. 36 with its respective content, as presented by the parliamentary tribune. Vote art. 36 on the Commission report. They voted 183 MPs: 183, no opposition and no abstentions. Article 36 on the Commission report has been unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u263	The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 35, which becomes art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 36, which becomes art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u264	We are voting on Articles 37 and 38 on the Commission report. Vote 178 MPs: for 177, against none, abstention 1. Articles 37 and 38 on the Commission report have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u265	"Chapter 6.................. with non-governmental organizations....................................................................................... The Commission supports the text of the draft for the name of Chapter Six. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 37, which becomes Art. 39. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 38, which becomes art. 40. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 39, which becomes art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Article 40, which shall become Article 40. 42. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 41, which becomes art. 43. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 42, which becomes art. 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u266	Statements? There are no speeches. I'm closing the debate. We vote on the name of Chapter Six, together with Articles 39 to 44, including on the Commission report. Vote 179 MPs: for 178, against 1, no abstentions. The name of Chapter 6 and Articles 39 to 44, including the Commission report, have been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u267	"The National Assembly's meetings and sessions. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for the name of Chapter 7. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. Art. 43, which becomes Art. 45. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 44, which becomes Art. 46. Under art. 44a has a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version for art. Article 44a, which becomes Article 44a. 47: Art. 47. Each session is opened with the anthem of the Republic of Bulgaria and the anthem of the European Union. The Commission shall support the text of the draft under art. 45, which becomes art. 48. The Commission shall support the text of the draft for art. 46, which becomes art. 49. Under art. 47 has a proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version for art. 47, which becomes Art. 50: Art. 50. (1) The meetings of the National Assembly shall be closed when: 1. important state interests require this; 2. documents classified under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information shall be discussed. (2) Proposal for a closed session under para. 1, t. 1 can make the President of the National Assembly, one tenth of the MPs or the Council of Ministers. (3) In the case of a proposal for a closed meeting under para. 1, t. 1 The Chair shall order all outsiders to leave the hall and balconies and to suspend direct media transmission and broadcast over the Internet. After listening to the proposal's motives, the National Assembly discussed and voted on the proposal. In accordance with the outcome of the vote, the sitting shall continue as closed or open. (4) In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 The sittings are closed without discussing and voting. The President shall communicate the graffiti by which the document is classified under the Classified Information Protection Act and shall order all outsiders to leave the hall and balconies, and the direct transmission to the media and broadcast over the Internet shall be suspended and the meeting shall continue as closed without any discussion and vote. (5) The deliberations and minutes of the closed meeting shall be classified and shall bind to the respective duties all Members of the National Assembly and other persons having access to them. (6) Decisions taken in closed session shall be made public.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u268	You have the floor to speak. Here you go. The word is from the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u269	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My statement... In general, I agree with the Commission's proposal, with the exception of para. 4 "In the cases under para. 1, t. 2 The sitting was closed without discussing and voting. The previous paragraph was again proposed without discussing and voting. I think it is appropriate, however, that the National Assembly, before we proceed to a closed session, discuss whether the sitting should indeed be closed. Why take away this opportunity for discussion from the MPs, but to close the meeting directly? That's my offer. Let us remain, of course, the possibility of a closed session, but it does not prevent the possibility of discussing whether it is closed or not closed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u270	Well, then there is: After listening to the motives, discussing and voting the proposal. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. For a line, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u271	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! This proposal has been submitted by us, by our group, but it was made at the request of the Directorate of Parliamentary Meetings, in order to clearly distinguish the two assumptions when the meeting is closed at the will of the National Assembly and when it is closed automatically, simply because there is a classified document that is with a griff, and then there is no need to have a debate. It cannot have a debate either, because the debate is about a secret document, which means the debate must be held in closed session. So this is out of the will of the Members of the National Assembly. They have no way of thinking about it. Then they must comply with the Classified Information Act, which requires the discussion to be closed. This was logic, and here we have proposed the text as proposed by the Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u272	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are voting on the name of Chapter 7 as well as Articles 45 to 50, including on the Commission report. Please vote. [[National Representative Philip Popov withdraws his proposal.]] As before, Mr. Philip Popov withdrew his offer. Vote 169 MPs: for 169, against and abstention there is no. The name of Chapter 7 and Articles 45 to 50, including, are unanimously adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u273	Under art. 48 has a proposal from the MP Valeri Simeonov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission generally supports the text of the draft and proposes the following version for art. 48, which becomes art. 51: Art. 51. (1) The open meetings of the National Assembly shall be transmitted directly by the Bulgarian National Radio at a frequency defined by it, covering the territory of the whole country, with reports on the Bulgarian National Television, as well as by a parliamentary TV channel (BNT). The broadcast signal shall be provided for free and free use. The open meetings of the National Assembly are broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. (2) Direct transmission of plenary sessions on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio shall be broadcast by decision of the National Assembly. (3) The plenary sessions in which parliamentary control is held shall be transmitted directly under the BNT 2 programme to the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u274	You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Kutev. Then Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u275	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! What is interesting to me is that all of the.. how to say it is problematic, precisely those who are controversial and problematic, from the point of view of the democratic mechanism proposals no longer come from the group of GERB, but from the United patriots, which is indicative. For most of us it is clear that when you move the parliamentary control from Channel 1 to BNT 2, there are actually problems because it is obvious that BNT 2 is being watched much less than the main channel 1 program of National Television. And that's obvious! And now, if someone pretends not to know that the sheer of one channel is different from the other and that it is actually reaching a different, significantly smaller number of viewers.... [[Noise and lines.]] Of course you do, gentlemen! You're just trying to get the hot chestnuts out and you're being used. And why do you agree to be used, it's incomprehensible to me. But I'm kind of connecting him to a guilty conscience and a bad attitude. However, the problem is that this thing leads to damage that cannot be corrected. I know how hard it was for me to introduce blitzcontrol, because when you start introducing some democratic mechanisms under your own rule, you always face resistance. It is very easy to do BNT a service and despite the money we give it, to release it from the need for Channel 1 to broadcast parliamentary control. But as a representative of a party that has climbed and fallen out of power many times, I am telling you that the opposition's capabilities, democratic mechanisms, must be safeguarded. Because this is the foundation of the society we live in. And that someone by chance would excuse me, but it was the United Patriots that accidentally took you up to power...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u276	Please, Mr. Kutev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u277	...does not mean that you can afford to destroy mechanisms that existed long before you and which are then not clear when you stay in opposition for long or dropped by the National Assembly, you can recover. Because destroying democratic opportunities is easy, but building them is hard, and you're not the kind of person who did it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u278	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I won't. The people's representative Ivan Ivanov has the floor for speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u279	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! One of the main functions of the Members of the National Assembly is to articulate their activities to society. The publicity of the work of the National Assembly should always be at the forefront. Such a proposal, which is being made to limit the broadcast of the Bulgarian national television broadcasts in BNT 2 channel, limits to a large extent these opportunities. I think that everyone here present, especially those who have been in previous national meetings, has been asked questions repeatedly in meetings with their voters, for example: Why are you not sitting in parliamentary control? Why aren't you in the gym? Why are you not active enough? " - This is the only opportunity for such monitoring of the work of the Members of the National Assembly. This was the direct transmission on Channel One. With a similar offer and getting us into BNT 2... I do not want to belittle the channels of the Bulgarian National Television, but BNT 2 does not catch everywhere. It is caught in certain settlements, but is not caught by every TV set, by every Bulgarian citizen. The imposition of such a curtain on the activities of the MPs will certainly not raise the authority of this institution. Especially the 43rd National Assembly ended with an extremely low rating. Let us not allow today with such a decision to sink quite to the bottom of the swamp of people's mistrust of such an institution. Our work is... and this has been articulated by the parliamentary forces in the establishment of this National Assembly... to raise the authority of this institution. I ask you, with such decisions, that we do not get into a situation where we no longer have contact with our constituents. The only contact, the only way to show that we have understood something from our meetings with them, is the parliamentary control and broadcast of these live broadcasts on Channel 1 of the Bulgarian National Television. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u280	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Come in for a speech, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u281	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The feeling is created that in these Rules is somehow quietly and slowly passing a... the line of censorship and undermining of trust, already low to the National Assembly. Because with this proposal, as well as other proposals that are to be voted on in these Rules, and which you have voted on at the moment, there is a feeling of behind-the-scenes. [[Voices: "Eeeeeeeeeee" in the O.R. block.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u282	Well, or not, that's what it feels like.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u283	Please order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u284	Why should you be included on the Bulgarian National Television on which of its channels to broadcast the broadcast directly? Why shouldn't she have this operational independence? The recording, which currently exists, clearly states that it is broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television. Whether it will be broadcast on Channel 1 or on BNT 2, it is now a matter of the management of the TV by which of the two channels to broadcast the direct transmission. Why do you have to take this opportunity away from them? A large part of Bulgarian citizens do not have the opportunity to watch BNT 2 because it has no coverage throughout the country. That's definite! Please don't go down on parliamentaryism again! It is also visible about the blitzcontrol that we will vote for in the forthcoming texts and in this proposal. There's nothing to hide here in the National Assembly. This is why it is the National Assembly, so it is public for citizens to have direct contact, to see what is happening here, in this National Assembly, who is here, who votes, who asks what questions and which minister or prime minister is not here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u285	Thank you, dear Lord Popov. - What's the line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u286	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! With regard to ensuring publicity, transparency and enabling all Bulgarian citizens to monitor the work of their MPs, the control they carry out on their behalf and on their behalf on the work of the executive authority, I think it is untenable that the broadcasts of parliamentary control should be limited in BNT 2. Without having to speculate why, who and how made this proposal here I do not see Mr. Simeonov here, I will propose an editorial amendment, namely the removal of the number 2 of para. 3 of art. Article 48 which, according to the Commission's report, is art. 51. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u287	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. - What's the line? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u288	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In connection with the Law on Radio and Television and the Rules on the Structure and Organization of the Bulgarian National Television, art. 7, in accordance with the requirements of the Law......................................................................................... 1, t. 2 and 3, a proposal has been submitted for the broadcast of direct transmission of plenary sessions by decision of the National Assembly and parliamentary control, which changes the current practice of broadcasting the meetings and parliamentary control on the main channel of BNT. I'm paying attention to you because there is also a controversy about the viewing of individual channels. Yes, they are Bulgarian national television, but its management on the TV website explicitly informs the public that Channel 1 is a major national public channel, a widely targeted polythematic profile aimed at the largest audience with accents on the news, the strong publicist, documentaries and entertainment programs for the whole family, while for BNT 2 it is announced: The channel unites into a single national network the so far separate programs of the five regional centers of Sofia, Plovdiv, Varna, Ruse and Blagoevgrad. It is untenable that there will be the same publicity and the same audience. Colleagues, I draw your attention to the fact that, in connection with the license issued by the SEM on BNT 2, it is explicitly mentioned that 12% of the daily programming time should be news; 25% of the weekly programming time...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In fact, who do you want to hide from the general public, as has the leadership of BNT announced? The future executive power?! Boyko Borisov as Prime Minister?! And the little coalition partner offered it so he could know his place?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u289	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? I won't. We move on to Mr. Zhelyo Boychev's statement. Here you go, Mr. Boychev. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u290	Anyone who submits a request shall be given the floor. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are about to do something that.. as information about the new MPs, almost in every National Assembly this issue begins to be seen in one form or another. It starts to explain, see how we interfere with the program scheme of the Bulgarian National Television, which, by the way, is public television and is financed by the state budget. I can't believe they can't line up their shows. How this was almost a waste of time and no one saw it. How better it was for the National Assembly to build its own channel, which I do not know from where. However, there is only one truth: each majority begins and tries to make it as difficult to make public the work of the National Assembly. If today we take this decision, it will be a huge breakthrough and a first step towards the moving censorship that is required by these Rules. You will also remove the blitzcontrol, you will remove the broadcast of parliamentary control on the Bulgarian national television. Then let's not sit down at all. Then let us not ask anyone at all, because, you see, it can be embarrassing for the Prime Minister, for one of the ministers to come out and explain to the Bulgarian people what it is about, notice, an up-to-date question asked by the MP. What's the point of hiding these people? I'm sorry Mr. Glauchev isn't behind me right now. This is an act directed directly against the newly elected President of the National Assembly. In his first statements, he declared something quite different about what would follow from this tribune and what he would stand for as a job, such as seeking consent, as the publicity of the National Assembly in view of the low authority from which this institution started. I'm asking: what are we going to do with these things? We strongly object to this and will not support the limitation of the possibility of parliamentary control being transmitted on Bulgarian national television.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u291	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. To speak, Mr. Genov. Just to remind you that plenary sessions are given directly on the website of the National Assembly, so this is also a contribution to transparency. [[Heckling]] Just a reminder. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u292	Madam President, not all people in our country have access to the Internet. That's what I want to start with... [[Replications. Noise and shout.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u293	This is a contribution to transparency. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u294	Order! Order! Mr. Manushev is very replicating there, he's making the wrong call.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u295	Please, colleagues, order in the court!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u296	Dear colleagues, this is another crime against Bulgarian democracy, against transparency. Well, let's disband the parliament. What are we here for? You can't ask a question, there's no one to answer. Perhaps you'd like to hide some future slices in the station? That's probably the purpose of the event we're doing. I don't understand it any other way. It's a good thing we have a patient people. Remember what happened in Poland a few months ago, when the parliament there voted on such people as you standing on that side, they voted to limit media access to Parliament's work. It's a good thing we have a patient people and still tolerate people like you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u297	Thank you, Mr. Genov. To speak, Mr. Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u298	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! My personal opinion that such a discussion is absolutely pointless! I don't accept any reproach of the kind that we almost pulled out someone else's chestnuts, as a colleague from BSP said. The coworker probably knows us a little bit. There's no such movie. There is no one who can force us to do something that is against our will, and I speak on behalf of the United patriots. I'm sure in the next four years you'll be sure of that. So don't give me such accusations and insinuations! I would like to draw your attention to this: is there actually any restriction on access to information from Parliament? Is there a violation of the principles of democracy that some of your colleagues mention in reality? Does it limit the right of a person who is willing to monitor meetings to do so? No, it is not limited in any way by either technical or political. Why? For the simple reason that channel 2, BNT 2 is viewed at absolutely all places where channel 1 is viewed as a technical opportunity. There are specialists among you, if they have dignity, to stand up and deny it. [[Heckling]] That's right, BNT 2 is broadcast by multiplexor, as is BNT 1, Channel 1. Nowhere where Channel 1 is being broadcast is missing BNT 2. So any viewer who wishes to have access and watch TV screen meetings can do so anywhere in Bulgaria. I exclude the case Mrs Karayancheva mentioned on the Internet. I rule out that a number of television stations, whose names I will not mention, are broadcasting directly, including television, which I have recently managed, have broadcasts of entire meetings. [[Reply.]] Yes, it is. Then whose rights are we limiting? What's that howling about? Why these strong words, when after all... Do you know what this conversation is about and where the conclusions of your statements lead? The conclusion is only one: we are great, we are unique, we are unique, we must be broadcast at all costs! We're banging our feet, we should be on the air, right?! And on BNT 1. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] You, I suppose, have been informed, at least the management, because a large part of the management of the Forty-third National Assembly, of your group, is the same now, I suppose, you know about the letters of BNT, I show you a few letters. There are dozens of cases in which the program scheme of channel 1 has had to be violated, not with the termination of any series or films, but with the termination of international events, at Olympic competitions, so that at some committee of parliament and wanting to broadcast this meeting at the moment, because it was very unique this committee, the meeting was very unique. [[Noise and lines.]] Don't you afford it too much?! Do you not overestimate yourself or are you doing this because of the political moment in which we are having this discussion? Come on, take it easy. No one's rights are limited. Anyone who wishes can watch the meetings of parliament, absolutely anyone. Then what's all the fuss about? What are we wasting so much time discussing this point for? I think we should still give ourselves an assessment that we can't force people to see what they don't want. Excuse me, there are a few TV stations that bury us in the most watched times with Turkish TV shows, but to tie me up, I'm not going to watch those TV shows. I'll close my eyes. The same applies to people who do not want to see parliament. Why do you think there's some way to cast a curtain on Parliament's work? Finally, let me ask you the question quite frankly: what are you here for? So they can show you on TV? [[Laughter, cheering, applause in GERB and OP.]] Aren't we all here at the will of our constituents, of the Bulgarian people, to do the work? Should all your efforts go into the steam in the whistle? Shouldn't the steam be directed into the movement of the steamboat, which must carry the corresponding loads? It is the duty of the National Assembly, not to look at us, to see us, to make noise, and then to ask the relatives: Did I look okay? Was I okay? Was I aggressive? Did you remember me by anything? That's all I can say. By the way, it really must be considered very seriously, if you think practically and want Parliament to have the corresponding coverage, you should consider the realization of this channel, as there are in all other parliaments channels of parliament where not only meetings are broadcast, but also committees. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u299	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u300	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I will propose to Mr. Simeonov to make a new contribution to the work of the Bulgarian National Television and when the Prime Minister of the Republic, the President of the Republic, wants to give statements, not to confuse their programming activities, their statements to be broadcast on BNT 2 and mandatory on TV SKAT. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u301	Come in for a second line, Mrs. Dukova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u302	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Simeonov, I am tempted by your speech to make this line and not to make a statement for two reasons. First of all, because you're a media man and you know about these things. Secondly, because when we talk about media, we need to have basic knowledge of them. Thirdly, because when we talk about BNT 1 and 2, we need to know that this is a national broadcaster, both one and the other. Fourth, because the multi-ex coverage across Bulgaria, as they said, is completely everywhere in Bulgaria. But why are we talking about this? Firstly, because we underestimate the intelligence of the spectator and his desire at what point, when, on which channel to watch what is happening in parliament. Apropo, behind the standard and behind the status of the Assembly began to go down with your management.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u303	Please, a line to Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u304	Media policy is a very serious thing, and no one denies it, and no one's covering for it. But here, Mr. Simeonov, we are talking about two more things: one group, a group formed, I will call it a Komsomol drive, which is ready to talk about any subject in this Komsomol team. What amazes me? Not so much knowledge and ignorance of media policy as the way and the ability to distinguish yourself in a very inadequate way from the subject behind the scenes. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u305	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u306	And the answer to that backstage, how it's done...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u307	The weather, Mrs. Dukova!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u308	...who's doing it and all of a sudden we're covering it up with a media blackout.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u309	The weather, Mrs. Dukova! [[People from BSP for Bulgaria are banging on banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u310	Colleagues, it doesn't look like you. Your superiors say you have the backroom and we won't allow it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u311	Thank you, Mrs. Dukova. Mrs. Krasteva, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u312	The function of the Bulgarian National Television as a public media is defined by law and in order to perform this function it receives a budget. There can be no higher priority than ensuring publicity and control over the work of the executive including, than this public television. There's no competition that's a priority. We're not talking about who wants to see what. So in parliamentary control, we don't demonstrate ourselves on TV or on TV. In parliamentary control we speak on behalf of our constituents. You can't restrict that right. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u313	Thank you. Mr. Simeonov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u314	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Genov, I am absolutely in your position. I see no reason why the President and the Prime Minister's statements should be on Channel 1 but not on BNT 2. There's nothing wrong with that. Nothing bad! Because, I repeat, perhaps caught up in our parliamentary everyday life, somehow we have flown a lot, we have believed that we are the most important and most important in this life and all our actions must be reduced to the knowledge of the ordinary Bulgarian citizen. Why don't we ask ourselves if this interests the Bulgarian citizen? But that's another question. But then we got away with it. Skat won't work without money. If they pay, we'll air them on Scat. You know what? It's a business matter. [[Noise and lines.]] To Ms. Krasteva with this beautiful Christian name Krasteva, which comes from the Holy Cross a member of the DPS. BNT receives a budget, but does not receive such a budget to spend on what is currently wasted. Because I don't know if you're aware of this, but I'm a professional, and I can tell you what it means to keep you ready every second to turn the parliamentary room on. Look at all the cameras. Look at all the people. They change and so on and so forth. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u315	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u316	Something went wrong that there could be no higher priority than covering the actions of the executive and so on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u317	Control, control!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u318	For control. Okay, maybe I didn't get it. See what, in all the journalism textbooks here there are people journalists, it is written that politics is not the primary event people are interested in. First is economics, the budget and the personal family budget. Secondly, there are health issues and their children, in third place education, and somewhere further back is politics. Do not imagine that we are doing such important and important things that need to be reflected, especially issues related to regional problems, three-quarters of parliamentary issues are related to rural problems and their place is precisely in BNT 2, which has exactly such a function to reflect regional news. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u319	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. The speech is given by the people's representative Veselin Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u320	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, at the will of the Bulgarian people, the Parliamentary Group of Volja., composed and representing the Bulgarian pragmatists, technocrats and patriots, is part of what is currently happening here. In the break we all had, we all got together, we watched, we wondered, and with very small differences some said about five, others for six or seven, but no more than 10 minutes we united around that what we did for a few hours here, if it were up to us, in the same quality or better, we would have done it in no more than these five or ten minutes, as I said earlier. I will take advantage of previous speakers, some of whom have mentioned: "This is another crime. Yes, we also believe that around this we are united that this is another crime towards the interests of the Bulgarian people and meaningless spending of Bulgarian money. I think it is good to show this so that the Bulgarian citizens in the next elections can make a clearer choice for whom they vote. However, so that we can protect our salaries, because I think some are just here to waste their time and take another paycheck, I will concentrate you a little earlier on a more important topic, namely art. 67. I'm doing it now so that you can concentrate and have the opportunity to prepare. This is the member who is more important that the decisions in the Bulgarian National Assembly could not be taken, which we all say should be 240 and insist that they should not be reduced, should be taken by a majority of 61 or 62 votes. Prepare yourselves, the serious debates will be when we get to art. 67, not those things we've talked about so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u321	- What's the line? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u322	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues! Here was made an extremely false statement and we have to say it immediately "BNT 2 is not caught everywhere in Bulgaria. In the Kardzhali region, in the Rhodopes BNT 2 simply does not. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In essence, the transfer of parliamentary control to BNT 2 is a way of stopping the transparency in which I heard everyone swear here last week. It is also a way to stop freedom of speech as well as to speak it. Today came out a ranking that Bulgaria is last in freedom of speech in the European Union. We are very often fixed in the media, but Parliament today makes its contribution to the suppression of this freedom. But when I think about it, GERB and the United patriots have already been able to break all their promises.! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u323	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. For a replica, the People's Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u324	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Simov, I do not know how you know that in Kardzhali you do not catch BNT 2 because you do not even know the number of municipalities that cover Kardzhali region. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u325	This has no bearing on the number of municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u326	Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. If you have stepped in every single place and in every municipality as I have traveled, you will know that there is a range and people can watch both BNT 2, as well as BNT 1, and any TV that they choose to watch. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u327	For a second line, the People's Representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u328	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Simov, joking, if I may say so, a rookie in parliament, unfortunately, a rookie in technology. Multiplex radiation provides coverage all over the country and what you said is not true. If you don't believe me, I can quote the letter of the Director-General of the Bulgarian National Television of 17 March 2015, which says the following: The distribution of BNT 2 covers the entire territory of the country and is carried out by all major regional suppliers. BNT 2 is distributed digitally, making the channel accessible to a maximum number of spectators. Last, for your information it is also broadcast in Cable TV SKAT everywhere in its networks. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Finally, I couldn't understand, hopefully from your backdrop, what does it have to do with the broadcast of parliamentary control on Friday and freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u329	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u330	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My line is to Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u331	Mr. Simeonov can't.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u332	To Simov, I'm sorry. I had one for Mr. Simeonov, but whatever. I agree with much of your speech, but you have also missed one thing. Why did they offer it after all if there's no problem? Why is it being offered? Why didn't they let BNT's management decide which channel on Channel 1 or Channel 2? This is a question, if you will, purely commercial.. they decide why they should have this censorship? You didn't ask that. And yet you did not ask: is this in line with the citizens' understanding of the European development of Bulgaria, because in Europe I do not know about such censorship? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u333	Have you ever been to the European Parliament?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u334	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Simov, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u335	Ms. Karayancheva, your lectures on geography at the Kardzhali region have been useful to me. But I don't know if you were in the village of Minzuhar, Black Eyes, where BNT 2 didn't. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In many other places BNT 2 is not broadcast. Many cable operators do not insert BNT 2 into their paths. Maybe we should think about some regulation here. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] Perhaps we should oblige them to insert BNT 2 on the condition that they will broadcast parliamentary control, but to claim that BNT is everywhere that is simply not true. Secondly, how will the limitation of one person's ability to look at parliamentary control of freedom of speech be applied is more than clear. Limiting a person's ability to see what kind of madness a government does. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u336	Thank you, dear Mr. Simov. Are there any other statements? Here you are, the People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u337	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have spent a lot of time on this topic and once again the colleagues on the left have not been informed and are not familiar. I will provide you with the two copies of the letters, which are from BNT and here is written absolutely everything, and there is no possibility of any restrictions, because this will give greater completeness and even here in one of the letters it says that they can develop a concept with which they can actually satisfy the entire interest of all Bulgarian citizens. I will provide you with these two copies so that you can actually read them or those who express themselves to consider what is written as a position of the Bulgarian National Television. Let us now put an end to this subject and move on to a vote, because indeed, if all this becomes known to our constituents, they will say:... what have they been saying all day? They only talked about whether to be on BNT 1 or BNT 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u338	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. For the first line, the People's Representative Anton Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u339	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, letters from BNT and a request from BNT for release of this air time are available not from yesterday. We've had these conversations in previous years. There's just a passing of this conversation right now. I will only go back to the fact that the same is not at all the same for two reasons. Here we are discussing whether multiplexes covered everywhere. There are hundreds of villages in Bulgaria where multiplexes are not enough, and that is known by everyone who deals with it. Another question is whether the cable stations that reach where the multiplexes do not reach are broadcasting Channel 1 and respectively whether they emit BNT 2. That question is also Mr. Simeonov, who, basically, is the importer of this thing very well knows it. He knows very well that it's not the same, but he's interested, because by not broadcasting on Channel 1 he's going to broadcast on Alpha or Scat. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] Both yours, until the time of the United Patriots. From here, however, more importantly, we are not talking about who comes to it, which is an important conversation. We're talking about access to one program or another. We know what the viewing rate of Channel 1 of BTV or Nova TV is. These are the most watched TV stations in Bulgaria. We know what BNT 2's viewing rate is. The people who include BNT 2, the channel layout of Channel 1 is always first, BNT 2 is for example 7, 8 or 15 depending on the cable operator. Access to BNT 2 and Channel 1 is completely different and you understand it very well. You know, that's why you do it! You don't do it because you don't understand. You understand and you do it because you want to limit access to parliamentary control.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u340	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. For a second line, the People's Representative Philip Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u341	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, it is nice to give BNT as you gave us these two letters from them, the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 They must have read it, but since you give these things away, it is good to give it to them. There it is clearly written that it is broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television "Neither Channel 1" nor Channel 2 is mentioned. This is their opportunity, but the attempt to veil censorship with these letters simply doesn't pass. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u342	Is there a third line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u343	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Both you and us and everyone here in this room knows what this is about. It's about the fact that there's concern of power from publicity. Nothing else. Whatever we're talking about, whatever we're twisting it, whatever arguments are broadcasting here, I think there's some concern, you must have some solution as to how to approach it. Let's vote. But if you consult the Bulgarian citizens on the street here to come out with one camera, you will hear their answer. People are used to it because the prestige is in BNT 1, parliament to introduce itself through the Bulgarian National Television "Channel 1. Everything else is fairy tales through which in some way we have to convince the public that one thing is just what, and it's not that. The truth is very clear, no matter what we say. This is one of the problems of the National Assembly because we come out here, we present a thesis, and this is how we present it, which is not what it really is. Do you understand? That's a problem! And so is the Law, and with this vicious practice it must be broken. Let's move on, if we may, to a vote, it's clear what this is about. There's nothing to lie about.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u344	When the speakers are finished, we'll pass. Thank you, Mr. Ebatine. Will you use the hole, Mr. Tsvetanov? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u345	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The colleagues on the left, the only thing we've learned from this pointless debate, is that you made a free commercial for SKAT and Alpha. [[Radio.]] Why did you have to do that? Please, let only BNT remain and there be transmitted all these things that are related to the parliamentary activity "BNT 2." [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u346	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u347	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Simeonov and I are fellow citizens and I am a rookie in this National Assembly, but I remember 2011. You should also remember because you were a municipal councillor in Burgas. Then GERB already had an absolute majority in the municipal council. They did not need the votes of NFSB and they undertook a change in the rules of the municipal council by cutting off the rights of local television stations to direct the sessions of the Municipal Council. It is clear that at the time this was the correct position. "The municipal councillors of the Patriotic Front, supported by the BSP, stood in the principle position that this limits the awareness of the Burgas and the Burgas voters. And then it was the right position. I notice that in a few years there is evolution in your opinion and opinion and I do not understand it. It is clear that if we move the transmission of parliamentary control from BNT 1 to BNT 2, it will limit the access to information of not a small part of Bulgarian citizens and voters and I do not think it is correct. Therefore, my call to you is either to withdraw the proposal or to correct your position. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u348	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Personal explanation of the people representative Valeri Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u349	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Tishev, you recall a story of slight inaccuracies. First of all, I wasn't on the municipal council at the time. I was elected, but I didn't join the municipal council. I realized there's no point in such a ratio of power to waste my time and years. [[(GERB lines: Is there now?]] Now it makes sense. [[Laughter]] With regard to the termination of the broadcast in question, the truth is as follows. At that time the access to cameras was terminated not only of SKAT, but also of other television stations in the hall of the municipal council, but an internet signal was automatically made available. A separate channel was released from which all televisions, including SKAT, were taking the signal and broadcasting it. You know that thing, don't you? Now it's not about stopping the broadcast, it's shifted from one program to another. Whoever wants it can get it back where it wants it. Whoever wants to watch it can watch it whenever they want, including there are options for returning the signal with missed hours and events to watch. It's just this whole discussion is pretty much pointless, it's barren, it doesn't make any sense. It's a different situation. Nobody's limiting anything now. And then it wasn't like that. I'll finally tell you the last one. From a commercial point of view, from a business point of view, I can tell you what happened to the broadcast of the session of the Burgas Municipal Council on Skat, I speak. A few months later, we stopped him. Do you know what a sociological survey has shown among the viewers of the SKAT TV audience? They weren't just looking at him. I hope this doesn't happen to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u350	Thank you, dear Mr. Simeonov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u351	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The elementaryisation of the debate is clear by GERB, because they have always tried to do so, but in a parliamentary state the most important body is parliament, and the national television channel 1 is the television that is watching it the most Bulgarians. This is Bulgarian television, not private television. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There is nothing more normal than Parliament and parliamentary control, which, in the Constitution, is a way to control ministers, to be broadcast on Channel 1. I'll give you an example that BNT 2's rating is below 1% and Channel 1's rating is above 10%. [[Reply from the National Representative Snezana Dukova.]] Really what you're trying to do...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u352	Please don't call.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u353	Mrs. Dukova, I understand your inflammation if we can listen to each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u354	Don't call from the spot. Do not engage in dialogue with the Chamber, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u355	What you want to do... (a line from the National Representative Snezhana Dukova, to actually wash your hands and say: "Yes, it is given on the Bulgarian National...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u356	Mrs. Dukova, don't call from the gym.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u357	...but really people don't look at parliamentary control. I'll tell you why. In the past the National Assembly Mr. Boyko Borisov regularly ran away from parliamentary control. There were cases in which he discovered singing monuments, but on important topics he ran away from parliament. Mrs. Lilyana Pavlova from the Ministry of Regional Development for months delayed the answers. All these violations that were done by the chairman then Tsacheva were hidden, but, unfortunately, people were seeing and it was shameful for all of us to be running away from control. And now you just want to escape the uncomfortable situation, mass Bulgarians watching you run away from the uncomfortable issues. And I'm gonna end up with this. I understand why the patriots propose it, because in this mandate of the Forty-fourth National Assembly they will bring out the hot potatoes of the outrage that awaits the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian state and Bulgarian democracy. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u358	Thank you, Mr. Mirchev. I do not know if Mrs. Pavlova will take advantage of her right to a personal explanation, but since Mr. Borisov and Mrs. Tsacheva cannot, I must tell you that Mr. Borisov did not come to parliamentary control because you did not ask him questions. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Revelations: "Eee! ")]] Anyone who doesn't believe can check it out is the truth. [[Loud noise.]] Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u359	Mr. Chairman, fellow Members! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I will turn to you and to those who spoke before you, because here 10-15 people speak the same thing about censorship. First, use the words correctly. For censorship, he can talk a TV show, he can talk a show, and then he can give press conferences. A parliamentary group, when it starts talking about being censored on Friday at parliamentary control, means it's either turned into some kind of yellow edition that you've become lately or into a show...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u360	Please, Mr. Bikov, choose your expressions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u361	...including Mr. Mirchev. This is where you come up with the heroic posture that they won't hear you. There are dozens more TV stations, media in which you are all present, give interviews and people are well acquainted with your positions. The fact that on Friday from 11:00 to 2:00 will not be able to see you in BNT 1 but will see you in BNT 2 will in no way violate democracy. Let's use the words as intended, not here to go out like the Thirty Congress of the BCP and experience ourselves as Tsola Dragoycheva in front of some... and do theaters. [[Noise.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u362	Thank you. For the second line, Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. For the third Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u363	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Mirchev, I was somewhat relieved in my line of speech because that is exactly what I wanted to tell you. You have not made the emphasis that parliamentary control is important with its questions indeed, but is even more important with the ministers who go out and answer. And that's what they're trying to hide. We don't want to be on TV asking questions! We want the ministers to respond to their people how they govern, and that is why you should probably start with this! And I'm going to pay attention to one more thing. Pypplemmetry, which, you said, is absolutely accurate, yes, below 1% is BNT 2, 10% and slightly above is Channel 1. Perhaps some colleagues have an interest in developing BNT 2 in order to be more visible, to raise its pyplemmetry, perhaps some there expect a slightly lower pricer to take external productions so that they can then benefit from this television time? You see, the problem here is much more complex. Therefore, I ask you very much, when you come out for your duplicate, explain to colleagues that parliamentary control is not important with the questions being asked. They're questions we don't ask, the people ask through us, they ask us! He is important in what ministers answer. That's what our colleagues are trying to hide! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u364	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. For the third line, Mr. Yordan Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u365	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Mirchev! There is no need for such high and heavy words: democracy, the country and so on, when it comes to quite obvious things. It's enough to ask even one of those who replicated you, Mr. Bikov, I don't see where he's standing, to look at him. Just this question is enough: why didn't National Television broadcast on its second channel when that bunch of paid circus guys protested against the Oresharski office, but it was transmitting on Channel 1?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u366	Is that a line to Mr. Mirchev?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u367	Yes, it is to him to ask this question to Mr. Bikov and to those who now offer the second channel as equivalent to the first. Then why didn't you ask them? And it was like there was a revolution going on on Channel One. [[GERB lines.]] You know the answer to that question, don't you? Because the two channels are so uneven.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u368	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u369	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ermenkov, indeed parliamentary control is an arena in which we ask questions to voters and ministers answer. And that is why they want to hide the ministers, as they did in the previous National Assembly. I would also like to answer Mr. Bikov, although his questions were pretty frivolous. Censor is not on one party or another, Mr. Bikov. Censorship is on information and on truth. That's what you're trying to hide. It is a constitutional obligation for the parliamentary control of the Council of Ministers and ministers to be controlled through the National Assembly. And this should be available to a maximum number of Bulgarian citizens, which can be done through Channel 1 of BNT. And I understand your enthusiasm in a political-historical flashback, but I think a political nomad doesn't fit to classify people who are behind the principles...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u370	Please, no qualifications, Mr. Mirchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u371	...what and how they do. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u372	Thank you. Are there any other statements? Before that, a personal explanation from Mr. Bikov. [[(Strong noise and shouting:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u373	It's happened to me ten times...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u374	If you hadn't called it a political nomad, I wouldn't have given him the floor. [[Strong noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If you'd chosen your language, I wouldn't have given him that right. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u375	You, as the People's Court, have driven it, man will not...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u376	Mr. Bikov, please sit down.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u377	Okay, come on.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u378	I am making a remark to the MP Stoyan Mirchev. [[Applause from the back rows of BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yes, Mr. Zarkov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u379	Excuse me, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for giving me the floor, but I would like to challenge the remark you made.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u380	Just tell me what you want the floor for.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u381	I'd like to challenge the remark you made...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u382	This is not the way to challenge my remark. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u383	The manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u384	I listen to you then in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u385	You're not showing the same archin I object to. The phrase "political nomad" was not aimed at insulting Mr. Bikov, whom we respect and with whom we debated [[GERB lines]] , in order to determine a phenomenon for which there are specific texts in the Rules of Procedure which we are voting on. We banned such phenomena there. So please very much withdraw the note you made to Mr. Mirchev. A lot of people overreacted today, and I was offended, too, and I didn't get involved. [[shouts: "Oooh!" by GERB]] Because I honestly tell you, Tsvetan Tsvetanov to hold me accountable for human rights, it's like Torquemada suing Cinderella. [[Applause and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u386	You have the right to challenge the punishment accordingly, this is not the way. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u387	Dear Mr. Chairman, first of all, I am not offended because there is no member of the BSP who can offend me. [[Applause from GERB.]] I am never offended by people who have done such things and look like your predecessors and some of you. And to Mr. Tsonev, I would like to make a remark, he called those who...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u388	That's the way to lead!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u389	Okay, the way you're leading it. I'm not offended, and I hope so. [[strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Your flying circus will continue in the same way because it is in our favor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u390	Others in the manner of conduct? In a procedure it was what was said, so if you want something to say in the manner of conduct you should. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u391	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Out of respect for young people and respect for your mother, I will not take advantage of the right to tell you the truth about you. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because when you are in plenary, when you stand out of this high tribune, your personal attacks leave them somewhere else or where you have not solved your personal problems. Here is Parliament and here we have to make laws and work in the interests of Bulgaria and society! If you want to work for your personal interests, you can do it somewhere else, but not here in plenary! Thank you. [[Woman cheering from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u392	We accept that it is a remark in the manner of conduct that I have allowed you to say this thing from the stands. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u393	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Obviously, the debate on this provision and on the proposals was very heated. That is why I am proposing that it would be a sin after this debate not to end with a vote. I ask for an extension of plenary time until we have finished voting on this provision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u394	A reverse opinion? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u395	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, let's follow the rules. Outside the time of the plenary session Mr. Kirilov proposed an extension of the same. That's unacceptable. I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-04-26.u396	Are there any other statements? I'm closing the debate and today's session. Vote tomorrow at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
