ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u1	Good morning, fellow Members of the National Assembly! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] There are no new requests for the period from 1 to 7 September 2017. Written answers: - from the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; by the Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - from the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov; by the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer; by the Minister of Health Nikolay Petrov to a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova. We can start with today: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First question from the MPs Nikolay Tishev, Todor Baychev, Petar Kanev and Dimitar Stoyanov, about public discontent with the closure of the beach. The question is to Nikolina Angelkova, Minister of Tourism. You have the floor, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u2	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! During the last summer season in the public domain a discussion was opened regarding the renting of the beach. A group of free beachers united in the Initiative Committee are making various accusations. Moreover, the question relates to the procedure carried out and the environmental rules which have been violated, which have taken place and followed up the actions of the public authorities. In this regard, I ask you to answer the following question: are there any violations in the procedure for renting the beach at Delphine? Is there an option to resolve the conflict and is it possible otherwise to satisfy the claims of the free beachers? Also: don't you think that instead of carrying out some kind of butaforn checks and controls by the senior management of the Ministry of Tourism during the summer season on Bulgarian beaches, about which one day the entire public administration knows in advance, respectively the tenants and concessionaires on the beaches and, naturally, the next day there are no violations, is it better for the Ministry of Tourism to take a legislative initiative and regulate this case with the so-called nudist beaches? Whenever there are white spots in the legislation, such problems arise. You know that at Delphine beach there was also physical self-harm and mutual accusations of both sides. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. Minister Angelkova, you have three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, Mr. Stoyanov, Mr. Kanev, Mr. Baychev! On 28 March 2017, an order was issued by the Minister of Staff for Tourism to tender with a secret tender for renting at the sea beach camping. The procedure for renting out the sea beach was conducted without registered violations and with respect to the principles of transparency. The published documents are not appealed within the statutory 14-day period before the Supreme Administrative Court on their legality. There are no grounds for both allegations concerning infringements committed during the organisation and conduct of the tender and for the subsequent conclusion of a lease. Under the current regulations of the sea beach lease contract, each visitor has the right to use 50% of its active area for free and free beaching. The tenant is obliged to place an indicative sign with the designation of the areas for active beach area, for the free deployment of beach accessories by visitors. During the summer season, the Ministry of Tourism regularly conducts checks throughout the Black Sea coast, observing whether the 50% free zone ratio is respected, whether the moving objects comply with the scheme agreed by the Office and whether there are rescue and medical stations. In the case of alerts outside the competence of the institution, we shall signal the relevant authorities. Regarding those defined in your question as free beaching citizens in Bulgaria, there is no legal regulation regarding the practice of nudism. The current regulation governing the management of the sea beaches is not explicitly prohibited on the Black Sea coast, there is no explicit order regarding the use of sea beaches by visitors in terms of their appearance during relaxation, rest or beach. The only legal regulation which could be applied in such cases is the adopted regulation of the municipality concerned, in this case the regulation of Tsarevo Municipality, which is related to the protection of public order and the prohibition of immoral conduct and violation of decency in public places. In this sense, the Ministry of Tourism could not side with the argument you have cited between a tenant and beaching citizens, in so far as there is no explicit and explicit regulation on the matter. However, we fully support dialogue between the two parties. In addition, the Ministry of Tourism has launched amendments to the Black Sea Coast Construction Act for the grouping of beaches that have been published for public discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Angelkova. You have the opportunity to reply, fellow Members. Here you go, Mr. Kanev. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u6	Dear Minister! My question is a little different.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u7	Madam Minister!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u8	Excuse me. Madam Minister! I'm not going to dwell on the fact that the permission to rent on the beach belongs to the minister of the service. I will not comment on the extent to which the citizens of Ahtopol and the resters are doing for the fact that the mayor of Ahtopol committed a violation by granting the right to drive a road in the park. I will not comment on the extent to which the human rights authorities will rule on the cutting of vegetation in the approach to the beach. I am interested in another question.. keep it in mind in the future when examining the Law on Tourism. Why do we say "we" when I mean the government right now, and maybe before that, we are constantly causing problems and turning people against us? Who needed to rent out a beach for 12,000. lv. A year? Who needed this little beach that borders on a huge seven-mile beach to annoy people and give it away? Why didn't anyone in the last five years ask why, for the neighboring beach, six or seven kilometers of Ahtopol had accumulated the concessionaires' debts of over 100 thousand. lv. and no one sought them out, neither you as a minister, nor the former colleagues as a deputy. ministers of economy, energy and tourism? When do we stop making enemies of ourselves and the state? That's my question. Who needed the dedication of this little beach, and why? Why didn't anyone take account of the previous concessionaires who didn't pay off the state by over 100,000? lv.? My question is principled and I ask you very much in the future Law on Tourism slowly and calmly to discuss it together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. Mrs. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get me a jacket in two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u10	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kanev! The decision to lease or concession shall be taken as appropriate and whether or not the contract expires on a beach by the Minister in the relevant period. In this case, I cannot explain why the minister of the service decided that a tender should be launched for renting on the beach-camping. With regard to sanctioning, I can assure you that we are extremely uncompromising and penalties have been imposed, as well as bank guarantees have been adopted, and that concession contracts are suspended where infringements show that these actions should be taken. Apart from that, as I explained in my presentation, there is a change of the Law on the Device, i.e. a public discussion about a future amendment of the Law on the Construction of the Black Sea Coast for grouping the beaches. I think it is there that when we define the relevant signs and characteristics for a group that we can think about in the fourth group that we have proposed, a group of beaches with special characteristics such as the natural ones, to regulate and those where a certain group of people want to beach in a certain way. I rely on your cooperation and cooperation as always. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u11	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Next is a question from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, Nikolay Tishev, Petar Kanev and Todor Bajchev on the financial results of the Sunny Beach and vision for its development You're welcome to develop the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, Madam Secretary! My question is related again to the resort complex "Sunny Beach" and its unseemly financial condition. Against the backdrop of the ever crowded with tourists, Sunny Beach, which has already become a kind of megapolis and not just a resort complex, it turns out that Sunny Beach has recorded a loss of nearly 1 million. lv. for 2016, or to be correct, the size is 993 thousand. lv. At the same time, statistics account for growth of tourists and accommodations, i.e. there is an increase in revenues from the tourism sector, more people have come, more money has been spent in tourism. Despite what has been said so far, however, the data from the financial statements of Sunny Beach is showing that in the last three years the Company is at a loss. Although its main activity is related to maintaining a common infrastructure in the complex, since 2010, the Company has not realised revenue from infrastructures and charges. The reason is a conflict with the owners of tourist sites in the complex that refuse to pay. There have been repeated negotiations so far, but they have given no result. We need to clarify that in recent years the Sunny Beach JSC has virtually no revenue: 75% of its capital is held by the Ministry of Tourism, 10% of the Sunny Beach Dear Minister, my question is this. For another year the Bulgarian tourism business reports a serious growth in natural and valuable terms. Against the backdrop of the profitable private tourism sector, it sounds an amazing and surprising company with a state participation in the project, which provides for the development of the project, to realise losses, and for 2016 they amount to 993 thousand. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u13	The weather, Mr. Baichev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u14	In this regard, it is our question: what is the financial situation of Sunny Beach JSC? Are the owners of hotels, restaurants and attractions correct to the state company? What is the vision of the Ministry of Tourism for the development of Sunny Beach and the complex as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u15	Here you are, Minister Angelkova. You have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u16	Mr. Tishev, Mr. Stoyanov, Mr. Kanev, Mr. Baychev! For the normal course of every summer tourist season of the Sunny Beach is replaced obligations to manage, serve and maintain the infrastructure of the complex, which includes: landscaping areas, streets, alleys, sidewalks, plumbing and sewerage network, street and alley lighting, optical video surveillance network. In recent years, the Company has been increasingly committed to ensuring the security and calmness of tourists through funding for the secondment of the required number of police officers from inside the country. In this regard, the Sunny Beach JSC, as owner of the infrastructure, should provide funds to cover all necessary costs for the maintenance of the infrastructure. On the other hand, all owners of hotels, shops, restaurants, attractions and others working on the territory of the complex and enjoying the infrastructure owned by the Company pay the local taxes and fees due in the municipality of Nessebar, and there are no deductions from the taxes and fees collected by the municipality to the Sunny Beach. In a similar way the owners of properties and sites in the complex "Sunny Beach" "Sunchev East" is charging fees for the consumption of water on the water supply and sewerage network, owned by the Sunny Beach" JSC, only and solely of the "Viki" Burgas, without being charged for the use of the water consumed through the assets of the Company. The company's main revenues in 2016 are revenues from services provided, revenues from the sales of electricity. energy and industrial water and the sale of fixed assets. The revenue from the services provided consists of rentals and access rights, use of transport infrastructure by third parties, traders, an optical network and others of a similar nature. Their total amount was realised in 2016. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 224 thousand. lv. For the same period of 2015, the revenue generated from these services amounted to 1 million. 177,000. BGN, or as of 31 December 2016, this type of revenue increased by 47 thousand. lv. I think it is necessary to note that only for 2016. "Sunny Beach" AD has paid 300 thousand dollars in funds. lv. excluding VAT for posted police officers on the territory of the complex "Sunny Beach" comprising daily, travel and accommodation expenses. The same are posted to ensure the safety and tranquility of citizens residing on the territory of the Complex during the active summer tourist season for 2016. In the accounting year 2016 Sunny Beach is a positive financial result before taking into account depreciation costs, which amounts to 301 thousand. lv. The financial loss amounts to 993 thousand. lv. and is the result of the significantly high amount of depreciation costs resulting from the large amount of assets owned by the Company. For example, Sunny Beach has plumbing and sewerage facilities with a reporting value of nearly 40 million. BGN, the cost of depreciation of these facilities amounted to 360 thousand. lv. on an annual basis. The company does not yet make any income from them, as the company is operated by the Bulgarian Ministry of Finance and Burgas and between the two companies there is a legal dispute. Regarding our vision for the development of the complex, I assure you that with consistent action in its policies, the Ministry of Tourism initiates changes to the Tourism Act to set out a legal framework regulating the status of our national resorts in the form of a modern legal base, unifying construction, maintenance and development of tourist infrastructure on the territory of national resorts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u17	Thank you, Minister Angelkova. You have the opportunity to reply, fellow Members. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u18	Dear Minister, we have listened carefully to the points of support. We didn't learn anything new, but our question is: what are we going to do from now on with Sunny Beach? At the risk of getting into a delicate theme of relations within the government itself, I want to know what your opinion is on the proposal of Valeri Simeonov, Deputy Prime Minister, on the future of the Company itself. The company is one of those appendixes that is absolutely meaningless and unnecessary. We all know that. And we don't know that now, and we don't know that from your department! The company is a feeder of the so-called boarders. We know that too! From this point on, the question arises: will the scheme continue for years for the companies working on the territory of Sunny Beach to pay taxes in the municipality of Nessebar? They do not invest a crack in the municipality, in the infrastructure of Sunny Beach. First, there is no right and second, there is no desire because the infrastructure is owned by a commercial company. You have to get out of this enchanted circle! You remember that not once have we discussed this topic at both a meeting and a hearing and a blitz audition in our Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. I return to the question again, Madam Minister: what is your opinion? What will change and what will happen? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u19	Mrs. Minister, you have the opportunity for a dot. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u20	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kanev! We've been running two jobs since last year. On the one hand, we are currently finalising the legal and financial analysis regarding the possible steps about what should happen to the Sunny Beach, i.e. whether the assets should be transferred to the municipality, whether the shares should be transferred to the municipality. A detailed analysis must be made of how much the State must pay to the minority shareholders. You know that this is a mixed-participation company and also other legal forms that should be discussed with stakeholders. I hope that, at the latest within a month, we can offer your attention in the Commission the possible options and steps that should be taken. On the other hand, with the changes in the Tourism Act, which we have also presented to your attention and are ahead, we provide for regulation of the status of national resorts, which are the image of Bulgarian tourism so that there can be clear rules for all activities that are carried out on their territory. These are the two basics we're working on right now. I hope that the Bill at the end of October and the beginning of November can be presented officially to your Members of the National Assembly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u21	Let us thank the Minister of Tourism for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions and questions to Rumen Porozhanov, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. He will answer a question from the National Representative Veselin Mareshki about the state fund's personnel policy. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u22	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The state of the State Fund is important because of the important economic and public interest and because of its policy and activities related to the absorption of European funds. It is no coincidence that I ask this question that I clearly have information about unlawful acts previously committed in the Fund. How many employees in the State Fund.............................. and in what position were fired, apparently unlawful, subsequently reinstated by the competent court, and, nevertheless, again, fired? And as a result of this illegal activity of employees in the State Fund, what amounts have been paid from the state budget for this unlawful exemption, in fact paid by all of us, by all Bulgarian citizens, for that someone simply does not like someone? This is not only in the Agricultural Ministry, it is not only in the Agricultural Ministry, it is in the entire state machine. In this case, I take the opportunity to address this question to you. Secondly, what is your vision in particular and what are your intentions regarding the personnel provision in this regard of the State Fund for Agriculture with a view to the inefficiency of its actions and the non-compliance with similar future practices?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u23	You have the floor for an answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u24	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mareshki! The State Fund is structured in central management by 28 regional departments, whose number of staff is currently 1546 stats. A number of structural changes in the administration of the Fund have been made for the period 2009-2017. Order No 99 of 2015 amended and supplemented the Fund's Rules of Procedure by making a real reduction of the number, as well as optimizing the functions of the administrative units for the purpose of more efficient and efficient implementation of their activities. The total number of staff is reduced from 1660 stats to 1546, which represents a reduction of 114 stats or optimizes the number by 9.3%. Legal relations with the employees who held the reduced posts have been terminated in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the Civil Service Officer and the Labour Code. In 2016, four employees of the State Fund were reimbursed and payments for 23 thousand were paid. lv. In addition, 14 thousand have been paid. lv. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment The Fund employs employees who have acquired lasting knowledge and skills to carry out its inherent specific activity. Keeping them is essential for the development of the administration. These are employees who create and deal with important information and knowledge for the Fund. In accordance with the national rules and rules of the European Union concerning the actions and duties of the staff of the Fund, it is of particular importance that adequate measures be taken that eliminate the risk of irregularities. The Fund's management forms and implements a policy to avoid staff turnover by improving the working environment and working conditions. Good remuneration, adequately achieved results, opportunity for training and development in the sector. Of course, you mentioned appointments that seem to be disturbing, but be assured that this is not about liking or dislike, but about fulfilling official duties and professional treatment. I would just like to add that in July there was an accreditation mission for the Fund from the European Commission, which ended, I would say, successfully, without finding significant deficiencies in the work and procedures of the State Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u25	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. Here's a line for you, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u26	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! It is clear that we have judicial decisions which recover illegally fired employees from the State Fund. We will not take responsibility from you for the past actions of your predecessors, but we will only use the case to make our warning. We will closely monitor your personnel policy and in the first case in which there is unlawful dismissal of an employee from the State Fund. I don't wish you to go that far, but we prevent you from giving this warning. We will monitor your activities in the chamber policy... if there are purges, races, dismissals, unfair and illegal above all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Would you like a douche? You don't want to take this opportunity. There is a question from the National Representative Krastina Taskova on the criteria for assessing the project proposals under the Rural Development Programme. Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister Porozhanov! Pursuant to Community legislation governing the implementation of the European Rural Development Fund, specific requirements are set out to ensure sufficient awareness of applicants and publicity regarding the criteria for assessing projects. The provision of information on these criteria will undoubtedly contribute to the quality preparation of project proposals and will provide one of the options for reducing the processing time of applications. It is known, however, that the administrative checks of the State Fund........................... until approval of the project take a period which averages about one year, within the regulated time limits of 3 months. At present, the evaluation criteria for projects are made available to the public, as well as to the potential candidates concerned, immediately prior to the opening of the adoption of a specific measure, and they themselves take place within a month to a month and a half. We have often seen a change in the evaluation criteria after the completion of the receptions. These circumstances limit the possibilities for proper, targeted utilisation of the grant financial assistance granted under the Rural Development Programme. My question to you is: will you commit yourself as a minister to setting legal deadlines that require the provision of all criteria for evaluation of project proposals, including the regulations for implementing specific measures in a period of 45 to 60 days prior to the launch of the adoption? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u29	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Come in for an answer, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u30	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, it is essential for the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry that applicants for support under the Rural Development Programme be informed of the conditions of support. Interested parties are therefore given not only information but also a real opportunity to actively participate in the decision-making process when setting the conditions for support under the Programme. The principles for determining the selection criteria are included in the Rural Development Programme within it, which has been approved by the European Commission by decision of 26 May 2015. The specific selection criteria for each sub-measure of the Programme shall be discussed and approved by the Monitoring Committee, which is a collective body and shall include all key stakeholders in the field of rural development. The principle of balanced partnership is fundamental in determining the composition of the Committee in which the most representative partners for the relevant stakeholders are involved, namely competent national, regional, local and other public authorities; social partners; academic community; other organisations representing civil society; non-governmental organisations. The minutes of the Monitoring Committee containing the draft decisions, including the selection criteria, shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The selection criteria shall be part of the provisions of the draft regulation implementing the measure concerned, which shall be published for public consultation and under the Law on regulatory acts, public consultation shall be no less than 30 days. Within this time limit, potential candidates shall have the opportunity to become acquainted with and express their position on the conditions of support. The adoptions of applications shall start after promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union of the regulation implementing the relevant sub-measure. In summary, I would like to tell you that, from an information point of view, starting with the Monitoring Committee, which precedes absolutely any examination of a draft regulation, everyone is involved in it. The criteria and ways of applying the criteria are debated there. Subsequently, we have a minimum of 45 days from the point of view of the public discussion, the release of the regulation in the Official Gazette, then started with an order. What I would like to be clearly committed to and from this tribune is that there will be no reception order without prior preparation of the State Fund....................................... and............................ And on the other hand, there were no changes in the criteria. We will talk about changes in the criteria there has been no measure at all since the issue of an order for the submission of applications under an appropriate measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u31	Next up is Mrs. Taskova's line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. There are definitely changes in the criteria after the adoption and I will undertake to introduce you to these evidences. I regret that you cannot undertake to issue an order before the launch of the reception 45 to 60 days is the possibility of applying, since all you have explained is yes, this is the procedure, awareness can be achieved, but no one has time to monitor all the things that are happening in the country or in the Ministry of Agriculture, and there should be enough time after all this has been validated and can now submit their documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u33	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Here's your coat, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u34	The time limits which you mentioned at least 45 days are in fact included in the regulations and without an order to be issued on purpose. What will be expected for the next receptions will also be in measure 4.2, the next measure 7.2 will be for municipalities. The adoptions will be subject to the European Funds Act, and will be two months the process of adoption itself, and three months for municipalities, as we have investment proposals in them. So the Law will be strictly observed from the point of view of the time for filing the documents and, respectively, the time between ordering and launching the reception will be under clear rules laid down in the order for what the criteria are and how they will be interpreted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u35	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is asked again by the National Representative Krastina Taskova on food waste reduction. Here you are, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! On 16 May this year, representatives of the European Parliament adopted a Resolution on the reduction of food waste by 30% by 2025 and 50% by 2030 compared to 2014 in the Member States of the European Union by removing existing restrictions on food donation and eliminating confusion about labels by the best until...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After analyzing the data and proposed changes in policies in the European Union, please answer the following question: what measures does the Bulgarian government intend to take, and in particular your Ministry, in order to reduce food waste? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u37	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Here you are, Minister Porozhanov, for the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u38	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Ms. Taskova, the issue is relatively new, relevant and in the future we will have to work together on it. The main focus on prevention of food disposal must be at every stage of the food chain production, distribution and consumption. However, when a good meal falls away and remains unused for some reason, the best way is to ensure the high level of use of such food and to redistribute it for human consumption. What has been achieved so far: with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Value Added Tax, it is possible for operators donating food and complying with the Law to benefit from tax benefits for the donations made. In addition, the Food Act is complemented by the creation of Chapter Six "Nutritical Banking". The authorisation of a food bank operator, which has been in force since 1 January 2017. It detailed the procedure for issuing authorisation for a food bank operator. This is also developed in the new Law, which the government adopted and will be submitted to the National Assembly perhaps within two weeks, as we have specifics on it. Free from registration fee, according to the fee rate collected by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, are all natural and legal persons who carry out food banking or other social activities. Future guidelines can be characterised in the following directions: the measures taken by the European Commission aim to ensure that food waste prevention programmes are developed or developed at national level and all participants in the chain have received and received solid and reliable information on the problem. The highlights will be: to define a common definition of food waste as an important and measurable tool for statistical purposes; to increase public awareness and knowledge of the prevention of food waste would reduce a large part of the problem; cooperation between the countries in the food supply chain is also crucial; a common interpretation of labelled foods with terms of use before the best use of food; guidelines for the appropriate use of expired foods. It is also important to consider the possibility of a common framework for the use of expired foods for animal feeding. The real functioning of the Bulgarian Food Bank as an entity that collects and donates food to the needy during the shelf life is to help people and prevent the disposal and destruction of food already produced. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are actively working and supporting organisations that, following the Food Act and all safety rules laid down in European and national legal rules, contribute to reducing the disposal of good food. As I said in the beginning, these topics are yet to be worked out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u39	Thank you. People's representative Krastina Taskova for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u40	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Yes, the subject is really very up-to-date and new. I am pleased that you are saying that you are ready to work on the topics together, and I hope that we will be able to do the same by 50% by 2030.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u41	Thank you. Would you like a duplicate, Mr. Secretary? We continue with a question by the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Rumen Georgiev concerning problems with the implementation of sub-measure 7.2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Here you go, guys.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! By order of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, No RD-09-552 of 2 August 2016, a period has been fixed for the adoption of applications for support under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, sub-measure 7.2. This appropriation is intended to cover the following expenditure: What has imposed the amendment of Decree No 12 of 25 July 2016, as amended on 9 September 2016, setting out the conditions and procedure for the application of sub-measure 7.2, following the initiation of the procedure for receiving aid applications? Isn't this how the conditions for opaqueness and inequality of candidates are created? It should be borne in mind that the Decree on the application of sub-measure 7.2., which in practice determines the conditions for application, was published too late on 25 July 2016, only seven days prior to the publication of the admission order setting a deadline for application. Thus, the beneficiaries of this measure - municipalities and NGOs - found themselves in a situation to prepare projects with significant budgets and a serious volume of documentation, including technical ones, in just two months. Unfortunately, the information we have also shows another vice in which our question is. The list of areas with identified or predicted water stress and poor quality of drinking water, which is key to meeting the evaluation criteria for submitted projects, has also been published too late. The lack of the possibility of the website of the State Fund......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... More importantly, for us, whether you, Mr Minister, have an answer to the question: how was it possible for a municipality, which, at the date of publication of the list of areas with established or predicted water stress and poor quality of drinking water to succeed within less than a month, namely, in the period from the change of the Ordinance on 9 September until the end of the period of admission of 3 October 2016, to prepare a quality study? In this regard, please also answer: is it true that the list of areas with established or predicted water stress and poor quality of drinking water has been changed and supplemented in the course of receiving aid applications, and if so, on what basis and on what criteria has this list been edited? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u43	Thank you. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u44	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Danchev, Dear Mr. Georgiev, in the approved text of measure 7 "Basic services and renovation of villages and rural areas" the Rural Development Programme states that the grant is provided for activities related to construction, reconstruction and/or rehabilitation of water supply systems and facilities in agglomerations below 2000 equivalent inhabitants in rural areas. This text has also been translated into the provisions of Decree No 12 on the application of sub-measure 7.2. - data on agglomerations below 2000 equivalent residents included in Annex 3 to the Ordinance. It has been requested and made available to the Ministry of Agriculture and Food by the Ministry of Environment and Water in February 2016 a list stating that it is not final and is subject to an update within the following months. On the basis of the information received, the list of settlements in agglomerations with less than 2000 equivalents was included in the draft Ordinance published on the public consultation portal for a one-month public discussion. In the course of the public discussion, a comment was received from an external institution - Bulgarian Association of Consultants on European Programmes, concerning a difference between Annex 3 and the official data at the National Statistical Institute. At the same time, the Ministry also received an updated list of settlements and agglomerations with less than 2000 equivalents from the Ministry of Environment and Water, which is minimally different from those originally announced. The updated list was included in the final version of the Ordinance published in the State Gazette on 2 August 2016. According to the requirements laid down in the regulations, the list of settlements with established or predicted water stress and poor quality of drinking water shall be drawn up on the basis of information from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and shall be made public at the starting date specified in the order to accept applications for support under measure 7.2. The criteria relating to the ranking of these projects, namely: areas with established or predicted water stress and the other - established quality of drinking water, the competent institution providing information on both sub-criteria, is the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. According to the subcriteria agreed by the Monitoring Committee, their information shall be provided by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works at the starting date set out in the request for support applications. The request for assistance was issued by order of 2 August 2016 of the Minister for Agriculture and Food. The start date of admission by project is 2 September 2016 and the end date - 3 October 2016. The order was published on 2 August 2016. Three letters were received from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works from 18 August to 1 September, stating that they continue to receive information from municipalities about an area with established or predicted water stress, which they send us for the purpose of comprehensive data.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u45	Mr. Minister, you will continue in the back with the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u46	I have a sentence. The last information received and included in the list by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works is from 1 September 2016. According to the criteria for assessing the information on which the project evaluation will be carried out, it must be provided by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works at the starting date set out in the admission order. According to the requirements of the criterion, information received last on 1 September was included in the list, but due to the need to process the new information it was published on 14 September, which is in fact the delay within the order, but the data was previously accepted. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u47	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The line will be delivered by the MP Rumen Georgiev. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u48	Thank you, Madam President! Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we have asked you very specific questions regarding the fact that there is a change in the Regulation itself during the adoption, which is unacceptable for us. You just told colleague Krastina Taskova that there was no change in criteria, in regulations during the reception, but in this particular case, when the procedure itself started on September 2, there was a change in the criteria itself. For us, there is an amazement as to how some municipalities that were not on this list were on the list. How do these municipalities, within three weeks of the deadline - 3 October, manage to prepare, albeit in this short time, to prove investment research, technical documentation? To these questions we want to hear your answer, as it is unacceptable, I will repeat, when the reception is open, to change the Regulation, as this creates inequality for the participants in the procedures and, above all, that some municipalities in a very short period of time manage to prepare themselves. If last time to Mrs. Evelina Vassileva's question, you said that two months is short, why are you now wondering if you should sign the order - we also have two months here? I suggest you order an internal check to see if it is normal for this thing to happen - in the context of the adoption there is a change in the procedure itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You don't want to. We continue with a question from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and Kristina Sidorova about the quality and price of children's foods offered on the Bulgarian market. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u50	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Minister Porozhanov! In June the results of an analysis carried out by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which compares the quality and prices of Bulgarian food products and their European analogues. A number of differences were found, with extremely worrying data concerning children's foods. For example, children's mashed potatoes of the same brand sold on the Bulgarian and European markets have a difference in the content of the products. I think there is no need to specify that less quality foods are on the Bulgarian market. The huge difference in the prices of Bulgarian and European mashed potatoes between 90 and 107% higher prices are paid by Bulgarian mothers. In this regard, and given that the report has been known for almost three months and real actions do not actually see, I ask you: what specific measures will you take in relation to the observed worrying differences in quality and prices of Bulgarian products and their European analogues because Bulgarian children deserve quality and cheap food? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer this question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u52	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Mrs. Zhekova, Dear Mrs. Sidorova! Bulgaria generally supports the opinion of the Member States where analyses have been carried out that there is a phenomenon of double quality in the case of identical food brands offered on the European market. The study in Bulgaria was carried out in two stages. The first included a comparative analysis of labels, organoleptic, physical-chemical analysis, and the second focused only on the announced information on labels and the value of food. The results of both stages were made public. The result of the first market study and laboratory testing of children's foods, two types of puree, in relation to the double standard of food produced by the same producer or offered under the same brand and offered in different Member States of the European Union, shows that in the child puree of the same brand the label are declared all ingredients, but in the product offered on the Bulgarian market, the declared oil content of the oil will not be included in all the details that have been published. In a few words: the debate was made at European Commission level. The meeting was held in July, was presented to the Commissioner for Consumer Protection. Initially, he said that no amendments to European legislation were required. Of course, in subsequent talks with the President of the European Commission, Mr Juncker, on the basis of what the Slovak Prime Minister presented in this meeting, President Juncker personally announced that a solution should be sought. The solution can be a single single single arrangement in terms of the quality of products in the Single European Market, that when a single name product is offered on the European market, it must be of the exact same quality. The subject continues, it is not closed. In terms of prices. As you know, we also made a second check on prices. The products themselves were designated by independent experts from the consumer protection federations. They were two in number, the Food Agency and others. No significant differences were found. For 10 products there were higher prices, for the other..... equalities, and lower prices of the other products. I personally have had conversations with three of the chains, and I will not talk to them about the problem of the first part of the analysis, because then, apart from children's foods, there were some of the chocolate products that were quite overpriced. These are at this stage the opportunities we can make within the framework of the legislative framework, as these are market relations within prices. Otherwise you are absolutely right and I believe that we will continue to check especially these more sensitive products, the price levels in the European Union and in Bulgaria, but I hope they will be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u53	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. A line from Mrs. Klisurska. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from your answer, as we understand it, it has not become clear and we see it on the Bulgarian market, to reduce the price of children's mashed potatoes, such as were found to be differences between 90 and 107%. In this regard, we are aware of your appearances to the media regarding your meetings with the Commission for Consumer Protection and your meeting by the Council of Ministers and the report issued, but it is important for us to hear what the Bulgarian position is. Do you think there should be a new legal regulation regarding improving legislation in this direction and what do you defend as a position? Moreover, I think that the problem is very relevant to the quality of food from the problem of fipronil in the egg powder. In mid-July of all media we heard that there is no such problem in Bulgaria and that there can be no problem, then in August there are already two consignments of contaminated egg powder found in food, where children are the main consumers. Over 25 tons of ice cream was made with such contaminated egg powder. In this regard, we have seen the subsequent control measures that the Ministry is taking, but they should be regular. I would therefore like to hear more clearly what is your position on the dual food standards and on the problems with fipronil in the egg powder?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u55	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. You've intertwined two topics, but I let it go because it's about quality and price of children's foods. Come in for an answer, Minister Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u56	Thank you. The position on double standards has been repeatedly announced and you know it. Bulgaria supports the development of a common European approach and an assessment of the current legal framework so that decisions can be made to tackle double quality. Without a certain regulatory regulation,.. whether it will be a regulation or any other act of the Commission, there is no reason for us to claim one quality or another. It is precisely the single common approach that would provide effective tools for dealing with this problem. This problem, of course, has its own image character, confidence in the consumer is being violated, but we are not talking about poor food. For the fipronilla I will have a separate answer a little later, because I have asked such a question, but only here will I say: never and no one at any stage has said that Bulgaria can have a fipronil problem. The other day at the ministers' meeting, information has been provided on 26 EU countries already have imported products with fipronil-infected egg products or eggs and 19 countries outside the European Union. No one is guaranteed, as this is a process that has been developing since the end of last year until its opening two months ago. All comments from the most affected countries, where the source comes from, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, partly and France, are that this is a criminal act and it is pursued by the respective laws of the states. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u57	Thank you, Minister Porozhanov. The following is a question from the National Representative Pavel Shopov about the treatment of crops and fruit crops with prohibited and dangerous preparations for bees. Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This issue has not been put seriously in the Bulgarian National Assembly, nor on committees. I'm not flattered by this, but to put it on, things have come to a bone. I don't know, Mr. Minister, but have you seen the beehives that die poisonous bees, how these little animals squirm and die in terrible pain? It's a nightmare! Not to mention what this looks like in the eyes of the owners of the hives, those who have seen them who rely on them who live from this production. It is known that Bulgarian honey, together with the produced in Serbia and Romania, are the best quality, best in Europe, and also in the world, and cannot be compared in quality with the fakes coming from other countries. Especially after last winter, where mortality in some areas, given the climate conditions, was 80%, this issue is very relevant because this year the press reports and publications were abounding for some people dealing with this industry. Those were personal impressions as well. The matter has become even more up-to-date. And so from year to year. There is always a question raised by the industry organizations, by the beekeepers' alliances, but there is no solution. True, there are some bans, but they're fictitious. They don't work. And I know the pattern. These excesses are not obtained from authorised preparations. All beekeepers, and planters know how to go to Turkey and from there buy cheap preparations that are not only dangerous to bees, they are dangerous to people too. They're especially effective because they just don't have a measure. They are cheap and highly effective. The respective farmer, tenant or planter solves the problem, but the bees around for miles die massively and get a bee carpet in front of the hives. My question to you is: what findings have been made by the Ministry lately, if you will this year, in the last season have there been sanctioned farmers who have sprayed with banned chemicals and preparations?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u59	Get it over with, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u60	Yeah, I'm graduating. My question is: what do you intend to do in this regard to the preservation of this particularly valuable industry?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u61	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. You have five minutes to answer that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Shopov! The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is the competent authority under the Veterinary Activity Act, under the Plant Protection Act, under the Beekeeping Act and the currently in force Ordinance on measures for the protection of bees and bee families, on ways of carrying out plant protection, disinfection and disinfection activities. The Ordinance lists the conditions and arrangements for carrying out plant protection activities with ground and aviation equipment, specifying the protected areas, i.e. the minimum distance between the treated areas and the adjacent areas occupied by agricultural crops and settlements, as well as the time intervals at which agricultural crops are not allowed to be treated. The conditions and procedure for the disclosure of the events shall be the obligations of the plant protection contracting authority when using an aviation technique to spray the vegetation with plant protection preparations. Farmers are obliged to carry out plant protection activities in order to protect crops from pests. In accordance with art. 8 of para. 1 of the Plant Protection Act, all plants and plant products are kept and stored in good phytosanitary condition by those who grow them, produce, store, transport and sell them. According to the Plant Protection Act.................................................................................... 112, the requirement is introduced that persons who use land-based plant protection products or by air spray shall personally notify the owners of bee families located in the territory of the City Hall at the location of the areas to be treated, as well as the owners of bee families located in the border lands, of the date and time at which each application of plant protection products will take place. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency periodically organizes meetings with farmers, mayors of settlements in the region, beekeepers and others, where the obligations of stakeholders and control bodies are discussed and explained under the Beekeeping Act and Ordinance No 13 of 2016 on measures for the protection of bees. Subject to the requirements laid down in the Law, I shall not reclaim the laws on both sides, the owners of beekeepers and farmers would not be allowed to lie in the sea of bees due to the use of plant protection products in the conduct of plant protection events. In 2016 there were 12 complaints and signals for the sea of bees in the Regional Food Safety Directorates Varna, Veliko Tarnovo, Vratsa, Dobrich, Lovech, Pazardzhik and Ruse. 12 on-the-spot checks were carried out by committees involving inspectors from the respective regional directorates. In order to establish the reason for the sub-marine of bees from a plant protection product, it is necessary to take at the same time a plant sample and a sample of the affected bees. The conclusions of the committees on compliance with the Beekeeping Act and Regulation No 13 show that the cases in which owners of the families concerned prevail, refuse to take plant samples and do not wish to bear the cost of analysis, as regulated in the regulations. In addition, some of the complaints lodged were unfounded. Three samples were taken in 2016 in the case of complaints received in Dobrich The plant sample taken by the inspectors in Dobrich did not reveal any residues of used plant protection products. Only the results of laboratory tests carried out on samples taken on the Lovech complaint prove a link between the bee underwater caused by bees and the plant protection event carried out. An act of administrative misconduct has been drawn up in this case. In this year, by August 30th, 5 complaints and signals have been received for the underwater bees in the district food safety directorates in Montana, Kyustendil, Pleven and Varna. On-the-spot checks have been carried out by the relevant committees. No samples have been taken for studies due to the applicants' refusal, where the reason for the submersion has not been established and no link can be made between the mortality of bees and the plant protection events carried out. Few data on the number of bee families and apiaries for the period 2016 and 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u63	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u64	I'm done. For 2016 at 30 June 2016, we have 929 thousand bee families in 18 thousand bees. In 2017 by August 31st, we have 974 thousand bee families in 19,000, nearly 20 thousand bees. The above figures for the last two years show that we do not have a reduction, but a slight increase in bees and bees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u65	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Mr. Shopov, you have the floor for supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u66	Thank you, Minister, for having a specific in the second part of your answer, and I was interested in it. This finding is very disturbing and what you say is that there are only 12 cases in the country and 12 complaints that have been investigated. It is even more worrying that in only one case, harmful behaviour has been found by farmers. It is evident that the arrangement is imperfect because the phenomenon is widespread and causes tremendous losses. The beekeepers who are listening to us and who are witnessing this question are aware of the fact that the poisoning of bees is mass. There's a break in the relationship somewhere. There's a deficit of rules, of regulations. Moreover, samples must be paid. That's not right either. It is necessary in this regard to change the arrangements, because these samples cost a lot and are not able very often to those affected to pay the necessary fees for carrying out the checks. In any case, for me, this question, the question I am asking, must set the start of a process from here on, finally, after many years, perhaps decades, because this is not a new problem, to resolve. In other countries, this problem is solved. Agricultural producers should be grateful that, up to their plantations, beehives are carried, which pollinate their plants and increase extremely many yielding times the yields sometimes increase.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u67	Time's up, mind you! The questioning procedure provides that you have supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u68	Point of reference: Do you intend to make any changes to the arrangement? Do you think that it is outdated and changes need to be made?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u69	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Very brief. I agree with you, Mr. Shopov. What I think we can do at the moment is, of course, we will do a little more in-depth review of the problem, we must make a regular sample of this problem, which will be financed through the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency when there are complaints and signals found to be true, because the withdrawal from the complaint and the non-financing breaks the link of the reason. Only as information: autumn in the European Commission is expected to present a report on the treatment with different types of preparations and their impact on bees. You know that there are preparations that are currently not recommended, prohibited, but given the option of derogation member states to use them. On the basis of this report, which is expected to be submitted to the Commission, a slightly cleaner and clear decision will be taken to limit preparations with harmful effects on bees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Will you take the attitude, Mr. Shopov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u72	There is optimism in the answer you give that will improve and the system will tighten and control. This is the way. In this respect, a closer connection must be made with the beekeeping unions, the beekeeping organisations that put this issue as one of the main ones. You know that the industry is extremely successful in Bulgarian agriculture and all conditions must be created. I'll finish with one: keep in mind that beekeepers are special people, highly intelligent. They defend their rights in a very quiet and delicate, careful way. They will not do as in other industries to take tractors on the streets or to take agricultural animals to the Council of Ministers. That is why they should be given their due. I recommend that you start regular meetings with their representatives because from nearly one million hives, conditions in Bulgaria allow for an increase. You know that Bulgarian honey is one of the most sought after in Europe with an extremely high profit rate. This is a road to intensive agriculture, as I have said before, which is especially necessary for Bulgaria to replace the current extensive model with intensive agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. We move on to the next issue of parliamentary control by the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for the development of organic production. Here you go, Mr. Mirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is related to the policy of your Ministry for Development of Organic Production. We have repeatedly been asked the question that I will ask you. I am from Silistra region, there farmers are really very worried. We ourselves realize that this problem is not only in Silistra, it is in the whole country. The problems in organic production in this year have led to a situation where many farms cannot sign a contract during the new programming period to support organic production. In particular, farmers for which 2016 was the last to make a agri-environment commitment under measure 214 are affected. You can understand that in one programming period certain crops cannot be within the scope of organic farming, in the next one they cannot be included. Our question is: is the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry ready to launch a notification to the European Commission for adoption of applications for organic production in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u75	Thanks for asking. Here you are, Minister, to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u76	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Bachvarova, dear Mr. Mirchev! An analysis was published in May this year on the possibilities for adopting applications under measure 11 "Biological Agriculture" under the Rural Development Programme. The results of the analysis showed a budget deficit under the measure at the end of the programming period. Following the finalisation of the payments under the measure by the State Fund of Agriculture and on the basis of the data from the completed campaign in 2017, a second review of the funds needed to fulfil the commitments already made should be carried out, taking into account the possibility for farmers to apply for different agricultural crops, respectively levels of support. It should also take into account the fact that the objectives of the Rural Development Programme set out in a sub-measure for the transition to organic farming have been achieved. The notification of an amendment to the Programme relating to the commitment to additional funds under measure 11 should not be regarded as the only solution to the situation created, because the transfer of funds to the measure may result in a restriction in adoptions under measures planned in the Programme and the relevant indicators set out. Measures are currently being developed to contribute to improving the effectiveness of the organic farming control system. Recommendations relating to the strengthening of the checks carried out are made by both the services of the European Commission and farmers themselves. The higher effectiveness of checks carried out by all competent authorities aims, on the one hand, to minimise the possibility of granting funds to farmers who apply non-good practices in carrying out activities, thereby ensuring the appropriate use of the funds under the measure. On the basis of the review of the implementation of the Programme at the end of 2018, the European Commission will analyse the results of its implementation, based on these results recommendations and proposals for amendments to the Programme. At present, this is not a new topic, perhaps the second, third or fourth time we are discussing it. In measure 11, we have 50 million. EUR deficit on the basis of the commitments currently made. Since the organic producers, I give you a comparison, from 1054 in 2011, they became 7262 as a registered number of organic producers, whether they are in transition or as organic producers, it is impossible to cover all of them with subsidies and can be financed those who have entered the Programme of this Programme period and are committed to them for five years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u77	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova, for consideration.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I agree with you that there is an exact budget deficit in terms of organic resources. I believe that, in the very parameters of the protection of the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, this deficit is embedded because of the few financial resources that are separated and would not be so if, then, the Ministry of Agriculture was well positioned enough to accept the proposals of organic producers. I agree with you that it is not the only option to transfer funds from some measures to organic production so that those who want to be satisfied, respectively, for organic production, without expanding their commitments at present. My specific questions to you are related to this: in addition to the control of organic producers, do you think that much more serious control is needed to certification companies? I am under the impression that there are also quite serious problems, which the Ministry of Agriculture should pay attention to, because it is easy to provide opportunities for organic production without then being linked to assistance. In addition, another proposal that we meet in discussions with organic producers as a proposal: is it possible to have a differentiation of payments? Because agree that when you grow a decare walnut garden, its costs are much less than the production or cultivation of an apple garden, or raspberries, which is linked to a much greater intensity and from the employment point of view of labour, from the point of view of other direct costs, in order to be able to think in such a direction. As yesterday came up with information related to the dissatisfaction of the biological producers under Measure 4.2, the criteria being discussed...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u79	The weather, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u80	... do you have? this is clearly out of the question, but they are not satisfied with the ranking and the criteria that are offered in measure 4.2 at the present time, which is at the stage of discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u81	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u82	Very brief. By 4.2, I can't tell you what they're not satisfied with. They're a priority sector anyway, I'll get to know the subject. There's a problem with the entire biological control system, and you know it. We have also debated it before the European Commission. We have a plan on which we regulate the overall system of legislation, the Ministry, respectively control of certification persons, the work of certifying persons in the context of certification of organic producers and guaranteeing their activity. There were gaps. We're removing them right now. In a separate conversation, we can go into the details. With regard to the differentiated rates, it is difficult for me to tell you right now, because we need to look at what is at stake in the Programme and whether there is any notification to be made. The main one, regardless of how the rates will be examined or made, is the lack of a budget. Yeah, over 250 million is in measure 11. In my opinion, they could have been quite calmly less in measure 10 because there are some sub-measures that I personally do not like, but they are there anyway and are at stake. They could have gone to organic production. The truth, and you know it, is that good support for the biological sector in every respect, because they can order up to six or seven types of support, overexpose the desire to deal with the biological sector. Therefore, it is really important that control is carried out by the controlling authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to the next question, and he is from the National Representative Dimitar Boychev Petrov on the failure to comply with the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues, dear Mr. Minister! At the end of 2015, the National Assembly voted to amend the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. The amendments were proposed by me and a group of MPs from the Black Sea region. The changes record the dropping of the obligation of fishermen with small vessels up to 10 m, engaged in non-industrial fishing, to drop fishing logbooks. The reason for the bill is that our country has a fishing fleet of over 3,000 fishing vessels. In all its documents and official statements, the European Union shall support the promotion of catches with such small vessels. At that time, however, the Law in force was intended to keep a large number of documentation by the fishermen, accounting, fishing logbook, periodic declarations and so on. Almost two years later, despite the legislative changes adopted, fishermen are still required to provide the same bulk documentation to the Executive Agency. Over 90% of the Bulgarian fishing fleet, which numbers these 3 000 vessels, is mainly used for non-industrial fishing. Their activity is aimed at catching fish and aquatic organisms for their own use, supplementing income and preserving the craft of local fishermen. With non-compliance with legislative changes, the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture actually hinders the maintenance of the livelihood of Bulgarian fishermen. Dear Minister, I ask you to answer the following questions in this regard: why is the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture not allowed to comply with the adopted amendments to the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act and when will measures be taken to comply with this Act? The questions are also in the context of dropping the administrative burden, which is currently the focus of this government. Thank you in advance.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u85	Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u86	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Boychev! First of all, some information. On 31 December 2016, the Bulgarian fishing fleet engaged in commercial fishing consisted of 1910 vessels in Black Sea waters, 1751 up to 10 metres in length, inactive by them, not having completed business fishing around 40%. I would like to point out that approximately 68% or 730 vessels from active ships up to 10 metres in length have submitted declarations of ship origin throughout 2016. It should be borne in mind that under the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act, business fishing is an activity in which fish and other aquatic organisms are caught for business and income, regardless of whether the activity is carried out permanently, seasonally or temporarily. On 29 December 2015 the amendments and additions to the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, aimed at easing requirements for fishing vessels up to 10 m in length, were published in the Official Journal. One of the requirements is in the order of art. 19th para. 10 of the abovementioned Law allowing the masters of those fishing vessels to be exempted from the obligation to keep a fishing logbook. However, this possibility is only applicable provided that a sampling plan has entered into force in accordance with European Union law. This requirement arises from the provision of art. 16 of paragraph 1 of Regulation (EC) No 1224/2009 establishing a Community control system for ensuring compliance with the rules of the common fisheries policy. According to it, in order to ensure compliance with the rules of a common fisheries policy, each Member State monitors, on the basis of sampling, the activities of fishing vessels which are not subject to the requirements to keep a fishing logbook. To this end, each country shall draw up a sampling plan based on a methodology adopted by the European Commission and send it to the Commission by 31 January each year, specifying the methods used to draw up that plan. In other words, the exemption of masters of fishing vessels up to 10 metres in length from the obligation to keep a fishing logbook should be preceded by a sampling plan drawn up and sent on the basis of a methodology adopted by the Commission. In accordance with art. 10, para. 1 of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture until the entry into force of the plan for statistical sampling the masters of fishing vessels up to 10 m long shall be obliged to submit to the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture the completed declarations of origin under art. 20, namely the fishing logbooks, up to the fifth of the month. In view of the above, there is no formal failure to comply with the Law. This answer definitely annoys me, too, which I apologize for having to tell you. It turns out that the Law entered 20 months ago, 20 months ago, an organization had to be established, to make this methodology for the statistical samples, to get it into the Commission, to approve it, to automatically drop the commitment of the captains of the small vessels to keep these diaries. This has not been done so far! A pilot plan has been made that has not been approved and so on. What I would like to say with a sense of shame is that I am taking the subject personally, to see how far it has come and will accordingly take sanctions for those who have not fulfilled their commitments in these 20 months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u88	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You understand the seriousness of the matter. I'm satisfied with what I've heard. I will ask your subordinates in the IRA to engage in their work in a shorter time. The other issue, which is bigger and would solve many other problems it has, is the keeping of this register, because in it all are led like fishing vessels and there is perhaps vice. If you can pay attention and make a revision, because there is also a distinction under a directive between ships up to 10 m and over 10 m. These up to 10 m have much easier requirements than those engaged in industrial fishing. I would like to draw attention to you, if we could engage more seriously in the revision of this register, possibly distinguish between boats up to 10 meters and ships over 10 meters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u89	Thank you. You have the floor for the back. Would you like to use it, Mr. Secretary? No. We move on to the next question, which is also to Minister Porozhanov. He is one of the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova and Daniel Petkov Yordanov on the management of the State Land Fund. Here you are, Mr. Yordanov, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u90	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the management of the State Land Fund is within the competence of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. The effective auctioning of land from the state land fund is a clumsy and long procedure. According to official data on the annual and multiannual agricultural land contracts concluded over the last few years, there are no particular differences in the country's average rent payments received, and this calls into question the effectiveness of carrying out procedures for the conclusion of one-year agricultural land contracts from the State Land Fund. Our question to you, Minister, is: what will be the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests on the management of the State Land Fund, namely with regard to the conclusion of multiannual contracts, including the conclusion of those for the construction of permanent crops? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u91	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u92	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Honourable Professor. Bachvarova, Mr. Yordanov, the agricultural land of the state land fund is provided for renting or renting by tender, according to the provisions of the Law on Property and Use of Agricultural Land and its Implementation Rules. The auctions shall be held by the Regional...................................................................................................................... 47g and the following of the Rules. For 2016-2016, the year 2017 was tendered for one-year Polish crops 128 thousand. 582 decares for a period of one business year and 49 thousand. 618 decares for up to five years of business, 3108 decares for long-term use for the creation of permanent crops and 3800 decares for long-term use for the cultivation of existing permanent crops. As a result of the tenders for renting and renting in the country for the 2016 business year 2017 from the declared free agricultural land for one-year Polish crops and permanent crops, contracts for 77 thousand were concluded. 400 acres. In accordance with the provisions of the Law and the Implementing Rules, by Order of 30 March 2017 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, a tender procedure was opened for renting or renting free agricultural land from the State Land Fund in the country for the following business year 2017 - 2018, with the approval of the model tender documents for participation in the tender. In view of the effective management of state-owned land, the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is aimed at ensuring conditions for their competitive use, obtaining higher profitability, in accordance with the terms of the sector and the possibility of development and participation in the land use of new producers. In addition, Order 24a, para. 9 of the Law, which determined that, in the case of property earned, which partly or wholly does not fall within the specialized layer of eligibility of agricultural areas for support, no payment of the rent or rent contribution for the first business year of the contract is due. In this regard, at present, as Minister of Agriculture and Food, I have agreed to provide properties by the State Land Fund for Rent or Rent for Growing annual Polish Cultures, to create permanent plantings and to grow existing permanent crops for the 2017-based 2017-2018 period throughout the country for the proposals received by the Regional Agricultural, Forestry and Food Departments of Agriculture, including 46 thousand. Deka for up to one business year and up to 241 thousand. I round them up, of course, to five years of business. As you can see, the ratio has changed dramatically in favor of longer-term use. Long-term use and creation of long-term productions of 3 thousand, long-term use to grow existing long-term productions of 7 thousand. Seen from the above-mentioned information and in view of the sustainable management of the agricultural land of the State Land Fund, the proposed area for long-term dedication in the following business year has been increased almost five times compared to the previous business year, allowing for the conclusion of long-term leases or leases for agricultural land in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u94	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, in practice your response confirms the thesis that the State Land Fund can be used as an instrument and its effective management creates prerequisites for employment and also for the inclusion of new farmers in the production of agricultural production. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that a report came out last year in the European Commission, which found the extremely high concentration of agricultural land of huge scale in a small number of farmers. One of the recommendations and one of the concerns of this report was that young farmers in no form had access to agricultural land processing. In our view, the state-owned land fund can be managed and implemented policies in the field of agriculture, by providing access to people who want to start a business, but with the one-year contracts they cannot do so, because an investment takes time to recover the equipment, people, employment, investment in production costs. The question that we have for you is: this ratio, which has obviously begun to change for 2016-2017, will it be directed and will it continue as a policy in the coming years; will young farmers who want to start a business priority be able to do what is necessary to have access to realise their investment intentions and this picture, which is quite startling not only for Bulgaria, but for all countries of the European Union, to start a trend of overcoming this huge concentration of land? The fact is, in Bulgaria it is a really great problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u95	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Would you like to use the back? Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u96	Thank you. It is undoubtedly necessary to create the sustainability of each entrepreneur, including in the agriculture sector. So to me, it is not a subject of whether to continue such a sustainable... for giving longer periods of land than the state land fund. The law clearly states that it is given through tender procedures. In no way has tender procedures been laid down for each other, including whether they will be young farmers or others, to be privileged with regard to these procedures. So from a legislative point of view in operating with the State Land Fund this is not allowed as a priority. You know that young farmers have quite a lot of interest, especially in the Young Farmers Measure. They have their opportunities to apply for 6.1 payments, but above all 6.4. So the subject of the state-owned fund, apart from creating sustainability within the time when it is rented, at this stage we think it is enough. The creation of a preference for young farmers for using a state land fund is a matter of legislative and political decision. I can't tell you right now if this should be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Kristina Maximova Sidorova on illegal logging in Sevlievo municipality. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Minister Porozhanov! One of the pressing issues in Sevlievo municipality is dealing with illegal logging. Weekly cases of illegally acquired wood are recorded. Even more disturbing is the fact that some of these signals concern the cutting of centuries-old beech forests located in the water supply area of the city. The removal of trees in this area leads to the clouding and deterioration of the quality of drinking water for sevlievtsi. With deforestation, the surface hummus layer of the soil is destroyed, significantly reducing the amount of groundwater and the quality of water is deteriorating. After every rain Sevlievo is without water because the water is unfit for drinking and is terribly cloudy. After dozens of signals from residents of Sevlievo municipality and after my question was entered, it was about mid-July, a check was ordered which only found the facts so exported. An interesting detail is that several days after completion of the verification there are once again registered cases of illegal logging. In this regard, I ask you: what action will you take to deal with illegal logging in the municipality of Sevlievo?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u100	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Sidorova! The subject of illegal logging is the priority of the team, the management of the Ministry from the first week. Unfortunately, other painful themes in the forests are our priority, but at the moment they are not a theme. On the Ministry's website you can see the more than 60 000 inspections and detected violations, detained vehicles and so on. On the territory of Sevlievo municipality are the state-owned holding of Sevlievo and the state-owned hunting holding of Rositsa. In 2017 on the territory of the state-owned agricultural holding "Sevlievo" was issued 378 permits for logging, with no water areas being granted, 64 being for state-owned forest areas, 312 being for forests owned by natural or legal persons, and 2 are for municipal forest areas. From the beginning of this year until the time of the forestry territory, illegal logging of single trees has been found, for which eight acts have been drawn up to establish administrative violations and 8 power saws have been detained. In 2017, 212 permit holders were issued for logging, 129 for state forest areas, 81 for forests, owned by natural and/or legal persons, and two for municipal forest areas, respectively. Since the beginning of the year at present, an illegal logging has been found on the territory of the hunting holding, for which an act establishing an administrative infringement has been drawn up and a motor saw has been detained. On the territory of the DGS, 4 sanitary and security zones fall: Rossitsa, Biaala, Zelenikovets, and Bagaresnitsa. Within the territorial scope of these areas 40 logging permits were issued, state forest areas. 28 logging permits for concluded timber contracts in 2016, and 12 logging permits were issued for a signed contract for use in 2017. The harvested wood at present from sanitary zones is 5488 dense cubic metres. Also on the territory of a hunting farm in the sanitary and security zone, 8 permit holders were issued for logging in plant forest areas owned by natural and/or legal persons and two permit holders in the municipal forest areas. In connection with an alert received from local residents and media, at the end of 2015, an inspection by employees of the Regional Forest Directorate of Veliko Tarnovo was found illegal logging in 16 plots of land in the forest territory of the municipality, for which no permit was issued for logging. Slaughtering of about 6000 trees with a volume of 1505 dense cubic meters of wood has been established. The information found by the inspection was also notified in due time by an alert letter of the District Prosecutor's Office of Sevlievo. In view of these disturbing facts, an objective assumption can be made that this illegal logging, in particular, continues to cause concern in the inhabitants of the municipality at present. In the last two years, major regulatory amendments have been made. The first major change is related to the introduction of continuous video surveillance systems in registered sites under art. 206 of the Forest Act. The other significant change. The regulatory requirement for the installation of a positioning and tracking device for each means of transport via GPS, which effectively eliminates the possibility of re-use of the same transport ticket. These two amendments are laid down in the texts of art. Art. 148. 206 of the Forest Law, respectively in the regulations. There is another measure introduced by the amendments to the Forests Act in 2015, namely the ban on the production of wood in the dark part of the day.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u101	The time, Mr. Minister, you've suspended it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u102	I'm done. These are in a few words the measures taken and the information you received about the detected infringements and the acts issued within those holdings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u103	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u104	Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. What I have heard from your answer is that measures have been taken, but they are not enough to deal with illegal logging, all the more so that what I said and at the beginning of my question is about water supply and water supply of Sevlievo municipality, a really very painful for Sevlievtsi problem. I hope that the measures will continue to take more concrete action to deal with logging, and in the coming years we will not have such data for dozens of cubics, as you said just now, illegally acquired wood. The waking citizens of Sevlievo continue to monitor this issue, and if there are any violations again, I will signal and inform you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Siderova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? You won't use it. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Petar Hristov Petrov concerning the search for additional funds in the implementation of sub-measure 19.2 of the Operational Programme for Rural Development. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u106	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In the 2014-2020 programming period, the European Commission allocated fewer funds to the "Leader" programme, which is now known as community-led local development. In this regard, at the first invitation, many of the candidates who wanted to come up with their strategies at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food failed to do so because they had objective difficulties with the multi-fund application, which has now been accepted. As a result of the invitation held around 40 projects of local initiative groups, as is known to the general public, the local development carried out by the communities are the former local initiative groups. 40 projects covering about or a little more than 70 municipalities were approved, provided that there are 231 municipalities in Bulgaria eligible to apply for this measure. The residual resource left for the invitation, which expired on 31 August this year, is 20% smaller, and, as I expected, the number of projects that have been submitted is much larger, not to mention the number of municipalities, which is 120 From the submitted, as far as I have information, 70 projects, in any case with 20% less residual resource, whatever is being done, will be approved probably no more than 30 projects. Well, there is also a way, of course, to approve more projects by cutting programmes from strategies. I wanted to ask you first of all: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take to provide an additional resource of 25 million. BGN, which would ensure equal treatment of candidates from the first and second calls according to the number of projects expected to be approved?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u107	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u108	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Petrov! The total budget of sub-measure 19. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. Euros. The approved local action groups under sub-measure 19.2. also receive support for current costs and information and promotion activities under sub-measure 19.4., the budget of which is 30 million. Euros. By order of the Minister of Agriculture and Food of 29 December 2015, the Council authorised the Commission to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In 2016, an invitation to select LAGs and community-led local development strategies under sub-measure 19.2. was established. The adoption of the applications took place in the period 15 February 31 May 2016. The budget, which includes a financial contribution from the Programme, is over 60 million. Euros. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. EUR under sub-measure 19.4. By order of 29 August 2016 of the Minister of Agriculture and Food, the reception under the Programme was increased by 16 million. Six hundred thousand. EUR, i.e. up to 76 million. In this regard, 40 community-led local development strategies were approved under the first sub-measure 19.2 and 63% of the available funds were agreed. The Managing Authority of the Programme announced a second admission procedure by order of 23 June 2017 of the Head of the Managing Authority and established guidelines for determining the conditions for applying and the conditions for implementing approved strategies. Candidates for the LAG could submit documents in the ISAN 2020 system from 30 June to 17.30 on 31 August 2017. The financial resource under it by the Rural Development Programme is a remainder of the total financial resource under the sub-measure or slightly over 32 million. Euros. On the second admission strategies have submitted 70 local initiative groups, as each strategy must include the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development. It is a defining fund for the number of approved acceptance strategies. The quoted budget will allow the approval of about 22 strategies. At the end of 2016, proposals were received in the Managing Authority from the National Association of Municipalities of the Republic of Bulgaria with a request to raise the budget under the Programme for the Second Adoption of Strategies under Sub-measure 19.2., thus allowing a larger number of investments of local initiative groups. With an increase in the funds of the adoption, it is necessary to transfer such funds from other measures under the Programme. The transfer of funds under the measures shall be made by amending the Programme to be approved first by the Monitoring Committee and subsequently by the European Commission. In order to obtain such approval, a certain period is necessary, which has its technological time for these procedures. To conclude, I would like to draw attention to the approval of the first reception and to the work of 40 local initiative groups and, as I have already mentioned, the second reception is expected to be 22. In this way, one of the indicators for the implementation of the community-led local development approach will be implemented, namely 60 approved local initiative groups. Thus, the number of LAGs to the current programming period will exceed those approved during the previous programming period when only 35 LAGs were financed. In conclusion, there is no money available on any of the measures. There's one or two, or others that haven't slightly begun. The subject was just about biological. The topic can be opened to any measure, including the municipal measures for which we will open a second reception at the end of the year, again on the residual resource. So I would like to tell you that we do not foresee a transfer of new funds under these measures under the Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for the line, Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u110	Thank you. Thank you for your answer, Minister. Of course, I expected to hear a more professional response that responds to the new moments that occurred during the programming period, namely that we have much greater capacity in small municipalities that are developing really very good projects for LAGs. I myself want to declare that I have no conflict of interest, I do not participate in any schemes, in any advisory services in this respect, to keep you calm. I would like to say that there is absolutely no problem in gathering those we are saying in my question.. 20-25 million. EUR, and to be given to the remaining ones, as you mentioned in your report, 50 local initiative groups that will not receive any funds. Dear colleagues, you can tell that to your voters.. 50 local initiative groups with about 80 to 90 municipalities will not receive any lev. This means that small villages within small municipalities will not be able to receive any money for their small projects. These, small and medium-sized producers will get nothing, because this is the only resource from which they can apply. He will therefore insist that the appropriate amendment be voted on, that the funds be found. I think that there is no problem, because the municipalities themselves. The Association of Municipalities is according to this to happen, and the Ministry does not want to do so because it will create a lot of work because it will miss the absorption of funds under other programs, which are also difficult and complex. In conclusion, I would like to say that I will not give up asking and asking the Minister to do what is necessary to find these funds, they are in the Programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. A hole, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u112	I want to apologize for my speech being unprofessional. Of course, your line was extremely professional, creating an apocalyptic picture in small places. I would like to tell you that LAGs can very, very improve the management and efficiency of these funds, which are not at all few. In many places, funding under the Rural Development Programme will not be provided. Competition in both municipal projects and private investment is extremely high. Again, I want to tell you that this money is gone, but I don't mind you insisting on it all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u113	Thank you, dear Minister. We're moving on to the next question from Professor. Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests to create order in land relations. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u114	Thank you. Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Minister! The problems with land management are not from yesterday, but in recent years they seem to have deepened, with the critical points in relations in two directions. The first is between owners of agricultural land and those who manage the land in the conclusion of leases and leases. Moreover, there is already serious tension between small and medium-sized farmers and large farmers who manage in some form to remove them from the respective territories and to continuously increase their arable land. Ingenuity is extremely high in terms of the contracts, which are provided as a legal basis for obtaining European subsidies. This ingenuity concerns both the one-year contracts for which in most cases it is found to be fake, and already in the last month the topic of recorded counterfeit contracts, which concern about 43 thousand. Deca white spots, which were respectively recognized by companies as real-time processors and registered in court. The reasons are different for this state of land relations. Perhaps the reason is also the frequent change of the Law on Property and Use. For example, in the previous parliament in one year, the changes were four or five times, and at the same time in the Rules for Implementation of the Law, which the Ministry had to prepare, respectively, the change was only once, which means that six or seven months is being prepared to change the Rules for Implementation. During this time, there is sufficient reason to believe that these bad practices can be analysed and implemented accordingly. In addition, we believe that bad practices continue in the structure of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. I give one example: ten years after joining the European Union, land overlaps continue. It is true that they reduce each year by two or three thousand, and now the latest information from the Ministry is that 60 thousand. They shall be covered by applications. Personally, I cannot explain how this is happening, provided that the software available to the Ministry takes into account all fatal errors, i.e. overlaps are a fatal error. How do you overcome it, how do you manipulate this software? There is simply no explanation in terms of the procedures applied in the Ministry. The white spots also have a problem because the law says that the white spots with an order must have been paid and only then the legal basis takes effect. According to a written reply you provided me in July, some of the white spots have not yet been paid and therefore the funds have not entered the district services. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] There are many examples that need to be addressed, and in this regard our inquiry is related to the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture to create order and sustainability in land relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u115	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Mr. Minister, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Bachvarova, dear Mr. Gokov! The Land Property Authorities of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Regional Agriculture Directorates, the Municipal Agriculture Services administer the use of the Land of the State Land Fund, as well as the comatized use of the agricultural land through the creation of land use arrays under the Law on the ownership and use of the agricultural land, and the Rules on its application. The main purpose of the land of the State Land Fund is to use them for agricultural purposes and the land free of disposal is to be provided annually for requited rent or rent, by auction or competition. Any registered farmer who meets the requirements laid down in the Rules of the Law for admission to tender may submit an application for participation twice a year in May and November usually this time is delayed for certain reasons. The Municipal Agriculture Services shall carry out checks on the state of use of the property by the State Land Fund, and for those users who use such properties without legal basis, orders of unlawful use shall be issued on the basis of which the same shall pay an amount representing the three-fold amount of the annual average return payment of the land of the municipality. For this purpose, a methodology for carrying out checks on the condition and use of the properties of the State Land Fund was developed and established, which includes strict measures and the provision of free use of land by it, and, in the event of violations of the use or devoid of necessity, the orders by which the land is granted are amended or revoked. By amending and supplementing the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land, promulgated in 2014 and 2015, new terms and conditions were introduced for renting or renting of pastures, meres and meadows from the state and municipal land fund. After the changes these properties are rented or rented out, without auction or competition of owners, or users of owners, livestock holdings with pasture farm animals registered in the Integrated Information System at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and according to the number and type of registered animals at a price determined under the market mechanism. The procedure for the establishment of agricultural land use arrays by the conclusion of a voluntary agreement or administrative distribution of the arrays among the rightful ones is achieved settlement of land relations in order to ensure effective mechanized processing of agricultural land under the conditions of heavily fragmented property and numerous properties with a hard to establish owner. The agreements concluded ensure the use of the arrays during the business year, while providing the appropriate compensation to owners who were not established at the beginning of the business year. With the use of agricultural properties, with the way of permanent use of fields, meters and meadows, as intended, as well as in order to provide institutional support for the development of the livestock sector, with an amendment and an addition to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land from 2017, a procedure has been introduced to establish an agreement on land use arrays, meres and meadows by owners and/or users of livestock holdings with pasture farm animals. The legal framework of the lease agreement on agricultural land is contained in the Agricultural Landing Act, which provides adequate protection to both the owner who gives his land a renter and the person who will benefit from the land a renter. The lease contract shall be preferred from when the parties wish to be bound for a longer period as the minimum is five years of business and there are no limits for a maximum period. Its conclusion is suitable for owners who do not intend to sell their land soon, know their tenant and are convinced of its correctness in a longer commitment. The contract is preferred by tenants as it gives them the certainty that they can use the land for a longer period and carry out the relevant investments in order to improve the efficiency of their holding. Between the parties to the lease contracts concluded, bond relations arise which are of a private and legal nature and therefore the problems and disputes of the contracts declared should be resolved by the parties under the agreed clauses, the Agricultural Landing Act and the legislation in force. In this respect, they are outside the competence of the land ownership bodies. Regarding the information received about the manipulation of the terrains with the white spots we communicated continuously, as early as the first applications for entry. You know that on the part of the Ministry we issued instructions on the very same day to our regional agricultural services to require additional documents from the owners about how the land was provided and none of these contracts were entered. If I'm not mistaken, 79 were sent signals to the D.A.'s office. Of course, the subject was used because there were loopholes in the legislation. At the moment we are also preparing, and from another place are prepared additions and amendments to the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land and in the Law on the lease, which will be proposed, I would say, for a faster procedure of the attention of the Commission on Agriculture and Food. The subject of white spots is long and you know that the overlaps have already decreased to less than 1%, and the entry of registered ones we have when they come with different contracts for the right to use one particular plot, and, of course, within the procedure, the right of one or more of them is cleared, depending on the nature of the documents for use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u117	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, Prof. Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u118	Thank you. Dear Minister, you were correct in terms of the procedures of the State Land Fund. Perhaps a little more control should also be taken in respect of municipal lands, and also in compliance with the requirements of the Law relating to the provision of meadows and pastures for livestock farming, as there are serious problems in terms of choice, as well, in terms of what is provided as use. The experience you have with the State Land Fund, when it is outside the qualifying layer, not to pay rent for a certain time, for one or more years in the municipalities, does not happen and in practice the costs that each one must do at the beginning are enormous. Our supplementary questions are two. First, you speak in a report of your 100 days' work that you need a single law governing land relations. The fact is that from publications in the media I have not been able to find out much about what this is about and what the vision is in this direction, this is the more important issue. The second supplementary question is related to the Cadastral. In the last parliament, an absurd law was passed, in which with a map of restored property the lands went to the Cadasta. He had to be ready and one of the reasons for these fake contracts to appear is that we don't have a real Cadastral. If there was a cadastral, every notary would have seen the owner, and so would the sketch of the property. But the fact is, there's no Cadastral. This is not only the work of the Ministry of Regional Development, but also of the Ministry of Agriculture because it is interested. One of the elements of the sustainability of land relations is the lack of control regarding these fake contracts that appear is precisely the lack of cadastral. It is at the heart of many of the issues to be resolved in the future. There are also many other laws, such as seed and planting material, where suddenly requirements for land use, spatial limitations, isolations and land grabs again. It is simply the legislation of land relations that really creates prerequisites for interpretive relations, which subsequently create a problem for both owners and users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u119	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. For the treatment of Mr. Minister?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u120	Thank you. The main problem with the white stain case about a month ago, of course, the Cadastre is a topic, but in this case the legislation allowed notaries to validate the contracts only the signature without validating the content. This is what we are currently removing as a legislator, but also some other things. Yes, it will once again be another patch in the laws on the use of agricultural land. This liberal approach, in the context of this, does not stop the possibility of using land in order not to leave unused land, in this case, has given rise to suspicions of fraud, speculation, etc. The topic with the single legislative document to regulate land relations is not new, was also discussed in the previous government of Mr. Borisov. An idea was launched to create a Code of Land Relations. Unfortunately, he's gotten nowhere. I would say that the order for drafting legislative changes is subject to certain checks. We've set up a task force that's not very advanced, had two or three meetings. We also told the press conference at the end of August that our idea is to review the legislation related to the use of agricultural land by the middle of next year. Will it be a code or a law? A code with 500 and over 500 members is a very heavy document that is difficult to look at. On the other hand, the agricultural sector itself, land users want everything settled in one place. Do not think that the Ministry has the wonderful administrative capacity to write a wonderful code. It's a wider subject. The topic of unification of the regulations in a single document is open and standing before us. With regard to the problems with the white spots, I told you: we will propose legislative changes to the Commission's attention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u121	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov for attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u122	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Minister, no one in Bulgaria can deny that land relations are extremely complex and problems cannot be exhausted with the duration of a parliamentary inquiry. Facts are serious problems in the relationship between landowners and tenants. The payment of the lease has become a battle between landowners and tenants and is a discussion theme since the beginning of the transition. These relations are difficult to manage, but must be resolved and regulated by the state because the Bulgarian remains with the feeling that the state is on the side of the incorrect tenants who lie and cheat the owners, although they have given them their lands. The current legislative framework governing land relations creates prerequisites for abuse, and the owner of the land is in a disadvantage and is less important than the tenant. Mr. Minister, the question we asked you concerns two thirds of the Bulgarians who own land: who more, who less, but their only chance is for the land to be given under the lease because there is no other alternative. I'm not satisfied with your answer. It is too professional, too expert, too clerical, but there is no answer to the simple question what to do about landowners when they systematically violate their contracts when they do not receive their rent: to go to court, to conduct their own expenses, to spend money that, in most cases, do not have to get anything to face, even to condemn the tenant?! When, Minister, will the state intervene to create order and sustainability in land relations? When will he side with the owners and protect their interests and not just the tenants? I hope you understand that the idea of our questioning is not political nagging, but a way as an opposition to understand together with all stakeholders what will be the policy that you will be leading in agriculture and land relations. The landowners are now fully dependent on the tenants. When are we gonna change that? When will the tenants become dependent on the owners, as is appropriate? I assume you already know that we have already collected the necessary signatures on the basis of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and our Rules of Procedure, with which we propose discussions on the subject of our inquiry. Our expectations are the discussion to focus on the current state of the land relations in Bulgaria in the context of property protection, problems in the conclusion of lease contracts, control by the structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, visions for legislative changes from both your and all parliamentary groups. Madam President, we have gathered more than the necessary signatures.. 61 are. I ask you to schedule debates on the subject of our questioning. I hope there will be a constructive debate which will lead to concrete solutions on the problems of all Bulgarians who own agricultural land. Thank you. [[Provides documents to the President Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u123	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. I've reviewed the note, there are 61 signatures collected in connection with the previous question. By letter No 754-00-96 of 8 September 2017, submitted today at 11.08 a request was received for a debate on a question and a Draft for a Question Decision No 754-05-33/13 July 2017 by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for the creation of order in the land relations. The proposal for a debate on the questioning and the draft decision are signed by 61 MPs, that is to say, the requirement is fulfilled that more than one fifth of the MPs make a proposal on asking for a debate on art. 105, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 105, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, I hold a debate on the questioning and voting of the draft decision for the next sitting, designated for parliamentary control. We move on to the next issue, which is from the National Representative Ivan Ivanov, concerning actions of the Shumen District Food Safety Directorate in the village of Kaspichan, Kaspichan municipality. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u124	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! This issue is dictated by meetings with voters, such as meetings I hold regularly in my electoral district. In my opinion, it concerns cases that are not isolated only in this populated area. During my host citizens, who raise animals, submitted their complaints about the activities of the Regional Food Safety Directorate related to the killing of 20 calves in the period 13-20 June 2017 in the village of Kaspichan. I was interested in this case, as there are quite a lot of ambiguities, quite questioning in the arguments they have put forward against the actions of the Regional Directorate. My request is here in your reply to explain: what has required the killing of such a large number of animals and the legal action of civil servants in this case? I bring with me the acts for establishing violations and the complaints of citizens themselves, I suppose you have them, where I think there are a lot of discrepancies between what has been done and what people consider to be their right. I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u125	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For an answer, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Porozhanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u126	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, on 5 June 2017, following an alert from villagers, employees of the Regional Food Safety Directorate (Shoumen), carried out an inspection at an establishment located in Kaspican village, Kaspican municipality. When checking the data in the integrated information system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency there are no data available on animals at this site. The on-the-spot verification found that around 12 bovine animals were present at the site, of which only three large ruminants were identified by official identification means. By an act of prohibition No 2 of 5 June 2017, issued by an official veterinarian, the animals were placed on the market until their release from an official veterinarian. The verification shall contain a consolidated report of 5 June 2017, a prescription and an act establishing an administrative infringement under the current veterinary legislation. In order to clarify all the circumstances, the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate Shoumen ordered a re-check. On June 12th of this year, the committee, appointed by order of the director, established, apart from the animals described above, and three more calves. As a result of the verification, a consolidated report of 12 June 2017 and an act establishing an administrative infringement were drawn up. The person presenting himself as the owner of the animals has not provided any evidence that events under the National Programme for the Prevention, Supervision, Control and Elimination of Animal Diseases have been carried out in Bulgaria. In particular, no bluetongue, lumpy skin disease, anthrax have been vaccinated, and no blood samples have been taken for testing and other health-threatening diseases. The land of the village of Kaspichan is an anthrax outbreak and every year all sheep and cattle must be vaccinated against anthrax. There is no evidence that the animals have been tested for brucellosis and tuberculosis for other particularly dangerous diseases transmitted to humans. The mandatory animal treatment records were also not presented within the time limits following possible treatments... the most important measure for the management of antimicrobial resistance in animals and humans. These animals were potentially hazardous to the health of other animals and humans. In the context of the circumstances referred to, the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate Shoumen has issued an order for the killing of animals on site from 13 June 2017 and an order for the withdrawal of animals for the benefit of the State and its killing elsewhere on the same date. The orders were signed by two employees as a result of the refusal of the owner of the animals. On 13 June 2017, information was received that the animals had disappeared, which was immediately notified to the Director of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Shumen, to assist and clarify the circumstances regarding the location of the animals. The lack found is described by a constant protocol of 13 June this year. In carrying out the operational search activities by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior, the animals were found within the same day around 20 hours, and the animals were found on the meadow near the road between the village of Kaspichan and the village of Mogila. Thanks to the joint work of the Regional Directorate for Food Safety and the Ministry of Interior, there is a risk of spreading infectious diseases in the country affecting humans and animals. As a result of the implementation of the provisions of the legislation in force, animals have been killed in a humane manner and targeted for disposal in an escargot. For information only, three outbreaks of bovine tuberculosis were observed in Shumen County and in 36 settlements the animals were vaccinated against anthrax as the disease was found there. One of the recent outbreaks of lumpy skin disease was found near Kaspichan. The area itself is quite delicate in terms of animal diseases and animals themselves, which have not been registered, have not been vaccinated in the appropriate order, and these actions have been taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u127	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ivanov, come in for a line. Colleagues, I let the minister speak a little more because the topics are really important, so that the Bulgarian citizens and you can get acquainted.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u128	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! From your exposure and from the information I've received, everything that's happened, it's starting to sound too criminal to me. What do I mean? According to the complaints of the injured persons whose animals were destroyed, the animals were purchased precisely during the period in which the complaint was lodged and purchased by the person who gave the signal in the Regional Food Safety Directorate. If you have carefully read the constant protocols with which violations have been identified, all animals have been found to be missing ear marks. So they had ear tags and they're already gone. The lightning activity of the local branch of the Food Safety Agency and the fact that they have not carried out an examination of the person who sold these animals, because if that person who sold the animals removed the marks, it had to be established for what reason these ear tags were removed, whether these animals had undergone the necessary treatment with the relevant vaccines to be safe for human health. It is for this reason that I was interested in this question, even more so, that it impresses me in the killing protocols that they were claimed in the dark part of the day at 11 p.m. at night, so it says in the complaints. It impresses me when I talk in my reception room that then one of the people who got 18 calves killed was returned to him four. Why are these animals returned to him, for what reason, were they marked with stamps, were they not? They have no feedback from the protocols from the corresponding equarius whether they have been disabled and so on. That's why my appeal is more detailed and more careful to review the case, because according to the data and indeed there is no one else in the area to sell animals, the one who gave the signal, it was he who sold the animals. Why is this thing happening? Is there any other subtext of what's happening to this thing? The request of both me and the people of the village of Kaspichan and the mayor, who also referred to me, is to really establish all these facts......................is there any other reason and are these animals really dangerous to people's health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u129	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, for the coat?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u130	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u131	We continue with the next request by the National Representative Bürhan Abase on the lack of analyses, vision and positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for the new common agricultural policy after 2020. Here you go, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u132	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question concerns the lack of analysis, vision and position of the Ministry on the new common agricultural policy after 2020. The preparation of a vision for a common agricultural policy after 2020 and then a position on the legislative proposals of the European Commission is a highly responsible political obligation of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. It is therefore very important that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry make public the analysis on the basis of which the administration prepares our national priorities. It is very important that these priorities and analyses are presented and discussed with farmers, all the more so that the beginning of the real debate will take place during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union. This means that we will have the real chance that our national ideas will become European and be realized. The fact is that a debate has started between industry organizations in the sector, but the discussion is held without the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry providing analyses from the implementation of the common agricultural policy for the first ten years. Last but not least, the opinion of the industry should be taken into account, but still the official expressor of the country's vision and position is the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. Some of the Member States in the European Union have already clearly defined their vision and positions on key issues for the development of the new common agricultural policy. With that in mind, Minister, my question to you is: does the Ministry have analyses of the objectives and effects achieved by the 10-year implementation of the common agricultural policy on the agricultural sector in the country? Does the Ministry have a vision and positions on developments in the common agricultural policy after 2020? Does the Ministry have a strategic goal of what agriculture needs Bulgaria in the future, and what will it have to achieve in the period 2020 - 2027?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u133	Thank you, Mr. Abase. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u134	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Abase, undoubtedly the subject you are putting is extremely up to date, but I would like to assure you that the Ministry is working on it continuously and daily. The topic of what the new common agricultural policy should be is a topic which we debate very actively with our agricultural sector, because our agricultural sector already has the experience of two programming periods on how to develop its directions, how to finance, which measures are really useful to develop agriculture as a whole in each of the directions. That's why we've already had four meetings. Another meeting I invite you to is on the 12th in the Ministry, 12th and next month, where the industry will finalise its position. I want to tell you that there are absolutely all over 30 major associations in all sectors. What is currently going as a debate in both the Council of Ministers and DG Agri, and within the framework of the vision that we are building, including with farmers, is what priorities should be. It is undeniable that almost everyone, not to say at 100 per cent, European countries stand behind the position that once again the most successful European policy that has been carried out in recent years is the common agricultural policy. It must be preserved, and here the debate is in what formats. It is undisputed that direct payments, at least with us in the form in which the area payments are, of course, direct payments, you know, in the new programming period are divided into a minimum of six directions, and the tied ones are another 14 and so on and so forth. What is being built as a vision is to preserve the nature of these payments. One of the priorities in which there may be some slight dispute in the Bulgarian industry is how things stand with the related production. At the moment, you know, up to 13% of the budget of direct payments that we have under Pillar One is admissible and we are using for the measures that we have notified to the Commission about the production in connection with the basic measures in livestock production, fruit and vegetables, including the greenhouse. Under the Rural Development Programme, the position is that, indeed, as it is, here the bigger problem is the budget, but for it I will say a few words further, it must be reoriented in effective measures to bear the added value in the sector. The added value, of course, in rural development, is a priority of absolutely all European countries. Yes, some member states have already come up with their positions. However, we want to have the clear vision of the agricultural sector, because in every debate we have, we have no differences with them. The last topic was very interesting in terms of financial instruments, how to guarantee the risks and challenges they are, if you will, even climate related, if you will, with the animal diseases that we had just debated. Whether there is a third pillar within or these financial instruments are set to cover the risks in the first two pillars, this is a debate that is also at European Commission level. Yeah, we didn't do any global analysis. You know very well that under the old Rural Development Program, the analysis for the implementation of indicators is stuck somewhere in some public procurement. Of course, there are indicators in the previous ones, there are analyses, but we do not foresee a fundamental change in the sector.................... as it is. Yes, there are cultures that are not a priority of the European Commission as a whole. I'm not gonna list them right now. You know some of them, which, of course, are the commitment of the state both at the moment and in the future to provide a form of support..................................................................................................... So the position we're about to officiallyize just recently, I guess within a month, will be just in time. We didn't have to go out in any position, then change or make others. I have had at least a dozen meetings with colleagues from the European Commission, both with the Polish minister and Slovenian, not to list them all in which we are debating these topics on the CAP. What I had in a timely meeting with the Commissioner this Monday, the Commission's communication will come out in November. You mentioned him in your question as well. Based on the Commission's communication, the preparation of the regulations will be launched, of course, and the debate. I would like to dispel the doubt that the Presidency is giving us almost an opportunity to impose a position. The Presidency is responsible for holding all the meetings, for setting the topics. Of course, this is all done together with DG Agri, with the Commissioner for Agriculture. So the good thing about this case is that we as a position like Bulgaria do not have any significant differences with the other member states. Maybe the Scandinavians have some shades in one direction or another. So I want to assure you that this position will come out. I'd like you to come to the 12th most officially. I'm waiting for the final position. Where's the bigger topic? The bigger issue is in the budget. Everyone wants this budget for agriculture, I am talking about the other member states at the level of ministers of agriculture, to be preserved in order to have sustainability in the competitiveness of the European farmer. You know that there are prerequisites for a reduction in the overall budget of the European Union. Britain's very exit as a net importer, as a net donor in the budget, and some other factors lead to an annual deficit of over 15 billion. I think even the numbers are a little bit bigger, but I'm saying it very conditionally. This means that there have been five Commission scenarios for a reason how to finance this thing, how to balance it with an increase in contributions? You know that Bulgaria is a net recipient of revenue. Our contribution doesn't make up for what we're getting. It is very clear that net donors would not want to pump and power again. Of course, this topic is very important because here the level of funding is important. And what I recommended to Commissioner Hogan on Monday in the conversation is a good analysis at European Commission level, in which, if we had a reduction in the funding levels of the sector in general, in Europe, in the next programming period, for example by 10%, first, how would it be compensated? Secondly, if we have a reduction, how will this affect the competitiveness of the European farmer against South, North America, the Asian countries, because this already... Of course, this cannot be for Asia, it must be by sector, because one is in the production of beef, another in dairy products, third is in the other directions, fourth, fifth and so on. It's a very serious topic to rush with, but we won't be late. Be assured that the position we will take will be a balanced position that we will fully coordinate with the agricultural sector. Yeah, there's probably gonna be some association that's not gonna like something a little bit. He's not always happy about one thing or another. That's why we'll deliver it in time. I won't go into the details and the conversations I've had at DG Agri and Commissioner level. Indeed, what will come during our Presidency are extremely interesting topics which personally fill me with energy. In May, the Commission's announcement on the distribution of income in the food chain will come out, because you know the big problem for Bulgaria, which is also for Bulgaria, the producer of the salesman, where the money goes, where the profits go - a very delicate topic that goes beyond market relations. In June, the multiannual financial agreement is expected to come out, the budget for the next 7 years of the European Union is already the key. So the subject is very deep. Next week on Thursday and Friday, we welcome the General Secretariat. I can't help but thank you for taking it away from me on Friday, and I won't be able to complete my meeting with the Secretariat-General, but Parliament is always first of all. So, Mr. Abase, we're available. You know, the analysis of the Ministry of Agriculture was never the strong side. Now let me tell you that I'm going to try to change it, but the analysis isn't...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u135	Minister, 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u136	Because it was a question, Madam President, that's why. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u137	And that's why I left you a little bit more to talk about, because the subject is really important. I think the coworkers won't mind. Mr. Abase, for two additional questions? You won't ask. Thank you. We are moving on to the next question of Mr. A's request regarding the delay in the procedures under sub-measure 7.2 of the Rural Development Programme. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u138	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Firstly, thank you, Madam President, for giving the Minister twice as much time as expected to be able to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u139	It was important to hear that, yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u140	The fact itself makes it clear that the issue was very important and that this great challenge, which is ahead of us, must respond in the best way. My second question, honourable Members, relates to the delay in the procedures sub-measure 7.2 of the Rural Development Programme. The very fact that this issue is raised for the third or fourth time today makes it quite clear that the problem is important, first of all, and that there is indeed a problem. The adoption of the applications for support under this sub-measure started from 2 September 2016 and continued until 3 October 2016. Immediately thereafter, a number of signals were received from the Bulgarian Association of Consultants on European Projects, the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria and individual municipalities, that there is a risk for the implementation of the measure for the renewal of villages because of: first, the late publication of the conditions for applying; second, changes in the course of the adoption of the projects, as well as some unresolved conditions for applying. After the difficult start of the measure, new tensions were reached with the beneficiaries and this was unwarrantedly the long period of evaluation of the submitted projects. The project ranking deadlines have been totally ruined due to the lack of coordination between the State Fund (SFF), the Ministry of Agriculture and Food (IMH) and non-governmental organisations, which greatly complicates and slows down the process of establishing regulations. The vague interpretation and changes at the last moment by the State Fund...................................................................................................... A total of 200 objections to the classification under sub-measure 7.2 were received by the Ministry and the Fund and most of them related to road and street projects. Huge will also be the number of cases by municipalities. Even more inexplicable is the delay in the next step of technology, namely negotiation. To date, there is not a single beneficiary ranked above the draft with the invitation to sign a contract. One year has passed since the start of the measure and still approved beneficiaries do not have a contract!? With these actions and inactions, Mr. Minister, you condemn the municipalities to doing construction works during the winter months, for which they will again be guilty of the delay. In this regard, Mr Minister, my questions to you are: what actions will you take to speed up the signing of the treaties with the municipalities sub-measure 7.2; how will you apply the criteria approved by the Monitoring Committee; how do you intend to resolve the problem of the required duties of the municipalities to the Paying Agency at the time of the signing of the contract with the State Fund? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. For an answer within five minutes, maybe a little more, Mr. Porozhanov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u142	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr Abase! This is probably the third, fourth time I'm going to comment on sub-measure 7.2 again. Yeah, there's a delay. It's almost a year away. She hasn't made it yet. I hope by the end of the so-called year contracts will be finalised, as they have already signed orders, they have started to come out. I'm going back to the criteria one more time. The criteria as set out in the Ordinance have been examined by the Monitoring Committee. There are no changed criteria. The theme was interpreting the application of some of the criteria. At that time the Ministry of Agriculture gave written instructions to the Fund about how to interpret the criteria in the specific case of plumbing and the streets in the settlements. The way the criteria are interpreted. I want to tell you that I attended the meetings with the Association of Municipalities before this came out as an indication. Of course, the Association of Municipalities sends its representatives to expert level. I do not believe that this has been done and it is not a job to make it official, as the managing authority is the responsible institution. There was no objection to how to interpret the criteria in question. Of course, within the course of the process itself came out and in the so-called............................................................................................ Of course, after the Ranking was announced, there were many complaints. Then, in January 2017, a working group was established at the Ministry of Agriculture to address these complaints. The task force at the time of the entire office was not functioning. She completed her work in May as a deliberate meeting again with the Association of Municipalities we interpreted, gathered together and commented on the way of ranking. Yeah, he's what he is, and any change in the way he looks at it would lead to total chaos, I'd say, and in the context of... And the way in which the consultants in question and other dissatisfied it was creating artificial conditions that were inadmissible under the Regulation... I give you an example of a water project which, in order to accumulate on the points for residents, makes water supply activities in five or six villages, but in fact in some of them they are very short sections of 100, 200, 300 meters, which is an artificial condition, where you look at it according to the requirements of the regulation. Therefore, the interpretation made by the Ministry in November prior to the reception is in the other direction. After we were finished and clarified in the framework of the conversation with the Association of Municipalities, another topic remained. During the same time, the examination of the projects was going well at the Fund. The issue of public procurement criteria remained. It is no secret to you that the biggest problem in the old programming period were the application of the criteria for public procurement, as the old law was extremely liberal. At least under the Rural Development Programme, these criteria are committed to be unified, to be communicated with the Commission, so that we can have a single procurement and avoid speculation. I will not give examples of what criteria were eligible under the Public Procurement Act and what was done. This topic was actively communicated by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Fund of Agriculture and the team of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev, who is responsible, and by the end of June we finished with these instructions. At the same time, the Fund has examined the projects, correspondence was exchanged with the respective beneficiaries in a ranking, which is up to 130% of the budget. The first orders were launched in mid-August. They're for community centers, schools and kindergartens. I have to check, but now the first municipal contracts are ready. They will be served perhaps next week. And after the wheel has turned, my expectation is that it will be finalized within two months or at least until we start the next reception of the municipalities, which we have set on an indicative schedule to be within the framework of the beginning of December. Once again, I would like to bring you up to speed on the topic that we are already in talks with the Association of Municipalities about the next reception, about what is eligible under the Programme, what is to be financed and whether and how possible changes to the Ordinance should be dealt with, of course, through a monitoring committee, public discussion and so on. In the context of the delay itself, yes, there is. I don't have to tell you, no, I won't. On the contrary, there are reasons. There's objective, there's subjective. Yeah, the subjective reason was I didn't say it with some kind of intent to block from the beginning of the year to May. Literally nothing has been done in these four months. On the subject of the duties of the municipalities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Madam President. Currently, the legislation restricts the conclusion of contracts with candidates who have required liquidity obligations to the State Fund.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The municipalities shall have the possibility to enter into a deferral agreement with the Fund which may be indicated in the declaration and taken into account in the conclusion of a contract. There's a procedure. Of course, the timing itself... Several are the municipalities they owe. They are mainly under outstanding projects from the previous programming period and unrecovered advances on them. There's five or six of them. Of course, there are other, smaller obligations, but the requirement is an obligation to a Paying Agency under a regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u143	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you go, Mr. Abase, for two supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u144	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, my question of the delay in the negotiation is rather rhetorical. I'm asking it not because I don't know the answer. So one of my supplementary questions is: is there, after all, an opinion from the Public Procurement Agency that needs to be laid down in the public procurement criteria in the contracts? And my second question is: in your opinion, how many percent of the cases that municipalities will bring will be won by them, as they say there is a change in the criteria in the course of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u146	What will be laid down in the contracts are instructions for the conduct of public procurement, which are agreed with the Public Procurement Agency. They give instructions on how to avoid the bad practices identified by the previous programming period. On the second question, of course, I cannot answer you. I'm not at all solidarity with what you're saying. Like I said, there's no change in the criteria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u147	Thank you, dear Minister. Attitude? I won't. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Rumen Georgiev on the implementation of the measures implemented in the Operational Programme of the Rural Regions. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u148	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In recent months, the particularly unpleasant effects of climate change have emerged..pouring rains, hails, flooded areas, which have resulted in a large amount of agricultural crop being destroyed. Supported and signed at the meeting in Paris in December 2015 to introduce effective measures to prevent and mitigate the effects of climate change, the In the management of agriculture and the environment, there are strategic objectives which must be implemented in order to ensure national security and they are: to ensure the feeding of the population; to ensure public health; to ensure sustainable development of the regions. To ensure the implementation of the first task, the main priority is the preservation and regeneration of the essential qualities of soil, including soil fertility; soil retention; protection of soil macro- and micro-organisms; protection of groundwater from nitrate pollution and prevention of ammonium emissions caused by excessive fertilization. The lack of a justified and established legal system for carrying out monitoring and controlling measures for the implementation of the principle.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Please explain how and with what measures, actions, programmes, regulations by the Ministry will be implemented the implementation of this strategic objective and in particular: when and how in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry will be activated the priorities and measures provided for in Priority 5 of the Operational Programme of the Rural Development (R &amp; D) measures aimed at promoting resource efficiency, introducing the principles of renewable agriculture and supporting the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resistant economy?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u149	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u150	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Georgiev! The interventions under Priority 5 of the Rural Development Programme aim at promoting resource efficiency and supporting the transition to a low-carbon and climate-resistant economy. To this end, it is planned to be achieved and addressed through the relevant set of measures which contribute to achieving a certain effect allocated within five priority areas. The allocated budget under the five priority areas amounts to 14,8% of the budget of the Rural Development Programme for this programming period. As of July 2017, 24 investment operations have been paid for energy saving and energy efficiency, and RES energy. With regard to the indicator aimed at agricultural and forestry land under management in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, carbon and/or ammonia and areas passing on to more efficient irrigation systems, it is for 24 thousand. hectares. As of August, the financial assistance paid under the individual measures under Priority 5 amounted to 19.6 million. lv. or 3% of all outstanding funds so far. Part of the sub-measures 4.1, 4.2. and 7.2 which relate to the individual focus areas of Priority 5 provide for periods of application for support in 2015 and 2016 as under sub-measures 4.1. Investment in agricultural holdings, and 4.2. Investment in processing has also been concluded and financial assistance contracts currently being implemented by users of financial assistance. In the context of Priority 5 in part of the measures launched so far, priority support for projects related to increasing energy efficiency, projects aimed at investment relating to environmental components, including manure storage, is at stake. These measures provide for an opportunity to support the production of energy for own consumption from waste biomass, which is directly linked to increasing resource efficiency and carbon neutrality. In 2017, the sub-measures of measure 8 aimed at supporting the forestry sector are also planned to be launched, thereby providing support for afforestation, restoration of forest fire damage and activities improving the sustainability and environmental value of forest ecosystems. In 2015, measures 10, 11 and 12 were also launched, and the Water Framework Directive and measure 13 payments for areas facing natural and other specific constraints of the Programme. These measures support a number of activities which lead to a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions in the atmosphere, as well as directions aimed at preventive activities to combat climate change. The aim of these measures is to contribute to the functioning of healthier ecosystems, which limit negative impacts on environmental components. In fact, the implementation of Priority 5 is enshrined in the implementation of all those measures, which are in the components related precisely to the environmental objective. Here we do not create a single... reception for something specific, and they are located in these projects and account is precisely for these assets or these costs in the different focus series, so this priority is being taken into account in such a way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u151	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! In front of me is the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the sector of Agriculture, Food, Fisheries and Forests and a report for the hundred days, and nowhere on this topic of Priority 5 is spoken. As a result, according to Eurostat Bulgaria is last in productivity from a unit of natural resources. They spent 50 million. lv. of the 250 million planned. lv. for compensation for the wild geese that ate the crops from the arable areas in Bulgaria. At the same time, according to the published communication of 22 August 2017 on the results of a European Union study, one of the largest air pollutants comes from agriculture, mainly from the huge use of mineral nitrogen fertilisers. In our country, after the opening of the penalty procedure for violation of the Nitra Directive of excessive use of manure and mineral fertilizers, we wrote another pacquili.. I apologize for the expression and deliberately did not make any changes to the regulations for the introduction of one of the fundamental principles of the European Union............................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And so far, on this topic, as with Mrs. Taneva, who should have proposed amendments from mid-2015 as well as with you, a complete silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u153	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Porozhanov for the dodger? There's not gonna be a duvet. We are moving on to the last question by the MP Svetla Bachvarova on the implementation of the food safety policy. Here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is related to the policy that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry conducts with regard to food safety. In the last month it became clear that in the countries of the European Union, including Bulgaria, the use of health-threatening eggs was registered in production of which fipronil contamination was allowed. Many of the criticisms were directed at the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which, accordingly, had to explain when it received the notification, how it reacted, what are the laboratory tests it does, but at the same time for me at least a person who has an idea of how the Ministry of Agriculture has many structures that work on the subject, remained in the background precisely those structures that are also responsible for food safety policy. It is about: firstly, the "Life" sectors, and also a policy on the agri-food chain. I have tried, I have made a reference to the Rules of Procedure in these two Directorates working 50 people who also coordinate and assist the Minister with regard to food safety. I would also like to say that in 2016 a Risk Assessment Centre for the Food Chain was established, which was separated from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, also with 50 people. There's no sound, no groaning about what it's about and what risk it is. Rather, the site of this structure has what they do and I must tell you that with complete amazement I have seen that there are 14 guidelines on which they are working, and in one year they have published 4 reports. Of these 4 reports, three are from external experts, one only from an expert who is of state in the Agency itself. My question to you is: how is coordination between the different structures in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the two executive agencies, and also the directorates, so that the Bulgarian consumers are truly protected not only with information what will happen, but also prevent them from having a sufficiently broad opportunity, and you can react when creating such risk situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u155	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u156	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Bachvarova! A few words about fipronilla. I don't have to read, we notified. I also mentioned a little earlier at today's meeting the topic is not in Bulgaria, we have become the recipient until the time of three shipments. The first in March, from which very few quantities were banned, found in storage and withdrawn from the market. The second shipment is from June and was banned 100% of the next 500 kg of production, which is over 400 kg in stock, and the rest that were sent. For the second we have notified on the basis of the checks that started by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Information in the information system, notification is made by Bulgaria, with which we inform about similar imports of egg powder in Bulgaria. The third, for which we have received information these days, yes, it is again from Germany, about a 1440 kg frozen egg melange, of which more than 1,100 kg were found at the warehouse site, which were banned. The remaining 300 kg have been invested in certain industries and are currently being sought and seized from the market. What I have also told you in the framework of the debate in the Commission, however, a certain phenomenon of a criminal nature has definitely been stated by absolutely everyone that there is no danger to public health. I don't want to pretend to be a specialist here, to say what standards and so on would be one injury or another. What has been undertaken by the Food Agency and the Ministry is the launch that must be completed at the end of this week, as the deadline has been two weeks, the verification of absolutely all producers of poultry products, of course, and eggs, for the use of similar So far, there have been no violations in this area from all our producers' checks. By chance, due to some information, the contents of the egg batch imported from Poland were verified. Laboratory samples were carried out and the samples were negative for fipronil. Of course, the RASFF information system is currently constantly leaking information about various countries. I have told you from all countries now 26 European countries are affected by the fact that there are similar products on the market and 19 countries outside the European Union. You are interested in what is happening in the structures of the Ministry. You know, the Centre was created by a special Risk Assessment Act. In the context of the fipronil crisis, they have produced two informations: the fipronil in eggs derived from a food crisis in Germany, Belgium and the Netherlands, and another information which is produced to the Risk Communication Directorate of the European Food Safety Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For the line.. prof. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u158	Thank you. Dear Minister, I have actually not heard an answer to the question of what is coordination between the different structures responsible for the same food safety policy. Since there is no coordination and everyone works for themselves, this means that you, as a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, will not have enough levers and opportunities to react when necessary. Fipronil is a private case. From now on, there are a lot of risks in terms of food and the food chain. It was no coincidence that yesterday information came out in the.. Daily... that this is one of the problems that all countries pay attention to, i.e. the safety of the food chain. Provided that you have a hundred people working in the structures of the Ministry, and they prepare information accordingly, this information is not available on the site of the Risk Management Centre. How do you think you can rely solely and only on all criticisms to take away the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency? Far be it from me that this is the most perfect structure, but it is the control structure. Furthermore, my question is also a direct request to pay attention to the functions of these remaining structures. I'm sorry, but how is the control function that the Agency performs is duplicated with control of milk in the Department of Animal Economy and in the Directorate of Agricultural Chain Policy? How do they control it? Or are plant protection preparations and their records also assessed at the Risk Management Centre?! That's just not gonna happen! Everything is messed up, in my opinion the administration has taken certain functions that are interesting to it, and the Food Agency is left with things that are most difficult to implement or coordinate in laboratory research. That's what the directorate is doing! In the quality of what will it coordinate laboratory activity and how will it coordinate it? There is no coordination of the Directorate with the Food Agency and the Risk Assessment Centre. There's coordination with the Ministry of Health. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In my opinion, this policy requires much greater expertise in the division of functions and responsibilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u159	Hole, Mr. Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u160	Thank you very much for your commitment to what structures do, only we didn't get into personal details about what this guy does, what he does. I don't agree at all with what coordination is. This Risk Analysis Center was established in parliament by law. Yeah, I've never worked with him before. Yeah, I don't have time, I didn't work with him. The other directorate you mention - about the food chain, yes, it is leading in many of the functions, including in the Food Act, which we will present to you right now, including food coordination, including food chain law. Let's not go in right now with who with what, what documents and how he communicates - and I don't think this is a topic that can be discussed within two or three minutes of this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u161	Thank you, dear Minister. And the last question, again by professor. Bachvarova, is about registration of the legal grounds for use of agricultural land. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u162	Thank you. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! My question is about the implementation of the amendments to the Agricultural Aid Act. According to the amendments to this Law in 2015, the Commission has decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. - Art. 41, para. 3, The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry had to develop a specialized software product to register the legal grounds for the use of agricultural land. The idea of creating the software product was really to ease and to carry out a higher level of control regarding the use of the legal grounds for land use with specific verification and information registers, which would allow for verification at all times. In addition, in this register, the idea was that new legal bases were registered only if there was a change compared to the previous year, and not every year all farmers carry such a huge pile of documents and therefore municipal services are very difficult even to do any initial control, given that the time in which they provide information is limited. In the previous National Assembly, I asked Minister Taneva whether the software was ready. Then I was answered that there are such software products that replace, but public procurement has not started, the job is not written and at all a bunch of objective reasons that did not lead to the realization of this text in the Law. To you as a minister, taking part in the management of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry - it is important to know which of the laws should be applied and therefore to make efforts, my question is related to this: will such a software product be available and will the requirements of the Law be met in this direction or will we again have any administrative and other obstacles to the realization of this product? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u163	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u164	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Bachvarova! Under § 20 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on support for farmers and the new version of art. 41 of the same Law, para. 3 of this Article provides that the legal grounds for the use of agricultural land are to be registered in a specialized software product created by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. As early as 2011 and 2012, prior to the entry into force of the above amendment, the Ministry identified the need to build a modern software system involving a database, farmers and their holdings, i.e. the farm register, and a geographical information system to store, process, control and update personal data, spatial attribute data supporting the main activities of the Ministry, to manage related processes. Such an integrated system should cover in a uniform environment and format the spatial, attribute and all other available and future types of data, including at least: data on the single system for civil registration and administrative service of the population; data from the map of restored property and from the cadastral map of the Republic of Bulgaria; data from the way of permanent use of the land, maintenance of agricultural land and so on, available in the system for identification of agricultural parcels; data from the digital orthophotocard of the territory of the country; specific digital data for different parts of the territory of the country, including areas with specific restrictions and so on; data from the ISAAC of the Agricultural Fund, Paying Agency; data from the integrated system of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency; identification of animals and so on; data from the forest fund available in the forest management agency. Currently, data on registered legal grounds for agricultural land in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests exist in decentralised form, as you mentioned, as a set of specialized softmodels intended for registration of ownership of agricultural land, the so-called farmyards. It should be noted that after any amendment and addition to the regulations governing land relations, there should be a mandatory upgrade of the relevant specialized software. In recent years, the Ministry has twice launched public procurements to build an improved integrated system, which for various reasons have not been finalised. At present, a working group has been appointed from 1 September to prepare technical specifications, selection criteria, methodology for determining a complex evaluation of the tender, including assessment indicators and their relative severity and so on, a working group to prepare the documents and to be subject to the development of a geographical information system (GIS) for the needs of the Rural Development Programme. The draft documents should be submitted by 29 September 2017. I'm sorry I repeated what you said. There's all kinds of systems. They don't talk to each other. BABBH's information system cannot be automatically used by the Paying Agency, BABBH's information system is not infinitely perfect, you know, from the entrance it is filled in by veterinarians for animals. Unfortunately, there is an opportunity to change it quite often. There must be a lot of buffers here. Our goal, let us not sound a bit uplifted, but one such huge ministry must have a unified management system in which all agencies talk. The truth is that such a development requires a very serious capacity first, to do the job itself, because the job itself is important - what to include inside, then IT the capacity to develop, the way to present it is not impossible, and then it is a lot of money, a lot of money from the point of view of realising this capital investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u165	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, here you go, Professor. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u166	Dear Minister! Thank you for your reply and I really hope that by the end of September you will have a job which will enable the public procurement to take place from now on. I do not only agree with you that this costs significant financial resources. The other financial resources that are spent on each of the systems that act - for mistakes and for control - are much more. Provided that there is such a system established to implement any change and between structures to have such coordination, it seems to me that in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the different agencies will speak much better, and everyone will be protected from the point of view of the reliability of the information. I know, I understand, it's hard, but it has to be done sometime. I wish success in this venture because it is one step ahead in the management of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u167	Thank you, dear Professor. Bachvarova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? I won't. We're graduating enthusiastically, with good wishes. We should thank the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Mr. Porozhanov for today's parliamentary control. We move on to a question to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. The question will be asked by Mr. Georgi Gokov and it is about unfounded requirements and conditions for beneficiaries under the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, my question is provoked by my meetings with many employers. I describe them as many, they may not be many, but the fact that they exist is disturbing. They are beneficiaries of procedures for providing grants under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." Taking into account contracts concluded for the costs of subsidised employment of unemployed persons employed by them by the beneficiary concerned, it is required to provide all possible evidence that the persons were actually unemployed during their registration in the Employment Agency. The status of unemployed persons, as well as the body certifying them, are set out in the Employment Promotion Act and its Implementation Rules. Regardless of the fact that the persons were registered at the Labour Bureau, although they have guidance letters from these departments, the employees of the Ministry require the beneficiary to provide data on ownership of the unemployed in commercial companies, information on the activity, turnover and payments of such companies, insurance reports and so on. A large part of these documents cannot be obtained from the beneficiary company because it does not have such a right, and the company itself acts according to the circumstances certified by the only competent state authority. As a result of the administrative arbitrariness, I regret to call it that, but this is true of the employees of the Ministry dozens of companies in the country, mainly small and medium-sized enterprises, have been refused reimbursement in huge amounts. I remind you that the Employment Agency is a secondary authorising officer of a budget to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy and it is at least illogical, if not illegal, that the portfolio ministry does not recognise circumstances certified by this Agency. Moreover, such administrative adversities were not applied during the previous programming period, during which the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" was very often given as an example of a successfully implemented programme. The questions to you, Minister, are: within what deadlines will this wicked one be suspended, I would call it, practice, and how will the specific employers who have been unlawfully sanctioned by the managing authority of the Operational Programme be awarded? How will you execute the Prime Minister's order to ease the administrative burden when in fact, the ministry that you run introduces new and unnecessary bureaucratic burdens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u169	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Minister Petkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u170	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as Managing Authority of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" is developing for each open procedure. It lists indicative documents relating to the reporting of activities. Where necessary, the managing authority may require additional documents to demonstrate the eligibility of the target group, the activities carried out or expenditure incurred on the respective items of the project budget. This shall not, under any circumstances, be done in breach of the current legal framework or the beneficiary's burden. In the case of inclusion in project activities, unemployed or inactive persons should also meet eligibility conditions specific to each procedure. These circumstances shall be declared by the persons involved in the project activity at the stage of the contract of employment with the employer. In order to reduce the administrative burden both for the persons employed under the projects and for employers as beneficiaries, additional documents are required only for those persons for whom the non-compliance of the declared data is found. For example, persons involved in employment who are the sole owner of capital and/or partners in companies are required documentary evidence issued by a competent authority that companies do not engage in business. The documents shall be required by the beneficiary as an employer and a party to the administrative contract concluded to grant grants. Therefore, I do not agree that there is an excess of the authority of the administration or a deliberate difficulty in reporting activities. On the contrary, the managing authority shall always compare the declared circumstances with the information available in public registers and the information provided by other state or municipal authorities. To conclude, I would like to inform you that in order to speed up and optimize the process of processing payment requests, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is taking measures to reduce the administrative burden for beneficiaries. In this direction, action has been taken to conclude agreements for access to the electronic services of the National Revenue Agency, which will create the necessary prerequisites for a part of the above-mentioned circumstances to be verified in a professional capacity. Amendments to the Employment Promotion Act have been prepared to allow the legitimate exchange of personal data between the Managing Authority of the Programme and the Employment Agency. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u171	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. I know all the things you say. The beneficiary's management shall allow the managing authority to require additional documents. But I have drawn your attention to a very simple thing - persons registered as unemployed, with guidance letters from the Department of Labour, the managing authority does not believe its own part of the Ministry and is questioning a guiding letter. Well, if we really question this and we find out, then the entire registration in the Employment Bureau of the unemployed person employed under the Programme is in violation of the legislation. Perhaps the words are strong overpowering the powers, but I am telling you that on this basis dozens of companies in the country, especially small and medium-sized companies and businesses, are difficult. I understand that additional documents are required to protect against fraud the funds under the Operational Programme, but when we exceed, everything goes beyond the norm. As they say, we tie ourselves up on every occasion, but it doesn't sound good and it doesn't sound good in public. Perhaps when you enter the electronic data access system, things will be resolved, but now in the face of the people who are users of the funds under the Operational Programme, it does not look good. For the people who are damaged by the refusal of reimbursement, again I tell you, these are quite serious about their size options, there is no excuse. Moreover, companies that are beneficiaries have nowhere to take this information with their own powers and resources to provide it to the managing authority. Thank you for your answer once again. Please do not lock ourselves in this formal response only, but to recheck the circumstances and if there is a possibility to alleviate these procedures for requiring additional documents, to shorten. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Minister Petkov, will you take advantage of your right to the coat? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I would just like to clarify and give an example of a situation that really requires this verification, and without questioning the status of one person as unemployed it is necessary to carry out such an examination. For example, for the programme and procedure, a new place of work is a situation in which a person is registered at the Department of Labour and is always considered an unemployed person, but when checked in the available public systems it is found that the same is the manager of several companies or partners in others. In this case, given the data declared by the person, documents issued by the National Revenue Agency are required to certify that the companies in question are not engaged in business. If, after submitting documents issued by the National Revenue Agency, it is found that the companies in which the person is involved are developing business, the costs for that person incurred under the Project shall not be recognised. That's why this check is needed, and I tried to give it with a specific example. And with regard to the commitments made for simplification, relief, I can assure you once again that they will be implemented as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is again from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the termination of procedures for providing grants under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development." You have the floor, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u176	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, my question to you concerns the pride of the ruling party... the use of European funds under the Operational Programme.. Human Resources Development........................................................................................ In the case described, the termination of the grant procedure under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" seems to have no reason to be proud. On 5 July 2017, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as Managing Authority of the Operational Programme suspended two procedures for providing grants under the Programme The reasons made public for this decision shall be based on the significant number of project proposals submitted which did not meet the requirements for administrative compliance and eligibility under the procedures. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 of the Law on the Management of Funds from the European Structural and Investment Funds, imperatively, are defined cases where the grant procedure may be terminated. None of these procedures are subject to the circumstances required by the Law, which leads to the conclusion that they have been unlawfully terminated and that your administration has, in its sole discretion, established additional criteria, regardless of the explicit will of the legislator. As a result of these actions, there will be damage to a large number of eligible municipalities, companies and non-governmental organizations that have submitted project proposals under the procedures. Mr. Minister, the questions are: will you take action to abolish unlawful administrative acts to end the two procedures? Are there deficiencies in the work of the Managing Authority under the Operational Programme which have led to the large number of project proposals that do not meet the conditions for administrative compliance and eligibility? Who are the responsible officials of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? Will they bear sanctions for their actions leading up to this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u177	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Minister Petkov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u178	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! "Human Resources Development' is the first operational programme to apply the approach to simplifying cost reporting. The aim is instead of focusing on the reporting of supporting documents, for beneficiaries to focus on the implementation and achievement of concrete results. It is precisely because the approach is new for our country that has created some difficulties in preparing and describing the projects with which it is applied. The reasons for the termination of the two schemes were based on the result of the evaluation phase of administrative compliance and eligibility. A large number of project proposals have made similar technical errors by candidates. This would lead to the rejection of many projects on a formal basis. After it became clear that an excessive number of errors were made in filling out the application forms, the Managing Authority decided to take action to further simplify the way they were completed. So now some of the information is already on the line, so it will not lead to the rejection of projects on a formal basis. The purpose of the Managing Authority is to obtain quality proposals to contribute to the implementation of the Programme's objectives when announcing grant procedures. Therefore, the evaluation sessions in both procedures had to be terminated and the public coordination of the changed application conditions was announced again. Currently, both schemes are active in finding projects, with deadlines running out at the beginning of October. With regard to the legal basis of the decision to terminate the procedure, I inform you that in this case it is undoubtedly an administrative procedure for issuing an individual administrative act by a competent authority. Therefore, the rules of the Administrative-Processional Code concerning the reopening of proceedings for the issue of an administrative act have been applied subsidically. The decisions shall be suspended on the basis of the provision of art. 99, p. 2 of the Administrative Procedure Code, duly motivated and there is no reason to believe that they are unlawful and unfounded. Finally, I would like to emphasise that the procedures have been terminated not because of personal errors, but in order to enable more project proposals to come to the substantive assessment. The setting of new reporting requirements through simplified rules has been carried out after consultation of audit bodies and the European Commission. The capacity of the team of the Operational Program "Human Resources Development" has been built for years. This is a leading programme that always introduces the new requirements of European regulations first and there is no reason to doubt the professionalism of the team of employees who have practical skills, the discipline and preparation required for the management of European programmes. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u179	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u180	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, there is no doubt in my mind about the capacity of the employees who are working under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and manage it because this capacity has been built for years, tens of years. The point is, now you've been quoting some ground. I am not ready to agree or disagree with that reason. In the conversation with the beneficiary companies, which have been damaged by the cancellation of this procedure, I saw that art. 36 has not been cited in the grounds for termination of the procedure. People who have been wronged and who have had regular documents are entitled to dissatisfaction. Wouldn't it have been more logical if you had rejected all the projects that didn't meet the conditions and the procedure under the Programme, approved those and then with the rest of the money of the 15 million that are under this Programme and which are now being delayed, the procedure would be announced again. It is now like in the Bulgarian saying. "During the dry forests and the wetlands." The right beneficiaries are damaged because there are outstanding beneficiaries. The reasons for termination are based on the result of the first stage of evaluation of administrative compliance and eligibility, in which a very large number of project proposals are dropped between 35 and 55%. This is not serious! What is the meaning of between 35 and 55%?! These 20% difference what do the companies mean or are they not regular?! And what do we do with the other 65%, 45% of which are regular?! They're wronged! Based on the logic of public procurement, because this is almost by the power of public procurement if people have filed documents, but there are some outstanding documents, and we end the whole procedure, what are the responsible beneficiaries for this?! I ask the question from this point of view in order to specify the conditions before the operational programme schemes are put into effect. Let's clarify the conditions on them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, will you use your right to dodge? No. Thank you for the participation of Minister Petkov in today's parliamentary control. We move on to the next question, which is to Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, who will answer a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova concerning Ordinance No 16 of 8 December 2016 on quality management in the institutions issued by the Minister of Education and Science and promulgated in the Official Journal of the European Union, pk. 100 of 16 December 2016 Here you go, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In accordance with art. 22, para. 4 and in conjunction with para. 2, p. 15 The Minister of Education and Science then issued a Regulation on Quality Management in the institutions on 8 December 2016. According to this Ordinance, the quality of education is the degree of compliance between the educational product, which is also offered the requirements of the regulations, the degree of compliance with the expectations of citizens and users of the service, i.e. students, parents, employers, also, notice, and with the expectations of other interested parties. According to art. 271 of the cited Law quality management in the institutions is a very complex process that is based on analysis, planning, carrying out activities, evaluating and making improvements. All of this is done in accordance with the terms and conditions laid down by the State Educational Standard. Since this process is really extremely complex and relevant, in practice this is the whole activity of the institution, and it affects many participants in this process, it is extremely important how the essence, objectives, ideas set out in this Regulation will be understood so that they can be implemented. Since the Transitional and Final Provisions states that the first year already included in this process is 2016/2017, i.e. it is already over, please answer the question: what information is there in the Ministry of Education and Science on what stage of implementation is Regulation No 16 and what conclusions are being drawn for the fulfilment of the objectives set out in it?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u183	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. For an answer, the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. Here you go, Mr. Valchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs Simeonova! The application of the Law on pre-school and school education is also related to the actions of the accompanying state educational standards regulated in art. 22 of the Law, including the state educational standard for quality management in institutions. It is established by Regulation No 16 of 8 December 2016 on quality management in the institutions. Its implementation will have a positive impact on a wide range of stakeholders, improving the individual progress of each child and student in terms of its educational results, improving the quality of the education provided in kindergartens and schools and optimizing their organizational development. Thirdly, by increasing citizens' confidence in these institutions. These are actually the main goals. The first specific objective of the Ordinance is to define the conditions and procedures under which the analysis, planning, implementation of activities is carried out and to improve the work of kindergartens and schools which are tasked with carrying out the policy of improving the quality of education. The effect of the Ordinance is related to the creation of conditions for the implementation of the conceptual requirement of the Pre-school and School Education Act by applying a systematic and integrated approach that ensures the interconnection and coherence of its main components. One of them is the assessment which, according to art. 271, para. 3 of the Law is done by self-assessment and inspection. In this regard, the second specific objective of the Ordinance is to determine the conditions and procedures under which self-assessment is carried out. Children's gardens and schools themselves define the activities, procedures and criteria by which it is carried out. According to § 1, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Ordinance, which you also referred to, for the academic year 2016/2017 and 2017/2018, the self-assessment ends by 1 August 2018. The conclusions on the achieved objectives and on the effectiveness of the Regulation can be made best after the expiry of that period. The results of the actions of the Ordinance need to be analysed in the context of the implementation of the Law on pre-school and school education in its entirety, together with the results of the operation of the other regulations and regulations defining the state educational standards under art. 22 of the Law. Thank you for this question, Mrs Simeonova, because it really seems that this regulation and this part of the system have remained at the back of the discussion over the last year. Quality assessment is a continuous process. It is part of the continuous process of organizational development, as recorded in the Ordinance. The focus on this process is not to run certain procedures, but to develop a long-term organisational culture for managing and improving the quality of education. Perhaps the direction in which the Ordinance can be developed is to add additional possible quality management mechanisms. Currently, the main focus is on evaluation. Of course, the Ordinance does not exist on its own, it is part of the overall unit of control and evaluation, if I may say so, which may have found projection in all other state educational standards and, above all, in the standard of inspection, which is intended to be carried out as an external assessment, including the management of the quality management system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u185	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Simeonova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Surely there must be a standard for the quality of education. It is in line with national and European requirements. I put this question and you correctly said because it was put by fellow teachers and directors who are worried about the practical implementation of the Regulation. Why is that? Firstly, we are united on the issue that quality management is an extremely complex process and requires, firstly, a lot of time, sufficient preparation. In addition, participants in this process must have accepted and understood the philosophy, nature, methods and ways in which it should be carried out. A certain part of the colleagues believe that in this form the Regulation does not give the conditions and order in which this should happen. The texts are very general, interpreted in a different way and cannot be defined systems in the individual institutions which also allow for comparability of the results, at least by institutions of the same type. About time. The Regulation was adopted three months after the start of the academic year 2016/2017, which is the year of assessment. The working group to provide the procedures, activities, indicators, criteria, valuation instruments according to the Ordinance had to be established by 16 February 2017, that is, five months after the start of the school year. Teachers and representatives of pedagogical staff are primarily involved in the working group. This is once again a new test, which requires great work, time to be realized. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. I would like to raise the question that many colleagues are asking: perhaps it is also time for the quality management regulation to be refined, specified, with precise and clear requirements that give comparability between the results of individual institutions. In addition, the time limits to be set shall be fulfilled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u187	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. For the back, Mr. Secretary? No. This concludes the questions to the Minister of Education and Science Mr. Krasimir Valchev. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going to ask the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski about the policy of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications on security at Sofia Airport during the Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018 to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u188	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear Members of the House! Dear Minister, on the eve of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, one of the most important topics is the preparation of this important moment for the state and the provision of the necessary security measures in all spheres and in particular on the territory of Sofia Airport, which will be the main point of entry and exit for officials from the countries of the European Union and representatives of the European Commission. Your response will be extremely important to us because in the public domain, contrary to expectations, they circulate information that does not correspond to what all of us want to do to ensure the necessary safety actions for both important guests and ordinary passengers. Just to remind you that in your media interview, I will not mention where, you announced that there was a security breach at the airport through the admission of an external company to the information database. As I recall during the already terminated procedure for the concession of airports, the applicants had access to absolutely all information, including the number of security officers, the routes of electricity and water networks, and so on. Let us not forget that Sofia airport had also become a point for transferring illegal migrants to conflict zones from the Middle East to Western Europe. It is important to know: are measures taken in this direction in view of the upcoming Presidency and the obvious need to open additional checkpoints? Are teams prepared with the necessary preparation and censure? Are you familiar with the criteria for selecting these employees? Are the actions of the management of Sofia airport adequate with regard to the physical and technical preparation of the upcoming increased level of security? To these and many other questions we expect an answer from you, Dear Minister, and we hope that they will bring a great deal of comfort to both the MPs and the Bulgarian citizens, because the upcoming Presidency is an extremely important test not only for the airport of Sofia and the security that will be provided there, but also for the entire Bulgarian state, so that our guests who will arrive here feel really that we have put everything at the necessary level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u189	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. For a response, the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Ivaylo Moskovski. Here you are, Mr. Moskovsky, you have five minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u190	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov, Mr. Svilenski! In accordance with art. 8, para. 2 of the Civil Aviation Act The Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall exercise its powers under the management and control of civil aviation, civil aircraft and facilities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria through the Directorate General for Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which shall also be the responsible authority for civil aviation security in Bulgaria, which shall coordinate the activities between natural and legal persons to achieve civil aviation security. In view of the above-mentioned legal powers of the administration, DG GUI for the past six months of 2017 took place at Sofia airport: 1. During the months of January and February, an inspection was carried out under Chapter 1 Security of the Airports. The National Civil Aviation Security Programme has also conducted open security personnel tests. 2. For the months of January, February, an inspection was carried out on Chapter Four Travellers and hand luggage from the National Civil Aviation Security Programme, including open security personnel tests. 3. In February, an inspection was carried out on Chapter Six of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme. 4. During the months of February and March, an inspection was carried out on Chapter 5 of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme. 5. In March, an inspection and hidden tests were carried out under Chapter 2 of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme. 6. During the months of May and June, a security audit was carried out, in view of the checks and inspections carried out, the findings are that the security measures implemented at the airport of Sofia are in line with the requirements of the National Civil Aviation Security Programme and the national and European legislation in force. As regards the security measures at Sofia airport, which should be taken in connection with the implementation of the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, I inform you that DG GVA is planning to carry out the following: by the end of September, the meeting of the Civil Aviation Security Council, which is an advisory body to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; the Minister of Interior; the Minister of Defence and the Chairman of the State Agency 16k, para. 3 of the Civil Aviation Act. Secondly, the Civil Aviation Security Council should analyse current security measures implemented at Sofia Airport and the need to undertake and implement additional security measures, if necessary, in relation to the forthcoming Presidency of the Council of the European Union. Thirdly, the GVA Directorate-General will take preventive action in order to carry out additional inspection checks at the airport of Sofia on security in the last quarter of this year, literally before the Presidency. Fourth, DG GVA will carry out an assessment of the competence of all the security officers that Sofia airport intends to hire further as people to secure the security measures of the airport. It takes into account the additional staff that will be needed to support the activities of the Presidency. Fifthly, DG GUI will carry out an extraordinary inspection of the effectiveness of VIP-A security measures implemented and the security control measures for the VIP-A security area immediately prior to the beginning of the Presidency. Sixth, at the end of July, the Ministry of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union 2018 has submitted preliminary information to DG GUI about the already planned meetings, the bodies of the European Union and the international meetings to which our country will host, as President of the Council in the first half of 2018. In this regard, the relevant airport administrations, which will serve the flights of the visiting delegations, are concerned, in addition to the airport Sofia, airports Varna, Burgas and Plovdiv, they are notified of these planned events and should inform DG GUI by 15 September 2017 of the establishment of the necessary organisation with the participation of all the competent representatives of the airport operators, border police authorities, customs authorities and any other services relevant to the security of the airport infrastructure within that time to ensure the safety and security of the flights with the participants in those events, with a view to the effective conduct of the meeting during the Presidency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u191	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, Mr. Svilensky, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u192	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister Moskovski, Minister Karanikolov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Minister, you've made a statement on the question we've asked. You explained what happened, what was about to happen. I will now give two facts and, accordingly, on the basis of these facts will be both additional questions. From June 6, 2017 until now "September 7," that is, until yesterday, does not operate the automated security x-ray system of Terminal 2. It is operated on an emergency X-ray, which relies only on the subjective assessment of the X-ray operator for the detection of prohibited items for transport. Second fact. At present, there is no maintenance contract for the video surveillance system that gives continuous refusals, and airport employees do not have the training and capacity to remove the damage. This creates a prerequisite for falling into a situation of impossible video control of security areas. In this regard, these are both additional questions. Have the necessary provisions been prepared and implemented, which oblige the video control staff to monitor in real time on a schedule, based on a risk assessment, the airport areas where there is a crowding of passengers, greeters, consignors, and those where security baggage is sorted? Secondly, is security equipment correct and can it be a reliable guarantee of effectiveness in the security verification? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u193	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. For the answer to the two questions asked, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Svilenski, I am currently not informed of any technical facilities in the security system at Sofia airport that are not working or are not working. I don't have that kind of information right now. If any, I undertake to check personally, respectively, the defects to be removed and adapted to use as soon as possible. As regards internal regulations and rules on how security authorities work and on direct video surveillance, I sincerely hope that Sofia Airport will respect everything as it is written by regulations and colleagues to carry out the so-called online surveillance. I also make a commitment to be checked and a special examination will be appointed on this subject if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u195	Thank you, dear Minister. About attitude? Mr. Svilensky, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u196	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! This is the point of parliamentary control, of parliamentary questions and questions, when we ask you questions about certain things that you should be treated and, together with joint efforts, make sure that the security of holding the Presidency is at the necessary level. Of the answers you have given to the questions we have asked, Mr. Minister, several things have not become clear, which I will now try to summarize and, of course, if you agree to undertake this commitment to their removal. Was there a time limit within which the airport management had to report on the readiness to meet the avant-garde groups under the Presidency, and if there was such a time limit, was this reported to the Ministry for the Presidency of the European Union? It did not become clear whether the NSO recommendations for securing the security of the entrance for motor vehicles in the government hall were implemented, whether additional crossing points were provided for arriving passengers who would not use the government hall or VIP-B, were corridors provided for their rapid passage? When we talk about safety, we must say that it includes aviation security. In the answers regarding aviation security, you did not mention whether the prescription of March 2013 of DG GUI for the supply and the availability of special liquid, the so-called Liters to maintain the airport in stock, as this water is necessary for the implementation of the so-called foam cushion and is used by fire crews in an emergency landing, do not give yourself God. According to our information, this water is not maintained in the available quantities and it is not explained why. I guess the price isn't that expensive for this thing to be done, but it's some kind of oversight in the department or the people who deal with this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u197	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. The procedure is over, Minister. If there's anything you'd like to say outside the procedure? [[Reply from Minister Ivaylo Moskovski.]] Let us thank Minister Moskovski for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We're moving on to the last group of questions. They are to the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov. A question from Gergana Stefanova on the initiative of the European Commission for a start-up and developing business. Here you are, Mrs. Stefanova, to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u198	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question today relates to the initiative of the European Commission for starting and developing business. Since the beginning of autumn 2016 until today, when it comes to small and medium-sized business development, in the European Union, the most useful phrase is: from starting to developing business. On 20 February 2017, the Competitiveness Council discussed the initiative of the European Commission for a start-up and developing business. The Council had a priority to find ways to facilitate business within the single European market, as well as for its cross-border expansion. Given the expected positive impact on jobs, growth and improved access to funding for newly created enterprises, the Commission's approach was generally adopted. The Council proposed that the European Union's programme should have a more friendly approach to small and medium-sized enterprises. Some delegations have proposed the creation of a single VAT area for the European Union. On 6 April 2017, the Competitiveness Council held an informal meeting on the initiative of the European Commission for a start-up and developing business. The aim of this meeting was to find a way to help start-ups provide and ensure their full innovation potential for job creation. The Council recognised that the start-up and developing business in enterprises play a very important role in supporting the European agenda relating to the objectives of the social economy, the circular economy, the single European digital market and the digitalisation of industry. I would like to know what actions the Ministry of Economy and its two agencies are planning to take.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u199	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stefanova. Mr. Karanikolov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Stefanova, first of all, to thank you for your patience and for the question, but this issue is always up to date, every day. Since the answer is done a long time ago, I will allow myself to finally inform you of the last month of August what we have done. The initiative to support start-up and developing enterprises of the European Commission aims to create a favourable environment for the development of innovative enterprises in Europe. It addresses three main problems "Administrative obstacles," finding financial and business partners and access to funding. With regard to the business environment, measures are addressed to reduce administrative burdens, something that the entire government knows and works, to the whole business in general; e-government and complex administrative procedures, as well as modernisation of the common VAT system; improvement of insolvency procedures and a second chance labour law and commercial policy. The European Commission shall hold meetings on the role of partner community through support for events, platforms, networks at European Union level through the "Startep Europe" initiative. At national level. The specific measures relating to start-up and developing enterprises are implemented within the framework of the National Strategy for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises 2014 European funds under the Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" under separate procedures finance start-up innovation enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises, such as Priority Axis 1: "Technical development and innovation" support actions supporting thematic areas of the innovation strategy for smart specialization. Priority 2 - Axis 2 - Entrepreneurship and capacity for growth and support actions for realization and entrepreneurial ideas, disclosure and strengthening, and management capacity, improving quality and promoting the use of information and communication technologies. Operating programme The initiative for small and medium-sized enterprises is a financial instrument for unlimited guarantees to support the credit risk of loans, loan payments or guarantees of small and medium-sized enterprises. Since February 2017, all 10 banks with which a grant agreement has been signed have started active lending activities for enterprises. The Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises has implemented a number of national and international initiatives, some of them aimed at stimulating the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. In April there was a participation in the city of Berlin, which is one of the most significant events in Europe. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm gonna need some time to apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u201	I think the coworkers won't mind.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u202	Thank you. This event is at one of the first places in connection with entrepreneurship, investors, potential partners, students, including representatives of risk funds and private capital. There are also business angels involved. Bulgaria was elected partner country on this issue. Various initiatives, and I can mention the "Webit" which, you know, is one of the leading events for technology, which have been a priority for the last eight years. The event provides an exceptional opportunity for representatives of Bulgarian enterprises in the information and communication events sector. There are also various training programs for entrepreneurship. For the period 2016 these are 45 trainings. We have now received some up-to-date information yesterday from the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium Enterprises, proposing by the end of the year a timetable for all regions of Bulgaria to make attendances and trainings, conferences to get acquainted with all starters and small and medium-sized enterprises how to apply in procedures, i.e. to improve culture. Another thing that is extremely important and I would like to mention it: next Wednesday, under the initiative of the Ministry of Economy, an association of start-ups will be established, the start-ups, because so far they have not been nationally represented and could not defend themselves with their interests. We intend from now on to include this association in the National Economic Council, which is at the Ministry of Economy, so that start-ups can have access to the big, big business, as well as put their problems to be solved in the National Economic Council. Finally, as you know, there may already be talk in the public domain, by the end of the year, I hope personally after one month, it will be launched under the Operational Program "Innovation and Competitiveness" a vouchers programme that is aimed at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises worth up to 30 000 BGN, where they will apply without administrative burdens, i.e. with an application for participation and a declaration that they are not in bankruptcy, will be awarded grants for acquiring DMA, for software products, for patents so that we can relieve and assist small and medium-sized enterprises. We work with all other departments, with your help, with the Economic Commission, also the National Assembly, so that we can assist the starting, small and medium-sized business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u203	Thank you, dear Minister. I think it was very helpful what we heard. Here's a line for you, Mrs. Stefanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u204	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. You've been pretty thorough. I am satisfied with it in part and in the future we will follow the initiatives that the Ministry has undertaken for the ever more stable development of small and medium-sized businesses.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u205	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stefanova. And the last question about today's parliamentary control is the Minister of Economy. This is a question from the National Representative Ivan Ibrishimov about the redundant miners in the municipality of Bobov Dol. Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u206	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is formed on the basis of a major problem for the municipality of Bobov dol, namely the increasing unemployment due to the closure of the mines in the municipality of Bobov dol. You know that this belongs to a municipality where the population exclusively, almost 80% of the people living in Bobov dol rely on the workplace or their workplace is related to coal mining. Just as facts say that three years ago was closed a large mine mine. "Ivan Rusev, this year a mine.. Babino, mine.................................................................................................... is closed....................................................................................................................................... As a result of the closure of these mines, nearly 1600 people were left unemployed by a population in the municipality of 8500. Of these 1,600 nearly half are either labor-built or retired parts of them are on the employment desk of various programs, but this is not sustainable. The rest are jobless or generally the prospects of the area are not good. Obviously, it is a forthcoming demographic collapse and for me the municipality of Bobov Dol cannot deal with this problem on its own. I think that here is the role of the state and, in particular, of the Ministry of Economy to help such a municipality and not only the municipality of Bobov dol, in general, of municipalities that are affected by the closure of mines and coal mining at all. And that is why my question to you is: what is the attitude of the Ministry of Economy and what actions do you take and intend to take forward to promote investments by large Bulgarian or foreign companies in Bobov Dol and other affected municipalities in order to create jobs for the other unemployed miners? And further, I would like to add: I think that measures are also needed, some programs for...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u207	In the line, Mr. Ibrishimov. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ibrishimov, thank you for the question. As you said, there is indeed a great imbalance between the regions and the subject is not only for Bobov dol but also for many other municipalities. To answer your question, I also took the liberty of taking information that would be interesting to you, Members of the National Assembly. It, both from the Ministry of Energy, unfortunately, is not positive or from the Employment Agency. I'll try to sum it up and tell you what we're doing in this direction. The question you are asking is essential. For this reason, the Ministry of Economy has asked for up-to-date information, as I have already said, to the Ministry of Energy, because, you know, they are a concession in this sector -- especially in this sector -- and to the Employment Agency. According to the information of the Directorate of the Regional Employment and Employment Office, from 2013 to July 2017 639 miners were released from Mini Bobov dol. Most affected are municipalities as follows: Bobov Dol " 247 people, Dupnitsa " 209 people, Kyustendil " 148 people, and Nevelino " 19 people. Thanks to the services provided by the Employment Agency, including under the Human Resources Development Operational Programme scheme, 153 people were built in employment, compared to these 639, by the free miners. We asked the Ministry of Energy, in whose competence are concession contracts, whether they have information about the interest of Bulgarian or foreign investors. The answer is that at the moment there is no such stated investor interest. At the Ministry of Economy, unfortunately, we have not yet received an application for interest from investors, whether Bulgarian or foreign in this sector. The main instrument of the Ministry of Economy to support projects in the industry are: Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" and as you know, the Investment Promotion Agency and the measures given under the Investment Promotion Act. Companies meeting the requirements of the Law may apply for the issue of a class certificate for an investor class and benefit from the incentive measures provided for therein, especially in regions with high unemployment. Whenever investors come to the Ministry of Economy, we tell them what privileges they will have if they invest in such regions. In the district of Kyustendil, which also belongs to the municipality of Bobov dol, there are nine municipalities. All of them, with the exception of Bobov Dol, are unemployment higher than the national average, and they are subject to additional preferences for investors. Since the beginning of 2016, there has been a significant increase in investment activity across the country, which is also confirmed by the number of certified projects. Most of them are in the manufacturing sector as for 2016. 24 of the total investment in the projects amounted to 195 million. lv. More than 2015. For the first half of this year only 16 certificates for class A and three certificates for class B and one for priority investor were drawn up. Total planned investments amount to 183 million and 4422 jobs are expected to be created. Perhaps the good trend is that investors are already targeting, given the privileges given to them under the Investment Promotion Act, to regions with high unemployment. According to preliminary data of the National Statistical Institute in the second quarter of 2017, the average salary for the district of Kyustendil compared to the same period of 2016 increased by 7.8% and amounted to 722 BGN. In the structure of employees in economic activities in the district is the largest share of employees in the activity. The unemployment rate in the district at the end of July 2017 was above the national average, namely 9.1%. Compared to the previous month, namely the month of June, it decreased by 0.1%, entering the work for July 727 people. This is according to the employment agency. Data show that during this year, the district of Kyustendil has seen an increase in economic activity in the area of unemployment reduction and wage increases. Once again, we are doing everything possible for all investors who come to the Ministry of Economy to convince them that they need to invest in regions where there is a great unemployment, because the main topic they are asking is: Unfortunately, at the moment in the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Energy specifically from this mining sector no applications have been received and there are no such investors at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u209	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mr. Ibrishimov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! My question was precisely for this purpose to sharpen your attention precisely in this direction that the state and the Ministry of Economy should provide privileges and preferences to businessmen, whether foreign or Bulgarian, who want to invest in Bulgaria, to direct the attention of this business to such areas. In addition, your ministry, and in my opinion, the Social Ministry, must also organise programmes to requalify these redundant miners. These programs naturally have to be free. I think the state can afford it. Even already existing local business in the region I am from this region, and I know well the needs of this business, there is a shortage of personnel. Currently there are open jobs and the business is waiting for prepared staff to be appointed to work. I believe that it is your efforts of the state, of the Ministry of Economy, of the Social Ministry that should be in this direction. Because what you have also quoted, that the Bureau of Labour is engaged N- number of people, that, as you know, and we all know, is not sustainable. This is a temporary solution to the problem and after the time limits in which these programmes are covered, the problem remains unresolved. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u211	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibrishimov. Would you like a hole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u212	Thank you. In a nutshell. This is a priority of both the government and all of us here should not be divided. The problem with the workforce is currently the biggest problem for both the state and investors. I assure you, we're working. Including with the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences we are currently discussing whether they can be assigned to do an analysis, of course, with the help of the business for the next five, ten to fifteen years what workforce and which sector the business will need. The aim is to provide this analysis to higher education institutions, schools, so that they can prepare staff, not as a professor at a university, said: "We are currently preparing the unemployed. We know about this problem at the Employment Agency, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, dual training is being introduced. Unfortunately, this will have an effect after a certain period of time. At present, we are working as a priority aimed at Bulgarian minorities abroad, including those of our fellow citizens who have left our homeland for the last twenty-something years, to bring them back here. We are making possible preferential visas, procedures so that we can secure the workforce, but this problem is for the whole European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-09-08.u213	Thank you, dear Minister! This was the last question to the Minister of Economy Mr. Emil Karanikolov. This was also the last question of today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be on 13 September 2017, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
