ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members, allow me to present to you the National Assembly Work Programme for the period 21 June 2017. "1." First vote on the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. 2. Draft Decision on the establishment of the Commission for the Auditing of the Court of Auditors' Annual Financial Statements 2015 - 2016. The importer is the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova on 13 June 2017. 3. Projects of decisions to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to identify potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. Mr. Georgi Kolev was the Chairman of the Temporary Commission on 20 June 2017. Yesterday at 18.00 he received a draft decision from the MPs Cornelia Ninova and Zhelyo Boychev. 4. Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2016. Imported by the Commission for Protection of Competition on 30 May 2017. 5. First vote on the bill amending and supplementing the tax and insurance procedural code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 June 2017. We propose this to be the first item for Thursday, 22 June 2017. 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code. The people's representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. We propose that this be point two for Thursday, 22 June 2017. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending the Road Traffic Act. The People's Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov and a group of MPs on 2 June 2017. It was adopted on the first vote on 14 June 2017. It is proposed to be item 3 for Thursday, 22 June 2017. 8. Parliamentary Controls "Friday 23 June 2017 at 9.00 p.m. Please vote. Vote 188 MPs: 130, against 45, abstention 13. The agenda has been adopted. [[National Representative Dragomir Stoinev wants the floor.]] Here you go, Mr. Stoinev. Suggestion or procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u2	Negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u3	Negative vote on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u4	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today at the Conference of Presidents, to be correct, I will tell the truth, I strongly objected to this agenda. The main reason is that opposition bills are not seen. It is not normal, ladies and gentlemen, when there are legislations tabled, such as the Law amending and supplementing the civil procedure code submitted on 10 May 2017. It has not yet been seen in the Legal Commission; the Law amending the penal code submitted on 25 May 2017. The draft law on the amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure submitted on 1 June 2017 has not been adopted by the Legal Commission. He hasn't been seen in the Legal Commission yet. In the Committee on Agriculture, a bill which was submitted on 18 May 2017 concerning the Food Act has not yet been reviewed. We believe that this is a trendy attitude towards the opposition. I understand your desire to have a confrontation, to have clashes on such issues, but in the end we must respect Bulgarian citizens. Bulgarian citizens stood behind these legislative initiatives of BSP for Bulgaria. These are nearly one million Bulgarian citizens. It is up to you whether you will vote for or against these bills, but they must be debated in plenary. We strongly object in this way to the work of the Bulgarian Parliament, which sees only and only bills tabled by the Council of Ministers or by the ruling majority. I give an example: The Committee on Agriculture and Food will see a Bill amending the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency Act submitted on 19 June 2017. On 19 June 2017 the bill will be submitted and today will be seen as a bill that will help Bulgarian farmers to protect Bulgarian production, Bulgarian citizens to consume high quality foods, with this negative trend of double standard between European food consumed in Western Europe and the difference in Eastern Europe. This is how we want to show the alternative, you arrogantly reject these bills. You don't even bother to look at them on committees. We strongly object to this way of working in the Bulgarian Parliament. Until we change this negative trend, which, again I say, is not so targeted, it does not offend us, it is your style, but it is aimed at Bulgarian parliamentaryism... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u5	Time, Mr. Stoinev!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u6	One sentence, Mr. Chairman! ...we have no place in this chairmanship council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) People's representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.)]] You are welcome to follow the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like this procedure in the manner in which it is conducted for the reason that you gave a negative vote on voting, which is under the weekly programme. The weekly programme is not a simple vote on which the rules on negative votes apply. If colleagues wanted to say what they said, they could take the floor on behalf of a group and make a declaration in this regard. As the Committee on Legal Affairs has been vitiated three times in this negative vote, I give the following explanation, Mr President. The PPC bill submitted by BSP colleagues is not the only one.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u9	What is this procedure? What is this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u10	What is this procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u11	You're asking this question, what is this procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u12	Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u13	It's a reverse opinion.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u14	Please, Mr. Kirilov! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u15	There are three PPC bills, one of which is ours, and they are not watched. If you ask, colleagues from the Legal Commission will explain what is the decision and view of the Legal Commission on the GPC.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. [[Replications between MPs Dragomir Stoinev and Danail Kirilov.]] Thank you for giving me a chance to say something, too, because in the negative vote, I had nothing to say. This morning at the Conference of Presidents correctly, Mr. Stoinev raised the question, to which I explained that since the problem is in the way of the work of the committees, there are representatives in this Commission who should raise the problem in the appropriate place. It is interesting why no one makes a proposal to include the agenda. Isn't that the question I asked you? You, if you do not agree with this agenda, why not make a proposal to include your bills on the agenda?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u17	Let them go through the committees first.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u18	And the answer is simple, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u19	They didn't go through the committees.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u20	I will send letters today to all committee chairmen urging them to look at projects in a timely manner, as there is no way to include drafts on the agenda [[single BSP applause for Bulgaria]] who are not considered in committee. I'm sorry to explain this to you, but we have to say right now that the terms of the Rules have not yet expired. There's a two-month period that, when it's not over, I think you know what you're doing. Let us observe the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, as difficult as it may be for you to see. Communication of questions: Due to the absence of the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova, in connection with a visit within the framework of an official Bulgarian delegation in the Hellenic Republic, it is imperative to set a new deadline for discussions on questions scheduled for the forthcoming parliamentary control meeting on 23 June 2017. 105, para. The 2nd sentence of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly is the debate on asking to be held in the presence of the respective Minister. The debate on asking, No 754-05-10, dated 17 May 2017, asked the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov concerning the current policy of the Ministry of Energy for guaranteeing Bulgaria's energy security. In the light of the above, I am calling for the debate on that question for the next parliamentary control meeting. Bills and draft decisions entered into force from 13 June 2017 to 20 June 2017: On 13 June 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers, allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. On 13 June 2017, a Report on the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to the data under the Law on Electronic Communications was received. An importer is the People's Representative Dimitar Lazarov, President of the Commission. On 13 June 2017, a draft decision for the designation of the Commission for the Auditing of the Annual Financial Statements of the Court of Auditors for 2015 and 2016. The importer is the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 14 June 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Election Code with importers was adopted by the People's Representative Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, as well as to the Committee on Budget and Finance. On 14 June 2017, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. On 14 June 2017, a Bill for Supplement to the Military Monuments Act was adopted. Importer is the People's Representative Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs. It has been allocated to the leading Defence Committee. On 15 June 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act was adopted. Importer is the national representative Boris Yachev and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, as well as to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. An Administrative Monitoring Report for 2016 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration was received on 15 June. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, the Committee on Education and Science, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Culture and Media, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. On 16 June 2017, a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Political Parties was adopted. The importer is the national representative Gergana Stefanova and a group of MPs. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Legal Affairs. On 16 June 2017, a draft decision was received in connection with the debates on inquiry, No 754-05-10, dated 17 May 2017 by the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Ivan Genov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on an up-to-date policy of the Ministry of Energy for guaranteeing the electricity security of Bulgaria. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. On 19 June 2017, a Draft Law amending the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency was adopted. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It is allocated to the leading Committee on Agriculture and Food. On 20 June 2017, a draft decision was received to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to identify potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. Importer is the national representative Georgi Kolev. On 20 June 2017, a draft decision on the extension of the duration of the temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens was received. The representatives of the National Assembly are Cornelia Ninova and Zhelyo Boychev. On 20 June 2017, two requests were received to the National Assembly from the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria Mr. Sotir Tsatsarov. One of them's in. No 727-07 for permission to initiate prosecution against the People's Representative Manol Genov in pre-trial proceedings No 57 of 2017 according to the description of the District Prosecutor's Office........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 277a, para. 4 in connection with art. 20, para. 3 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code and under art. 167, para. Article 3 in conjunction with Article 3 26, para. 2 in connection with para. 1 of the Penal Code. And another one, with an inch. No 727-00-8, for permission to continue the prosecution of the People's Representative Dimitar Gamishev, No 2270 from 2017, according to the description of the Sofia City Court, the 26th Chamber, formed by the Prosecution of the District Office of Blagoevgrad, on 22 June 2016 indictment in pre-trial proceedings, No 621 from 2014, according to the description of the Ministry of Interior District of Gotse Delchev, file No 2229 from 2015 of the District Prosecutor's Office of Blagoevgrad, for a crime committed under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1b (in the case of Art. 1b) 342, para. 1, Proposal 3 of the Penal Code. By letters dated 20 June 2017, the President of the National Assembly informed the Members of the National Assembly of the requests received and the opportunity to get acquainted with them and the attached materials. By application of 20 June 2017, the MPs Manol Genov and Dimitar Gamishev informed the President of the National Assembly that they agreed to arouse prosecution on the requests of the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. By letter the President of the National Assembly has notified the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria of the written consents given by the MPs, with certified copies of the applications being applied. The request of the Prosecutor General has been sent to the Members of the National Assembly by official and e-mail. We also have a letter from the Chairman of the Energy Commission Delyan Dobrev: At his regular meeting the Energy Commission in implementation of art. 25, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly elected, within the framework of its composition, a permanent subcommittee for monitoring the activities of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. The subcommittee consists of five members as follows: President Valentin Nikolov and members Alexander Siddi, Plamen Hristov, Ramadan Atalay and Tasco Ermenkov. Annual report on the state of financial management, control and internal audit systems of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria has also been submitted to the National Assembly. The report was submitted on 20 June 2017 by letter dated 20 June 2017. No 724-00-7 by the President of the Court of Auditors. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. On behalf of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" with a declaration will introduce you to the Chairman of the group, the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova. You have the floor for a declaration, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u21	Dear colleagues and Mr. Chairman! In the announcements you have made, there is a good news of the second month after the convening of the parliament there are legislations submitted by the Council of Ministers and the ruling majority. Obviously, something will be done before you relax on vacation, tired of hard work. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u22	Order, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u23	However, because of the double standards that you are manifesting, including today, Mr. President, when you sent the BSP to the procedure to submit its own proposals to the Chamber, knowing that we cannot do so, as the deadlines fixed in the Rules of Procedure have not expired two months after submission we can do so in the Chamber. Of course, this procedure does not apply to the government, there are not two months of law there, the next day they are seen. The double standards are clear. We do not rely on a word anymore because we have repeatedly raised the question, we have been given one and it has not been implemented, which is why I declare on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and two things. First, we leave the Conference of Presidents. There, decide what legislative programme to submit to the Chamber. Secondly, since we no longer rely on your word, today we proceed to another procedure. In the committees in which we have submitted bills, today we are submitting signatures of one third of the MEPs members of the Commission, and we want a mandatory extraordinary convening of committees, with an emergency agenda: consideration of the laws of the BSP for Bulgaria. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u24	Moving on to the first item on the agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR THE BUDGET OF THE STATE PUBLIC SECURITY FOR 2017 There is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. We will be introduced by the People's Representative, Chairman of the Budget and Finance Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017, No 702-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 09 June 2017. At a meeting held on 15 June 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Kalina Petkova, Director of the Department of Labour and Social Policy, Director of the Department of Public Works and Social Affairs, Mrs. Vesela Karaivanova, Director of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ms. Penka Taneva, Director of the Directorate of the NEI, Mr. Iliana Vladova, State Expert at the Department of Finance and member of the Supervisory Board of the NEI, representatives of the employers' and trade unions, etc. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Zornitsa Rusinova, who pointed out that the increase in pensions is laid down in the government's management programme and aims to improve the adequacy of employment pensions. The bill provides for the minimum pension to be increased from 161,38 BGN from 1 July 2017. at 180 BGN, or by 11.5 per cent, and 200 BGN from 1 October 2017, or by 11.1 per cent. All pensions, which, after the recalculation of July 1 with a weight of 1,126 per year, remain below BGN 180 or below the minimum amount of the pension for the species concerned, will be equalized to the new minimum amount. As a result of the increase, the number of pensions to a minimum will increase from 547 thousand. About 668 thousand. people retired or about 31.5 per cent of pensioners for employment will have minimum pensions. After the increase of the minimum pension for internship and age of 180 BGN. 200 leva. from 1 October 2017, the number of pensions to a minimum will increase from 668 thousand. About 800 thousand. or about 37.8 percent of pensioners for employment will have minimum pensions. The missionaries whose pensions are below BGN 200. or below the minimum pension value for the species concerned, they will receive the new minimum amounts, with an increase of about 132 thousand people to 11.1 per cent and an increase of 11.1 per cent for 668 thousand. As a result of the increase of the same rates, the minimum size of the other pensions for employment will be increased, which will be determined in a percentage of the minimum pension for retirement and age. These are disability pensions due to general illness, disability pensions due to accidents and occupational sickness and inherited pensions. For the two-stage increase of the minimum pension for internship and age, about 100 million will be required. lv. additionally above the resources envisaged in the state social security budget for this year. The additional costs will be at the expense of expected higher revenues than planned in the 2017 public insurance budget, with which the budgetary balance for the year will not be changed. After the presentation and discussion of the bill was held with the following results:................................. 21 MPs..................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above and the results of the vote, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017, No 702 01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u26	A report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. It will be introduced to you by the President of the Commission, the national representative Dr. Hassan Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act, No 702-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 14 June 2017 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending the State Social Security Budget Act, No 702-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Ms. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Ms. Kalina Petkova, Director of Directorate at the Ministry and Ms. Petya Malakova, Head of Department at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, Ms. Vesela Karaivanova, Deputy Governor of the National Insurance Institute, Mrs. Penka Taneva, Director of the Directorate at the NSI, Mrs. Iliana Vladova, Head of Department at the Department of State Expenditure. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Rusinova. According to the reasons of the Bill, in order to improve the adequacy of employment pensions, it is necessary to set a higher minimum amount of retirement and age pension. This can be achieved by accepting the change proposed by the Bill in art. 10 of the Law on the Budget of the State Social Security for 2017, which provides for the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age to be 180 BGN. from 1 July 2017 and 200 BGN from 1 October 2017. The increase of the minimum pension for internship and age of 161,38 BGN BGN 180,00. is an increase of 11.5 percent and an increase of 180,00 BGN. BGN 200,00. From 1 October 2017, it represents an increase of 11.1 per cent. As a result of the proposed change, the minimum amounts of other pensions for employment will be increased by the same percentage of the retirement pension: disability pensions due to general illness, disability pensions due to occupational accident and occupational sickness and inherited pensions. All pensions, which will remain below 180 BGN after the recalculation of the pensions of July 1 with a weight of 1,126 for each year. or below the minimum amount of the pension for the species concerned, they will be equalised to the new minimum amount. As a result of the increase of the minimum pension for internship and age of 180,00 BGN. the number of pensions to a minimum will increase from BGN 547 300. about BGN 668 000, or about 31.5 per cent of pensioners for work will have minimum pensions. The necessary additional funds for the payment of the new minimum amounts amount to 8,8 million. lv. monthly. According to the importers of the bill pensions of less than 200 leva. or below the minimum amount of pension for the species concerned, they will be equalised to the new minimum amount, where about 132 thousand pensioners will receive an increase and 668 thousand pensioners will receive an increase of 11.1 per cent. The necessary additional funds to increase the minimum pension for internship and age of 180 BGN. 200 leva. is at the rate of 14.7 million per month and in 2018, the necessary funds are around 280 million. Ms. Iliana Vladova said that this project is supported by the Ministry of Finance and informed the MPs that the total amount of funds for a two-stage increase in the minimum pension for internship and age will be around 100 million. lv. The additional costs of state social security will be at the expense of the expected higher than planned for 2017 revenues under the DVO budget. Mrs. Karaivanova, governor of the NSI, said that the NSI are ready to begin immediately the recalculation of pensions of their new size and expect the quick adoption of the bill so that the increase from 1 July can be a fact. Protocol No 9 of 6 June 2017 from the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation was received in the Commission. It shows that employers and trade unions have taken opposing positions on the Bill. The CST has expressed their principled position that the increase in pensions must go in the only correct way through the formula in which all pensioners contribute, our attitude towards the insurance system is in their behaviour. However, the increase in minimum pensions is a good thing for people and brings the social security system to a serious problem. A large part of the pensioners will have a pension of 200 BGN and a little over that amount there are people who received such pensions according to the formula. For all others from 1 July will be increased by 2.4% and in this case there is a 24% increase for people with over 160 BGN. Right now. This will not stimulate workers to provide for their real income. The CST hopes that by supporting the decision to amend the DVO budget, although with a particular opinion, this will stimulate the government's commitment to the adequacy of pensions and its positive attitude towards trade unions' proposals. KT "Support" takes the proposal as a good thing and secure for some of the pensioners, but stresses that this does not solve the pension problems, that it displaces the ratios and this step should not be left alone and alone. The Bulgarian Industrial Association does not support the proposed project and AICB "The Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria" refers with understanding to the noble motives for the proposed amendment of the budget of the Ministry of Economy, but refrains from support. The Union for Business Initiative shall support this project as a credit of confidence in the ruling majority. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry reserves the proposal for amendment of the Law on the Budget of the Ministry of Economy. The organisation has reservations as to the resource provision of this proposal and the extent to which the increase in the minimum pension must be linked to public insurance or social support. The discussion was attended by the MPs Irena Dimova, Milko Nedyalkov, Georgi Gokov, Kalin Popovski, Nadia Klisurska, Albena Naydenova, Svetlana Angelova, Nikolai Ivanov, Pavel Shopov and Hasan Ademov. MPs from all parliamentary groups said they would support the bill as they find it necessary to increase the size of the lowest pensions. It is good that around 800,000 pensioners will have an increase in pensions, and that financial resources are provided for this. There were also disagreements regarding the fact that the importers of the bill violate two of the basic principles that are in force in our solidarity and equality system. The bill will bring the minimum pensions closer to the average and tensions between large groups of pensioners, who will receive almost equal pensions for a different individual contribution. This change made another distortion of the pension insurance model set out in 2000. Disappointments were expressed because the government had given up their promises and made the increase of pensions with small steps for the four years of the mandate. Concerns were raised that the increase in minimum pensions is relied on over-execution of the budget, but no one can guarantee what this over-execution will be at the end of the year. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 19 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support the bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act by importing the Council of Ministers in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u28	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Minister Petkov, please come in for an opinion of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u29	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The main objective of the minimum pension for internship and age is to provide a minimum standard of living after the retirement of low-income employees and those with career interruptions and thus reduce the poverty in the elderly among these population groups. I would like to remind you that in the Bulgarian pension system the minimum pension for retirement and age has been linked to the social pension for old age. It was only in 2006 that this relationship was terminated without setting a rule for determining the minimum pension for insurance service and age, which is defined each year by the Law on the Budget of the Ministry of Health, but since 2007 it has been necessary to index the minimum pension for insurance service and age according to the rule on updating all pensions. This is followed by the Law on the Budget of State Social Security for this year, where the minimum pension for insurance service and age from 1 January to 30 June is set to be 161,38 BGN and from 1 July to increase to 165,25 BGN, i.e. by 2.4%. This is the percentage by which all pensions will be indexed from 1 July this year. With discussions, a bill is proposed to advance the amount of minimum pension for internship and age and the minimum amount of other pensions that are related to this minimum amount. I would remind you that these are disability pensions due to general illness, these are disability pensions due to occupational accident and occupational sickness, these are inherited pensions. It has already been mentioned that an increase in the minimum pension for internship and age will result in an increase of 802 thousand pensions, and I would like to add here that, in fact, an increase in the minimum pension for internship and age will result in an increase in the amount of the so-called widow's supplement. You know that 26.5% is the amount of the so-called widowly supplement. I would like to stress that, due to the early increase in the minimum wage in recent years, the relative share of minimum pensions for insurance and age to the minimum wage in the years has decreased. If in 2009, the minimum retirement pension represented 54.9% of the minimum wage, this percentage was 38% in 2016. This is, in fact, the substitution rate, which has significantly decreased due to the advance increase in the minimum wage, with the proposed increase in the minimum pension being expected to increase this substitution coefficient to 40%. This is a norm that shows the adequacy of the minimum pension compared to the minimum income for work that pensioners should receive before they retire. Of course, it must be taken into account that earning the higher amount of the minimum pension for internship and age requires an increase in the level of minimum insurance income. I would like to stress here that the macro framework for the period 2018 - 2020 of the government provides for an increase in the minimum wage, which will provide the necessary level of minimum insurance income for obtaining the minimum retirement and age pension. I cannot say that, in fact, providing the minimum wage so far for the minimum social income does not guarantee the minimum amount of the current and future pensions, so this strengthens the redistribution processes in the state social security system, which still exist. That is to say, this bill gives priority to the principle of solidarity, which is one of the guiding principles in the cost-covering insurance system. I would like to stress once again that the proposed bill will lead to an increase in a large number of pensions received by a large number of Bulgarian pensioners. Once again, I would like to stress that the amount of 802 thousand pensions will be increased from 2.4% to 24%, depending on their current size, with these two proposed steps and the increase in the amount of the widowly supplements received by 136 thousand pensioners, as the minimum amount of the widowly supplement............................................................................. It's going to grow to £53. With these exact motives, I appeal to you to support the Bill in view of and the possibility of paying these higher amounts together with the July pensions, whose payment will begin on 7 July this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u30	Thank you, dear Minister. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u31	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I hope you remember very well the debate on the proposed legislation supplementing the Social Security Code for recalculating all pensions and the reasons with which you rejected it. Now I can present the same motives as I stand against this Bill, because they largely apply to it than previously to our Bill. BSP and its parliamentary groups back in time, however, have always been about raising the incomes of older people. Since their basic income is pension income, our beliefs are that our efforts must be directed towards their increase. In our positions and policies, we have never opposed policies and proposals for implementing measures to increase the size of pensions and also to enhance the attractiveness of the insurance system and increase confidence in it. We have always expressed our willingness to discuss the various options for raising the incomes of elderly people, including those proposed by political forces, as long as this was not populist, imitation and does not violate basic principles in the field of social security. The missionaries are entitled to a more dignified life, but I think that there is no adequate treatment of that for them by your side as governors for seven years now in the last eight. That's what nearly two million and three hundred thousand pensioners and about three or four million future pensioners think. That's why it's so low trust in the pension system. With this legislation submitted by the Council of Ministers is envisaged art. 10 of the State Social Security Budget Act to change, which is foreseen, as the minister said, to increase the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age and to become 180 BGN. from 1 July and 200 leva. from 1 October 2017. This increase in the minimum amount of the retirement pension shall be motivated by a desire to improve the adequacy of employment pensions. With the adequacy of pensions, I'm putting it aside. However, I will point out a question: what is the adequacy of pensions in general when two million pensioners remain outside the scope of this proposed increase?! Do the importers even know what the word "adequacy" means? First of all, this proposal violates art. 3 of the Social Security Code, i.e. the basic principles of state social security are violated, two of the five recorded in art. 3: To a lesser extent, the principle of solidarity and, to a greater extent, the principle of equal treatment of insured persons. I believe that the adoption of this proposal will put a group of pensioners in an extremely unequal position, and these are pensioners with pensions granted for internship and age in the previous years, for example before 2000, when they were provided at relatively high levels compared to the then average social security income, but for one reason or another, above all inadequate political decisions, their pensions have fallen behind at levels close to BGN 200-250. Given that these persons have usually retired before 2000, before the pension reform and have a real, relatively high contribution to the formation and increase of the country's insurance income, albeit at the time of their retirement, and according to the proposal, the pension of these persons will not be increased or increased by 2,5% or around this figure under Art. 100 of the Social Security Code, while persons with lower pensions close to the minimum, without a real or not so much contribution to the formation and increase of the social income at the time of their retirement, will receive a gift of an increase of 11.5 per cent from 1 July and 11.1 per cent from 1 October this year, respectively. And the question is: where is equality and justice, which are basic principles in social security relations?! The Bulgarian BSP respects and supports compliance with the principle of equality laid down as the main one in the Social Security Code and believes that there should in no way be a levelling of pensions for people with different contributions! I'm moving on. Sustainability, predictability and continuity of insurance legislation is needed, especially on issues concerning large groups of insured people, despite the different views of political parties, especially on the policy relating to the size of pensions. It is our belief that all legislative initiatives for changes to this legislation should be considered at once in order not to bring about repeated amendments to the insurance legislation. In this case, we mean that, in parallel and inseparably, decisions to increase the minimum pension and recalculate pensions should be considered, if you will, in the context of the government's announced intention to recalculate it. The proposed Bill does not solve even a small part of the problems despite the intended and not small financial resources, because it covers a limited part of the users of social security rights and contains solutions in its entirety. This raises serious doubts about the effect of the proposed measures. This established as a style of management practice of isolated consideration of problems in the system and conjunctural political and even expert solutions to individual problems led to the current negative financial situation of state social security. Let importers, and all those who support the Bill in this form, bear in mind that the growth of the average social security income for 2016 is more than 200% compared to the 2007 social security income when the first and only recalculation of pensions was made. There are thousands of examples of this, including those we conduct as MPs, whether by the government or by the opposition. The overcoming of this difference, which we insist on, can be achieved in two ways: by recalculating pensions or with a mechanical increase in pensions by the percentage by which the minimum pension is increased, in this case a total of 22.6%. The first way will wipe out an injustice between the old and new pensioners having the same social contribution. I say this because all parliamentary parties represented, including the now ruling by GERB and the United patriots, in the course of the election campaign expressed their strong support for the increase of pensions, including some of them - too populist - 300 BGN minimum pension! We must make this increase in all pensions because people are watching and will not forgive you, especially the smaller partner in the coalition, who promised not only 300 leva. minimum pension, but also recalculation of all others. That's how he managed to trick a lot of people in retirement to vote for them. Here is the place to express our principled positions, too, on the condition that the majority is preparing to manage a full mandate, and although there is no management programme to date, it is at least appropriate to develop a medium and long-term package of measures to ensure a sustainable and unsymbolised increase in all pensions, I stress again: all pensions. Let the people and society know what awaits them in this government. BSP and our parliamentary group are ready to participate at political and expert level with proposals and opinions to increase the effectiveness of the pension system and, above all, to increase the amount of pensions, but an increase based on a principled basis and reflecting the contribution of each person involved in social security. Because the Bulgarian pensioner is in an unenviable position. Didn't Prime Minister Borisov even admit that it is paid in times more for refugees than for pensioners?! Even in one statement he calculated that an average of around 500 euros per month are given for the maintenance of a refugee, while the pension of a Bulgarian pensioner is about 150 euros per month. But he probably believes the average pension in Bulgaria or the promised but not given by the smaller coalition partner 300 leva, which is 150 euros, because 800 thousand people, even among the generous increase in pensions, will take 90 euros, and soon after that, under the grace of GERB will start to take 100 euros! Congratulations! The statistics, however, will continue to show that over one million and three hundred thousand pensioners will remain with pensions below the poverty line BGN 314. or a little more than 150 euros. According to the government's mid-term forecast when adopting the 2017 budget, which has not changed until now and has not even described intentions in this direction, the next three years all other pensions will grow under the Swiss rule, i.e. by about 2.5% per year. No substantial change in their size is envisaged. Against this background, it is not to be praised that from 1 October 2017, the number of pensions of a minimum size will increase to about 800 thousand or about 37,8% of pensioners will have minimum pensions. That is, more than one third of all pensioners will receive the minimum pension. Is it pride to be the prime minister of such a country? On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, I declare: despite the serious criticism that this proposal is not respected and does not respect the principle of equality; that there should be no levelling of pensions for people with different social contributions; that the proposal does not solve the problems of pensions, but the ratio between pensions of people with different social contributions; that with this step we affect few people and so far it is an independent and only step must be made next, concerning a serious increase of all other pensions; that it is a retreat from the electoral promises of the ruling for 300 BGN. minimum pension, the decision of our parliamentary group is to support the bill. And in spite of our particular opinion, to vote on the issue, because elderly people are entitled to a more decent life, and it is obvious that the minimum pension for retirement and age is unduly low. We are going to vote in favour because we accept the social motivation and argumentation for their increase, although we do not accept that they are only increasing; because we accept that any increase in the income of the elderly, pensioners is a good thing, albeit only for some of them, about 250, 260 thousand. The guy. In addition to the support expressed, I explicitly stress that between the first and second votes of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria, we will make proposals in order to improve the adequacy of employment pensions, such as your motivation for raising minimum pensions. I can now announce to you what our proposal will be, so that you can prepare your motives for his rejection. We'll offer 300 leva. minimum pension from 1 July [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria (BGSP for Bulgaria))]] and recalculation of all pensions with average social security income from 2013, as was our proposal, and why not from 2009, whatever management intention you recorded somewhere in the coalition agreement. We'll tell you where the money will come from for this increase. So on your behalf we will fulfill your election promises to the millions of pensioners in Bulgaria. [[Happy tidings in GERB and OP.]] I don't know what's funny about what I said, but prepare for serious arguments in rejecting our proposal, because this time it won't go so easily and demagogically on your part. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, behind your incorrect statement mixed with political lines and with many populism, sees a truth, and it is very, very painful that you could not win the parliamentary elections; that you could not keep your social promises to your voters. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria.]] These social promises are now being fulfilled by us, the leaders of the United Patriarchs and the Political Party GERB, which has won the parliamentary vote for the fourth time in a row, unlike you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As a representative of the socially responsible party, I would like to ask you the question: what violation of the principle of equality and solidarity are you talking about in your speech, which you read from the parliamentary platform? Does solidarity not include support and care for the weakest, the most vulnerable and the poorest? Is that against you? Does that mean you won't support 800,000? Bulgarian pensioners with the lowest income? If that's the case, then you're contradicting each other.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u34	Mrs. Angelova, shame on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u35	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Here's a line for you, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, this is a topic that I have been dealing with in my early political life. I am very pleasantly surprised by you and your halfhearted speech from here. I'll be very happy on the list that your PR team has drawn up... If you could come out and tell us how you supported our decisions in the Forty-second National Assembly. In 2013 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. I remember you, I remember Cornelia Ninova was the chairman of the Committee on Labour and Social Policy, but I can't remember how you voted. It is very easy to say: "We can make them as proposals, but you cannot tell where the money will come from.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u37	We can, we can!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u38	Make a proposal to change the budget, make a proposal to change art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 of the DEA and there we can now say: here we have made an offer, where we know where the money will come from. When the moments come when your support is indeed expected... When we expected your support, we didn't receive it. It is very easy to use this theme to make with the foreign message. But when you were in the situation where you had to make the right decision and didn't make it, now it's very easy to come out here and criticize. I understand that it is very easy for you when you are in opposition, to speak it and you have spoken it, but when you are ruling and when you are taking real steps in this direction, and it is right, as you said, it is quite different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Popovski, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A serious question we see what debate is going on here. All I can say is that no government in democratic times since 1990, at the beginning of its term, away from election passions, has increased pensions by 11% twice in a calendar year, what our government is currently proposing. We know that the minimum pensions in Albania and Macedonia, which are candidate members of the European Union, are smaller than those in Bulgaria. So it was extremely important and urgent that this thing be done at the beginning of this management mandate. Further, the resources for the increase of other pensions, other than the minimum, which are below the poverty threshold, are below BGN 300. There must be a serious revision of the telk solutions, which we have also commented in the Commission, where about 1 billion. Seven hundred million. is the resource that spends the budget on disability pensions. As we said, at least two thirds of them are simulated, engraved, so there is a serious resource that can be redirected to other old age and internship pensions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Popovski. That was the third line to you. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u42	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, an incorrect statement from your previous bill, I regret to mention it, which is directly related to this, I have not heard, I doubt I will hear any further in Parliament. It hurt so much that we didn't win the election. Yeah, it's unpleasant that we didn't win the election, because if we had won them, we would now have done everything we talked about and what we had made as commitments during the election campaign. Now people can regret voting for you because it's one thing to talk about making 300 leva. pensions, that you will reclaim all pensions is different when you come to parliament, to make pensions 200 BGN, and from 1 October. Is there a tie between BGN 200 and BGN 300?? [[GERB lines.]] I'm looking very well. What level of equality can we talk about, Mrs. Angelova? You're increasing the pension to 250, 260, and everyone else is watching. Do you know how many pensioners there are in Bulgaria? Two million. The Commission therefore concludes Three hundred thousand. What are the other 2 million doing? They're watching you break the principle of equality! You don't do anything else! And you can't blame us for doing it! Saying it's the wrong thing to say! It's completely incorrect, and it's more expert than political. If I spoke politically, I would talk a lot about election promises, about 300 BGN, how people lie during elections... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I understand your outrage, but when you promise a man, he has to think a little bit about doing it. Not to wish for such things, because the United Patriarchs hardly believed that they would enter into power and keep their promises. Mr. Alexandrov, my statement may be half honest or sincere, I don't know. I don't know if it hurts if we won the election or not, but it hurts you that you can't keep your election promises. You say how we voted on your proposal a moment ago I said that we are about raising the incomes of elderly people, including those proposed by other political forces, as long as this is not populist, imitation and does not violate basic principles in the field of social security. You suggested, if you remember, £1,000. minimum pension. Do you remember that? You remember. Where's the money coming from? The money will come from the increased collection, because you constantly underestimate both the budget of state and public security and the state budget. It's an understatement! The Prime Minister is constantly saying that there is a billion and a half billion. And it is not the job of the MP to make proposals to change the budget. We will change the legislation, and from the surplus the government will propose how the money will come for this increase. [[The President signals that time is over.]] I'm sorry my time is up. I was going to answer Mr. Popovski's question. No one has increased pensions by 11%. On the contrary, Mr. Popovski, during the three coalitions...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u43	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u44	...pensions were increased by 108%. Thank you. [[Voices from GERB "Eee!". Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, we will support the proposed Draft. I open a clamp between first and second readings we reserve the right to make proposals that have been made over the years at different times. Proposals for 300 BGN were made, proposals for 500 BGN were made. a minimum pension, in general over the years, there has been some competition in making proposals to increase minimum income. What is pension really like? Definition of the pension, what does the pension mean is deferred payment. Retirement is an income that replaces income from labor. That is, when you worked, you had the opportunity, the obligation, to make insurance contributions, then, when the insurance event occurred, you received the corresponding compensation for paying insurance contributions. The idea of the minimum pension is to ensure a minimum standard of living. Unfortunately, with the size currently available in Bulgaria the minimum pension for internship and age, this is not going to happen. There is therefore another possibility in the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. This opportunity is called the "social assistance'. The second defense network of the state is the so-called social assistance! What we have been doing all these years of transition is, through the pension system, we are solving the problems of social policy, which is not the best approach. We are putting the pension system in a difficult position, under a severe financial deficit, only because we are trying to solve all other problems through it. There are social services, there are social support, there are different forms of energy and other support. These services must be targeted in order for a low-income person to meet his minimum needs. In this regard, let us separate pensions from social assistance! Colleagues, how can this happen? If we want people with minimum benefits from pensions, those who have only one income from a pension, this income can be complemented, as in other countries, with a specialized fund. I'm going to give you the financial estimates in a few minutes anyway, and that money is already being paid by taxes. You don't pay for insurance payments! The National Assembly and the Council of Ministers are obliged to think and solve this problem once and for all, to answer the question: can we solve all problems in Bulgaria through the pension system? We have tried to solve the problems of miners, of metallurs, of army, of police, of security sector, and what is it? It turns out that the problems through the pension system of sectoral policies are not solved, but the opposite is the problems of the pension system are in-depth. Why am I saying this? The transfer, which makes the Ministry of Finance to the State Social Security for 2017, is 4 billion and 400 million. The pensioner who receives the minimum pension goes to the store, buys cheese and with the VAT he pays, refinances back this humiliating low amount of pension. That's the situation right now. I would like to tell you that we in the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms support any effort to seek opportunities. However, these opportunities must be used in a way that does not increase the deficit. Now look what we're talking about! The importers say that the costs did not increase. How not to increase costs by saying that the costs are 100 million more than those provided for in the 2017 budget? We say that these costs will be covered by the overexecution of revenue. Dear colleagues, changing the budget law based on assumptions based on the current situation! What if there wasn't such a re-enactment by the end of the year? Then what are we doing? What about the 100 million that we're talking about being more than 104 million by the end of May say the NRA is more than insurance contributions? Remember that 50 million of them have already been consummated for Easter benefits. The amount that remains now is 50 million. Here is a singleness in the budget procedure that we are currently implementing. One more thing! See what the Public Finance Act says. I read verbatim: Art. 19. The provisions of regulations which provide for an increase in costs, as is the case now, a reduction in revenue and/or a commitment to expenditure/payments, after annual State budget laws have been adopted, the budget of the DVO and the budget of the NHIF, should not be foreseen to enter into force earlier than their amendment or since their entry into force for the following financial year. Are we violating the Public Finance Act or are we not violating it? Anyone can answer their own questions! Ladies and gentlemen, to date, the minimum amount of pension each month is financed by budget money, with tax money of 19 million. On an annual basis, that makes 228 million, that is, the minimum amount of pensions now received each month is estimated at 19 million. What we are proposing as a first step now, for the increase for each month, 8 million and 800,000. For the second step, 14 million and 7. Did it happen on a monthly basis for next year 42 and a half million? Multiplied by 12.. 510 million unbound with income from insurance contributions. Are we deforming the model in Bulgaria or not deforming it? What's this about? The National Assembly is currently writing a check to the Minister of Finance. Mr. Minister, consider the decision of the National Assembly and predict 510 million for next year, unbound with social security contributions! That's the big truth! And someone telling me that in this way there is no violation of the budgetary procedure, that justice in the system is not violated, that it must read a little bit more and a little more deeply, so that it can come to the truth that this increase is at the expense of debt funding, because every budget deficit is financed by debt. There's no other way! That's what I wanted to tell you. And the last thing I want to graduate with, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Because with the colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria, who spoke a little while ago, came a discussion: who has increased the pensions more? and I want to tell you the following thing. Documentaryly, I go back in years: 2008, the Swiss rule has been introduced for the first time since 1 July. Since October 1st, all pensions have been revalued with the 2007 insurance income. This is a 22% increase. In 2009 as of 1 January, an increase in the minimum pension for internship and age by 10%. As of April 1st, the burden factor of each year of a one-unit insurance service increases to 1.1%. From 1 April 2009 the maximum pension of BGN 490 is increased to BGN 700. Since July 1st, 9% has updated all pensions. That's what the Triple Coalition did. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ladies and gentlemen, take your time clapping! I love this thing, but you know why? Because, nevertheless, the current expectations of fellow importers are exactly as expected back then. However, thanks to these decisions, the power then came in 2009, GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u47	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. Let's greet our guests. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius in Krivodol. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, we are continuing with our speeches. Mrs. Dimova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We from the GERB Parliamentary Group will support our proposed Draft Law amending the Law on the Budget of State Social Security submitted by the Council of Ministers, which provides for an increase of the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age from 1 July 2017 to 180 BGN and from 1 October 2017. It's 200 BGN. The proposal is in line with the government's commitments under our coalition agreement. These are the first efforts towards bringing the minimum pension closer to the poverty threshold. The increase of the minimum pension for internship and age from 1 July 2017 from 161,38 BGN. At 180 leva. is practically an increase of 11.5 percent and an increase of 180 BGN. 200 leva. From 1 October represents an increase of 11.1 percent. The same rates will increase the minimum size of the other pensions for employment activities, which are determined by a percentage of the pension for retirement and age, namely disability pensions due to general illness; disability pensions due to occupational accident and occupational sickness, and inherited pensions. As a result of this increase, around 668 thousand pensioners will benefit from this increase, or slightly over 30%, and from 1 October the number of pensioners with a minimum pension size will be around 800 thousand, representing 37.8 percent of pensioners for employment. Thirty-seven and eight percent will receive a minimum retirement pension of 200 BGN.! It takes about 100 million to do so. BGN, which will be covered by the expected re-execution of the revenue plan under the budget of the state social security. This means that the budgetary balance of state social security will not change. There will be no need to change transfers or otherwise: no update of the State Budget Act is required. The proposal was examined in accordance with the requirements of the Social Security Code in the Supervisory Board of the National Insurance Institute, as well as in the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation, as experts at the National Insurance Institute participated in the formation of the estimates when examining the Bill. Colleagues, it is a fact that at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, as well as the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Bill was supported by all parliamentary groups, which shows that the debates are unnecessary and populist. It refers to the most vulnerable group, namely pensioners and people with minimum pension, so it is right to unite. Colleagues, I call on you to support the bill thus tabled.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u49	Thank you, dear Mrs. Dimova. - What's the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u50	Dear Mrs. Chairman, Dear Mrs. Dimova, Dear Members! The arguments you used to support your proposal last week were arguments relating to no support for our proposal. In this way we also discredit the system and those who have higher incomes stop believing in the system. Where is your principle of solidarity and equality? It is clear that neither with less than 200 BGN, nor with 200 BGN. You can live, but what do we do with those people who have been paying their taxes conscientiously, who have worked for more than 40 years and are now getting 210 BGN. Retirement?! Currently the minimum pension is 161.38 BGN and from 1 July will become 180 BGN. Such a minimum pension is granted to all those people who have contributed their insurance in the last 18 years to the minimum social security income. Well, this will lead to mass practice of hiding incomes and making minimal contributions. In any of the speeches of the party that is currently ruling, we have not heard the word "I'm sorry"; "Excuse Bulgarian pensioners for what we are doing right now and for breaking the principle of solidarity and equality!" "Sorry that before the elections we promised you 300 BGN. a pension with which we won elections, and we are now forgetting about these promises! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP.]] We apologize to all workers who are in charge of contributing to higher income contributions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in the end, what's next?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u51	The weather, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u52	You work, you don't work, you get! [[Noise and lines from GERB and OP. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u53	Thank you. Second line? Here you go, Professor. Stanilov. No, you don't. Is there gonna be a second line? I can't see. A hole, Mrs. Dimova? There won't be. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u54	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, regardless of today who, what arguments will be found to say: I am going to vote in favour, but you see, I am against it, we have to recognise one thing. This is the first case in which a Bulgarian government at the beginning of its term of office a month and a half after it started working increases the incomes of the most vulnerable group of society. [[Applause on the right.]] It is not done in the middle of the term of office or at the end of the term of office, but is done at the beginning. Just a month and a half of work! I think this is actually a good measure. I am pleased that my fellow Members on the left, on the right, from the centre of this House will support this increase and I would also be even happier to see them working with us furiously to achieve higher levels. Why, colleagues? This increase is really in the most vulnerable group of Bulgarian pensioners and even more vulnerable part of it, namely those who receive minimal income under art. 68: For service internship and age. These are those who have worked their whole lives, retired and are currently receiving 161.38 BGN, and at the end of the year, life and health, 200 BGN. And, hopefully, more. I hope there will be more people in this room who will use all the energy we have seen here and in the committees' debates, so that we can work to increase pensions and I will tell you why. Mr. Ademov and Mr. Biser Petkov, acting as Minister, mentioned something very important. The pension represents a substitute income. This substitute income in 2009 to date has shifted its weight from 52% before 2009 to 30 percent. Right now, with this proposal, we're going to bring it back to 40%. At the moment, with the proposal for the increase of the minimum pension, we will correct not only the minimum pension, but also four other types of pensions that are accompanying. Yes, indeed we have led this battle. We have not retreated from this battle, and we will not retreat. As I said in my reply, I have come with my intention to change the life of the Bulgarian pensioner and I would be happy not to find ways to say: No, this will not happen! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u55	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, on behalf of the Bulgarian BSP, we said that we would support it, but that is not enough. I also do not accept that by talking about a group of pensioners, in particular, to think only of those with the minimum pension. Let's think about all the seniors. That's why it's nice to have all pensions revalued. However, last week you rejected it and now suddenly you say: "We are thinking about the people with the lowest pensions. However, a week ago, one MP from GERB, who is now silent, is perhaps ashamed of him, Mrs. Svetlana Angelova, says: "The faces with less contribution to the insurance system should be matched with those with a greater contribution. That is, those who have at least contributed to the insurance system, we will now raise their income to match those who have de facto been correct to the insurance system. This is a violation of the basic pension model in Bulgaria, namely equality and solidarity. We don't say it, we say it from your coalition. That's why I'm saying we're going to support him, we're going to want 300 levs. a minimum pension, as you promised, but you failed to keep your promise. Because in this way, I apologize, it is exactly that the trust of Bulgarian politicians is ruined. That's why we from the BSP for Bulgaria....all that we promise, put it on the table....we want to vote the laws. [[noise and raging in GERB]] And you're lying to the voters! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Stoynev, I don't know why you're giving us the primos that are true to other governments where you and the DPS were running together. Lying is not our thing, I beg you very much! On the contrary, we have set management priorities within four years and I said a month and a half, we have started with a significant step. Please! That you are used to working productively in another environment is not typical of our environment in which we function. That's the first one. The other thing is that maybe you didn't hear my call to unite in this room, regardless of our party color and find money. Because it's one thing to say we'll want 300 BGN, but without providing it. That's why I asked you to give us a guarantee, we could be looking for 1,000 BGN, we could be looking for 2,000 BGN. If we find the money to secure this increase, yes, we do, no matter what our party color is. That's what I called you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u59	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. If you'd like to make a statement, please, Professor. Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! I am only going out to make an adjustment to speeches here that are not in this context to speak the truth. The speakers said that we promised before the elections 300 BGN, we won the elections and we gave 200 BGN. However, I do not remember GERB, who won the elections, promised 300 BGN. We promised them the United Patriarchs if we win the election. But we didn't win them! We went in with 27 MPs. This does not mean that we have won the elections and with 27 MPs I have told you five times here when we discussed your law can not become 300 BGN but become 200 BGN. We're doing what's possible. Once again, I will tell you: we have not won the elections, as long as you have said that the United Patriarchs won the elections that promised 300 BGN and do not give them! That's just not true. Just on the matter of lying, by discussing your law, I told you what the situation is. We didn't lie to anyone. We said: "If we win the elections.. 300 BGN......... they could give 500 BGN............. but we didn't win them as well as you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u61	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mrs. Taskova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u62	Madam President, honourable Members! You promised if you won the election to make the pension 300 leva. You have not won them and are currently transferring responsibility to GERB. Well, give the estimates and see where your experts have seen where the money is, because at the moment you claim that the money is gone and first you have to earn it Bulgaria and then increase the pensions. So, either you realized it when you promised it, or now give GERB the estimates to show where this pension will become 300 levs. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Taskova. Second line? I can't see. For the duvet, Professor. Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u64	Read it for 300 leva. we gave them when we were negotiating with GERB. These negotiations have led to 200 leva. These are GERB's estimates. This is, as they say, countering two concepts. There is no need to speculate with estimates of 200 or 300 leva. It's just that we didn't win the election and we got into power and we're doing what's possible. And when you of Volja will win the election, then you can settle it any way you want.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u65	Thank you, Professor. Stanilov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u66	Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending the State Social Security Budget Act, No 702-01-2, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 June 2017. Vote 187 MPs: 187, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill was adopted unanimously in the first vote. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u67	Dear Mr. President, I ask for a procedure to reduce the period for proposals between first and second readings to 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u68	Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made to reduce the period of first vote to 3 days. They voted 183 MPs: 183, no opposition and no abstentions. The three-day deadline has been accepted. Moving on to item two on the agenda: PROJECT DECISION TO DETERMINE THE COMMISSION FOR THE AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL ACCOUNTS OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS 2015 AND 2016 Importer is the People's Representative Menda Stoyanova on 9 June 2017. You have the floor, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask for a procedure for admission to the Chamber of Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, President of the Court of Auditors, Mrs. Gruncharova and Mr. Todorov, Vice-Presidents, as well as gentlemen Asen Kitov and Iliya Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u70	Please vote on the proposal made. Vote 151 MPs: 149, against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Invite the faces to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u71	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a draft decision setting out the Commission for the Auditing of the Annual Financial Statements of the Court of Auditors for 2015 and 2016, No 754-02-50, submitted by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova on 13 June 2017. At a meeting held on 15 June 2017, the Budget and Finance Committee examined that draft decision. The draft decision was presented by Mrs. Menda Stoyanova, who noted that representatives of all parliamentary groups are included in the composition of the Commission. As required by art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors included two statutory auditors. After a discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 21 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: Project! DECISION setting out a committee to audit the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for 2015 and 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 65, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Sets out an eight-member committee to audit the annual accounts of the Court of Auditors for 2015 and 2016, 2. Selects the composition of the committee as follows: The President: Diana Ivanova Yordanova MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB; Members: Evgenia Danylova Angelova MP from the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party GERB; Georgi Chenkov Turnovalyski MP from the Parliamentary Group BSP for Bulgaria Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova, Member of the Parliamentary Group, United Patriarchs. Sergey Manushov Kichikov, Member of Parliamentary Group Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Krastina Nikolova Taskova, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party, Iliya Nedelchev Iliev Asen Kostov Kitov 3. The Commission shall draw up reports on the reports referred to in paragraph 1. 1 to be submitted to the National Assembly by 30 September 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. You have the floor for speeches, colleagues. There are no Members of the National Assembly. Is the Court of Auditors willing to speak? I won't. We are voting on the proposed draft decision. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The draft decision has been adopted. Moving on to item three on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS TO APPROVATE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION ON THE TERRITORY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA, THE RADIO DISCLOSURES AND THE CONCRETENT CASES OF RADIOACTIVE DESTINATION OF PEATIC WATERS, THE REASONS OF THE TERRITORY OF BULGARIA, THE REASONS FOR THE SUCH RECOGNITION AND THE SUCCESSES FOR THE HEALTH OF THE CIVILS. The first project was introduced by the National Representative Georgi Kolev, Chairman of the Temporary Commission, on 20 June 2016; and by the Second Project for Decision of the People's Representatives Cornelia Ninova and Zhelyo Boychev also on 20 June 2017. Report of the Temporary Commission.. People's representative Yordan Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u73	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As we all know, on 28 April the National Assembly decided to establish a Temporary Commission for the establishment of potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens. The period of validity of this Commission, determined by a decision of the National Assembly, was two months. For these two months, and given the extreme importance of this issue relating to human health and the immediate public interest, the Commission began immediate work by attracting specialists in the field of water and water supply of the population, analysing the risk of human health, and taking measures...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u74	Mr. Apostolov, you must first read the Report. Read the Report and then the opinion of the importer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u75	♪ I can't believe on a regular meeting of the Commission on 14 June 2017 On 14 June 2017, a regular meeting of the Temporary Commission was held to establish the potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens on the following agenda: Presentation of results of the summary report of the Ecoengineering- The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Health: Dr. Angel Kunchev, Chief State Health Inspector, Prof. Valeria Hadzhidekova Director of the National Centre for Radiological and Radiological Control; prof. Prof. Dimitar Petrov; Zeko Ganev; and representatives of the Ministry of Economy: Luko Marinov and Velyo Iliev; representatives of the Ekoiering and some representatives of scientific and non-governmental organizations. The sitting was held on the following agenda, which found that it had not been received so far and did not come up with all the results and, due to the short period, no information was received available to the pool directorates and the Ministry of Environment and Water. In this regard, and on the basis of the delay in the results of radiological studies requiring technological time to conduct them and the large volume of the reports received suggests that the temporary committee's working period should be extended until 31 October 2017. He also proposes to the Council of Ministers to restore and activate the activities of the existing interdepartmental group dealing with this problem by updating its composition, including the necessary experts; to request official information from the National Centre for Public Health and the Bulgarian National Cancer Register to be provided with information to the Temporary Commission in a timely manner, but no later than two weeks and to have the reports submitted with a summary, including conclusions and conclusions, officially certified with the signature of authorised experts and Republican consultants. The interdepartmental Working Group's prepared report shall be submitted to the Temporary Commission officially signed by authorised persons.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u76	Now you can motivate your proposal. Now I'm talking about motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u77	And as I started at the beginning, this Commission immediately started to carry out its activities as soon as it was established, and at the first meeting on 3 May 2017, the Internal Rules of Employment and Activity of the Temporary Commission were adopted, a need for legal grounds for subsequent meetings, a hearing of ministers and competent representatives of various departments in relation to this serious problem. At the Commission's several meetings, it thoroughly analyses the available data, requires opinions, conclusions and reports of all involved ministries and departments, as well as scientific organisations, as well as individual experts. Information related to reports and problems from the Ministry of Energy was requested, in particular by the company "Eco-engineering" and the established inter-agency working group with orders of the three ministers of health, regional development and public works, environment and water. At the request of the Temporary Commission, the results of the sampling and analysis carried out were periodically presented and immediately measures were taken to stop water absorption from sources with high deviations from the water quality requirements. Based on this multilateral information submitted to the Commission and discussed with leading experts in this area, it has been found that the complete and effective work of this Commission is necessary to demonstrate and confirm the results of water samples by reference laboratories. Within the specified period of two months for the action of this Commission, these objectives cannot be achieved due to the following: firstly, we have a delay in the results of radiological studies, we do not have the necessary information from some institutions, although there are letters sent in due time, and a lack of summaries of bulky reports containing over 800 pages. Such summaries to the report are missing at all. At a regular meeting held on 14.06.2017, the Commission, with 7 votes for abstention, took the decision that, given the need for a comprehensive analysis of the information collected in the work process and the forthcoming receipt, in connection with the delay in the results of the radiological studies requiring technological time to conduct them, the large number of reports received, it is necessary to extend the Commission's deadline by another three months. We suggest: Project! DECISION extending the period of the Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission to identify potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens for a period of three months.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. An importer's opinion on the second decision "Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I would like to recall in a few words the reason for the establishment of this Temporary Commission. It was precisely to respond to the tension created in Bulgarian society, given the high content of uranium and alpha activity found in the water used for drinking needs in Haskovo and other settlements in the country. Our goal was to send out a signal to calm people down and, of course, to look for an answer to the big questions: is there any concealment of information from the population, given the danger of consuming this type of water? Which institutions knew about this and did not inform the citizens accordingly? The big question: what are the solutions to this situation? One of the things that this Commission has set itself to do is to find a very quick answer to these questions and to propose these solutions. I regret that we are currently starting this debate and have nothing to go out with in front of the Bulgarian citizens, so we have allowed ourselves, on behalf of the parliamentary group, to make this proposal for a solution and, at the first point, to propose an extension of the Commission's work by only 30 days, and, at the second point, we insist on the Temporary Commission to establish potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters to submit an interim report by 28 June 2017. It is quite normal practice and it is natural before an extension of the work of any temporary committee is required to determine what has been done so far. We owe this not only to us, we owe this to all the people who are at risk one way or another, to know what the Commission has done and therefore, Madam President, we propose this Project for a solution. I am making a procedural proposal to you when you put it to the vote if they can be put to separate votes first and second. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u80	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. I'm opening the debate. Mrs. Yoncheva, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u81	Madam President, honourable Members! It's water from Haskovo. [[Shows a bottle of water.]] I was there on Monday. [[Radio.]] Haskovo water, which has been banned from drinking and domestic use since April. Nevertheless, the people of Haskovo continue to cook with this water, continue to bathe. If you go to Haskovo and order coffee in a restaurant you are likely to make coffee from this water. But you probably won't drink this coffee and I'll explain why. There is information that so far is not public and I ask myself: why is it not public? In April 2017, the National Centre of Radiobiology and Radiation Protection came up with an analysis of Haskovo's drinking water for end-user. 24 samples have been made from different points of the Haskovo End User, from the homes of the citizens and from the auction sites. 23 samples of a total of 24 showed increased alpha-activity values from 10 to 32 times. So here's the analysis. [[shows the plastic bottle of water]] 10 to 32 times! The increased alpha-activity values are both new and old before entering the European Union. Higher alpha activity means increased water radioactivity, ladies and gentlemen. Today in Haskovo there are only a few watermen of 17 watermen who were established in April 2017. People in Haskovo ask how dangerous this water is to them because they continue to use it for domestic purposes. Let us be responsible and give them an answer to this question. I'll leave this water in the cafeteria. [[shows water bottle again]] And whoever wants to use it or order coffee. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! As a member of this Commission, I would like to say a small part of my impressions of her work. The Commission has started well. He had full cooperation from all state authorities while running the caretaker government. Personally, after that, a boycott started from the organs. Maybe some people are looking at me surprised. The interagency group isn't working. For example, the Ministry of Environment and Water is from last Wednesday, when we had a Commission meeting, there was no representative in the Interdepartmental Group, which practically blocked its work. By blocking the work of this group, the work of the Temporary Commission is blocked. This is clearly the reluctance of many state authorities to cooperate. There have been letters sent by the President of the Commission to require individual samples. The silent refusal by the pool directorates exists. No one had reacted until that moment. What has our decision on the extension of the Commission's work period been dictated from? From the very beginning, we from our group as importers wanted three months. It was suggested two, we were against it, but in the end it was accepted so people wouldn't get the impression that if you want to not do a job or want to do a job, create a temporary committee. We in our parliamentary group will insist openly this time that this will not happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u84	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Let me just remind you that both decisions are for an extension of the Commission's term.. One is for one month and the other is for three months. Second line? I won't. Yoncheva Hanım, will you do a douche? No. Come in for a speech, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! We have listened carefully to both proposals for extending the work of the Temporary Commission. If memory serves, at the Commission meeting, we decided to extend the work to three months, not three months. The difference is tangible. I would like to point out two reasons for example ten which I could list in order to extend the work of this Commission. First, it has been working for two months, and so far we have not received, nor can we make publicly available the data from the studies carried out................................ whether there are really increases in the values of uranium, alpha and other causes of water pollution. Secondly, since there was evidence in the media that there was water pollution in other regions of the country, then there was talk about Pernik, Dimitrovgrad, about some other settlements, the Commission met for two months, but for those two months we gathered last month in May, demanding clear data from the pool directorates about the samples they took from the respective regions. At this point, we have not received these data, ladies and gentlemen. And I ask: why? Why is this data slowing down? Why do we, as the Commission, not yet have this information?! A Commission was created from the office to the three ministries, which is currently not working either. I think that this is not about left or right policy or any of the above. It is about attitude towards Bulgarian citizens who have sent us to the National Assembly and want to know the truth............... whether the cause of this pollution is the wasteyards, whether they are underground, groundwater or other factors. And if we continue in the same spirit, we will once again prove the helplessness of this National Assembly. I do not want the National Assembly to become an executive function! Mr. Boychev, it may be appropriate to obtain a temporary interim report from the Commission until mid-July, but by one month to extend its work. That is why, in the Commission unanimously, I repeat, once again, that the vote was unanimously adopted to extend the work to three months. I think this is the resonant period in which all indicators will be able to come up and the Commission will come up with a final report and proposals for amendments to certain laws and decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u86	Mr. Ibryamov, I would just like to draw your attention to the Commission's proposal. This is your proposal to vote on it within three months. You will make a proposal as an editorial amendment. - What's the line? Here's a line, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ibryamov said that we voted unanimously in the Commission to extend its work. That wasn't entirely true. I personally voted abstention. I would like to explain my reasons why I abstained from voting for the extension of three months. I believe that while this Commission is working in the way it is working so far, only to look for the problem and the causes of it, it is not in any way looking for a solution to this problem. The problem evidently exists not from the moment of the Commission's creation, but from quite a few years ago, because also the reports of the Ministry of Health showed that in Haskovo the incidence of cancer malignancy is the highest in the country. Whether the reason for this is in the water or not, we can only guess. It is obvious that there is a problem with water quality in Haskovo, and it is not only with the presence of alpha radiation, not only with the presence of what has been discovered lately We know that for many, many years there have been very significant increases in the amount of manganese and some other heavy metals in the water not only of Haskovo but also in other areas of the country. I abstained from voting for an extension precisely because, as long as this Commission continues to work in this way, obviously no solution will be sought. In this case, because it is not the Commission's job to look for a solution to the problem, I appeal to the executive gentlemen to take more urgent measures to find a solution to the problem, and if I am to vote in favour of extending the Commission's deadline, it would be in view of the Commission, however, of controlling transparency in finding this solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Second line? I don't see a second line. For the back, Mr. Ibryamov? No. Mr. Kostadinov, come in for a statement. And Mr. Ermenkov signed up for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u89	Madam President, honourable Members! I am not entirely convinced that the statistical medical picture is so dramatic in Haskovo. This, of course, is subject to further analysis and will be perhaps another task. There are such observations, but what are the reasons, my fellow Member, and what is due is another matter. Dear colleagues, it may be strange for you, but I want to do two things. Firstly, I would like to thank you for setting up such a temporary committee. Secondly, I would like to thank you for considering the content of the work being extended. Indeed, if I have to solidarity with everything that each of our fellow Members has said here, it will sound like this: bear in mind, I am also a member of this Commission, that the National Assembly as a body and the work of the Members of the National Assembly in this case becomes extremely important and valuable. I'm saying this for the following reason. We work very hard in the Commission, we are very slowly provided with information, very difficult to do the whole process. Everything that each of our colleagues said is true. There is no new interagency task force scheduled. Swimming directorate, MOEW, a little slow input of data, all of this is a fact. If we have such stiffness, such a delay by the administration, I believe that the role of the National Assembly and the MPs becomes even more significant. I would therefore like to call on each one of those who are talking after me to start discussing the question in a meaningful way: what exactly extension is necessary in order not to leave the idea that we are meeting indefinitely, but also to do our job and to be useful? It's a very serious problem. He shows up in a few more places in the country, we have a look at these things. I would like to thank both the President of the Commission and all my fellow Members, because really extremely responsible, with a great sense of responsibility, are in the work of this Commission. But understand, we have taken six proposals at the last meeting, and we have voted again to ask for information from the state institutions, to remind them that they are late with their reports. Radionuclids didn't come back. All this says that such an extension is necessary obviously and Mr. Boychev's proposal and what the Commission proposed somewhere in the middle is the answer to this question. By thanking you once again for supporting such a Temporary Commission, I can say that I support an interim report in a reasonable period and give us a chance in a tight, short time with an extension that you decide to help people in Haskovo and give us a real picture. Thanks to all your colleagues. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Kostadinov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Mr. Ermenkov for a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we created this Commission, I think you all remember very well that we of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, The parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is proposed to be three months. Then I will read some of the comments from the shorthand of 28 April 2017 to find out what this is about. A colleague from the ruling majority says: "I propose that the deadline be reduced from three months to two months, as I believe that these two months are sufficient. The Commission shall examine the facts and circumstances and issue a detailed report in three months. I think the subject is too important at this time, and the longer this Commission lasts, the less people will be aware of the circumstances and de facto its work will become meaningless. The more time, the better. Thank you. A colleague of the ruling majority claims that the deadline must be shorter than three months. Another colleague, also from the ruling majority, says: "It is important that society knows the truth, it is important that society and people have peace. For the full investigation, there'll probably be time. However, it is important to know if there is danger, if there is no danger. Having created such a suggestion among the people, this Commission should be able to tell the truth as quickly as possible. Thank you very much. As a matter of fact, a colleague from GERB also mentioned an extension of the deadline: The Ruler allows us to extend the term of the Commission. But we must set an ambitious goal. The ambitious goal is to come up with objective data as quickly as possible and whatever is necessary, if we must, of course, first say whether society is threatened by what is happening in the region with this drinking water. Secondly, let's see what measures are needed. Thirdly, let us see what is the situation in other regions of the country where there are similar cases and possibly take responsibility from those who have not done the work, and measures to be taken from here on by the executive, of course, and by the legislative. I think that we should set our ambitious goal in two months to complete the work in order to calm society. Colleagues, this was two months ago, these are your speeches and now, with an apology, a little sharper, but I will ask you three questions, to the so-called ruling majority: have you calmed the public down and have you achieved a result in these two months, for which you claimed it would be sufficient? Have you defined measures to be taken from here on by the executive, of course, by the legislative Again, for those two months that you insisted on, you now claim that you need much more time. What changed colleagues from 28 April 2017 to today? Perhaps only that the political hangover has passed since the establishment of the government and you have now realized with a bitter headache that you are not a ruling majority but are serving the government majority and its whims and its demands. You have realized that none of this government pays attention to you and even ignores the information you have requested, which in this Commission at the moment each of you has said: we are not receiving, we are not being given, we want, but we do not have an answer. You understand that the reality of today's political life in Bulgaria is bitter for all those who believe that we live in a parliamentary republic. In fact, today's proposal is a symbol of the powerlessness to deal with the government administration and its political leadership. I hope you've really sobered up with your future parliamentary behavior and disprove these words of mine. Otherwise, once again, as always consistent in defending our position, we will support the extension of the deadline by another month to return to our initial proposal of 28 April I hope for this month, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, you will explain to the cabinet Borisov 3, first, his constitutional duties, and God willing, make him do it. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u92	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For lines, please! I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to our next speech, Mr. Chakarov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u93	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We, from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will support the extension of the term for the work of the Temporary Committee of inquiry as our considerations are as presented by my colleague Ibryamov just now. I will add, I will say some more of our considerations, for which we would like to continue the work of the Temporary Committee of inquiry. It was formed in order to clarify the overall objective situation and to approach correctly, at the height of responsibilities that we should have on this extremely sensitive subject and situation in which people are located in the regions where deviations have been identified from the.. I will not repeat them in relation to uranium and alpha activity. Our first point is that, unfortunately, until now, they have not fully received the documentation which was requested at the start of the work of this Commission by the competent authorities, both at central national level and by the regional structures of the relevant ministries. The lack of complete information does not allow the members of the Commission to carry out a thorough and effective analysis and relevant conclusions, relevant.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. At the beginning, when we had discussions and debates in plenary, we pointed out that it is good to have coordination between the relevant competent authorities. Unfortunately, from the work found not to be done, it is evident that the Interdepartmental Working Group is not functioning. At the last meeting of the Commission, we addressed the Council of Ministers to restore the work of the Interdepartmental Working Group. This is extremely important because, first of all, let us be given to all of us the Members of the National Assembly and the Members of this Commission and the documentation and the information that concerns matters in the light of the recent research that is being carried out. We have been informed by the representatives of the relevant competent authorities that this information has not been finalised, that the studies are not final. We're waiting for the results! From everything I list, it is clear that it is necessary to have this documentation and information available, to obtain it, on the basis of which to analyse it, to make the relevant decisions, to have adequate measures and actions. We need to analyse all this, to give the prescriptions, so that we can be correct to our fellow citizens in these regions, and such an examination was also ordered by the prosecution. That's the kind of offer we had. In all other regions, let it be explored. If there are deviations from the norm in relation to drinking water, preventive measures should be taken. In view of these considerations, we propose that the work of the Temporary Committee of inquiry be extended to three months. We appeal to all competent authorities to take a responsible approach and to provide the necessary documentation and information to the members of the Commission and then to all MPs so that we can take an objective and correct position with great concern for our fellow citizens, who are not only from the Haskovo region, but also where necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Chakarov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Apostolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u95	Madam President, honourable Members! This is a flexible topic and is tossed like a hot potato, and at the same time the problems are clear and there are! In this regard, in order to stop talking politically and make a decision that will benefit all people in affected regions, I propose that our draft decision be of two points. Madam President, I'll read. First, to extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission for the establishment of potential danger and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens until 30 September 2017. Secondly, in order to meet the expectations of the majority of the House and to show that the Commission still has sufficient data, but we need time to process and present them to you and to the people, we propose as a second point the Temporary Commission to submit an interim report on its activities by 15 July 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! I had no intention of speaking today, but since I had just listened to slogans that did not go at all to people who did not show up at the Temporary Committee without mentioning their names, but they were the most extreme in their speeches, conclusions on whether the Commission was working, whether it was a function of the Council of Ministers or the executive, how Parliament did not work and so on. At the risk of, perhaps, Mr. Ermenkov taking a personal explanation, as he quotes a Member from the ruling majority, let us say that I recognize myself in the words that I said when the debate was two, or three months, I will repeat my arguments again. And then, and now I think that the Commission really should come up with a solution an hour sooner. Whether there has been some institutional omission in the situation, whether there is a danger to the population and society, or whether there is, with what recommendations the Parliamentary Commission can come up with, because we are not really an executive, there is no way to make a decision for example to build treatment stations for every well used for drinking water. And then, and now I am telling you that the sooner this Commission comes out with its decision and we vote it in plenary, the better! I would like to say that in this Commission, in those two months in which it was sitting, many things have become clear. First of all, there is no direct danger to the population of society. If you had been present at the Commission, you might have had this opportunity to hear from the experts from both the Ministry of Health and the RGI that there is no direct danger to people. I won't! Because we listened to you explain back then that it was almost the second Chernobyl. The co-worker in the front was explaining it. This was the second Chernobyl: how the institutions kept their mouths shut, how they hid this information from people, but it actually turned out to be, and if you had taken a reference rather than carrying mineral water, I would have gladly tried this water instead of talking this thing, you should have made a reference to see how the institutions actually, although you might not be trusted, did their job. At the moment when there were slight increases, it does not matter whether they were light or higher, but when there was evidence of elevated uranium in drinking water, RZI immediately issued prescriptions for stopping wells. That means you may not believe it, but the institutions have done their job! We lightly throw some mud at some people, some institutions, some directorates, and actually people did their job. We don't have to do political PR to show who's the bigger judge for people's safety. On the contrary, the only argument I will support, and I will support what my colleague said just now about extending the deadline, and GERB's group, is that there are data that have not yet been submitted to the Commission. But I would like to say that the Commission has been working fully together so far. I can commend all my colleagues, whether they are ruling or opposition, because our dialogue is really constructive. I wouldn't have spoken if it wasn't for those sharp banter for cheap political PR. The Commission has no such purpose! The Commission's objective, and we supported its creation, GERB supported this Commission, although it was at your initiative, colleagues on the left, we supported it only to show people, to see if there is danger or no danger, whether there are gaps that can be cleared or not. That is the point of this Commission, not of making some PR here and fooling society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. - What's the line? Mrs. Yoncheva, come in for a line. During this time, please welcome our guests from the region of South-South, Plovdiv [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u99	I would just like to remind Mr. Nenkov that this Commission should also establish why there has been such a delay of over six months to inform the citizens of Haskovo about contaminated groundwater. And one more thing: the comparison between the situation in Haskovo and Chernobyl was a comparison of Mr. Radev of the Bulgarian President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u100	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yoncheva. Second line, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I'm taking a line, not a personal explanation, so you can answer me, because otherwise you wouldn't be able to do it. What you said about the banter was not a joke, it was a quote from a stenogram of your positions, and some of them are really concern. But I couldn't understand the difference: why do you think it should be two months, and now it should be another four months?! That I could not understand, and that is why I have made a statement to note to you that at the moment you have no influence over the government. You have questions for the institutions, but they don't answer you. This is the only reason that can make you extend this Commission's term. This was concern, and it was not ironic, because ultimately it is up to all of us in this Parliament to be a parliamentary republic, or Parliament to be a service body to the government. That was the point of my speech, nothing else. Otherwise, I do not really have any comments on the Commission's need to come up with a report that will dispel any doubts and put the truth where it belongs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Third line, Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u103	Mrs. Chairman! Mr. Nenkov, I wouldn't have taken any part in this, but look: we are creating a Commission to reassure the public opinion that Parliament, the highest authority, will come up with a position on how the institutions work and what is the state of the problem of water pollution. There is an extremely good opportunity, in the regions there are laboratories, there are opportunities for these facts to be collected and summarized and an hour rather the parliament to decide how the Bulgarian state institutions work. The extension of this Commission's reasons raises doubts: "Aha, you haven't done your job, so there are problems." This is where the question arises. From this tribune you say: One thing has become clear that there is no problem with water pollution. At the same time, the Commission is not ready to rule, to come out and say: "Dear Bulgarian citizens, there is no risk to your health. We have obliged the ministries to take these and these decisions subsequently. Why are we extending the deadline? For greater transparency! Of what? Why do we have to extend the deadline? That someone isn't cooperating, isn't cooperating with the data?! Like what?! The mere extension of the deadline raises doubts that there is a problem. What's the problem? The President of the Commission is gone, this is a member speaking. The fact that the MPs were meeting and they were well-behaved and they were debating, it doesn't matter at all. There is no result of this Commission and the Bulgarian public continues to be in doubt. That doubt could have been distracted today! To stand up and say: "So far we have these and these facts. Don't worry, Bulgarian citizens! You say it in a personal capacity. That's why I don't understand your motives. There is something disturbing about the relationship: whether parliament is a state or there is a problem down there.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. For the doppelganger, Mr. Nenkov. Colleagues, let's also congratulate the group of young people from Haskovo District who are our guests today. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u105	I have already, and now I will say why I really did not intend to speak, because I believe that the consensus work of this Commission should continue. I'll try to get into the normal dialogueal tone. Colleagues, I am not saying anything other than what I have said before, as Mr. Ermenkov quoted words from my speech for these two months. I'm saying why I didn't support him in the Commission for three months. I haven't been to the Commission, I haven't supported him for three months. To be honest, since I am not suffering from any scruples, your proposal for a month extension plus an interim report is correct. However, there are objective reasons that even when I have spoken, I have not been able to know them. They're waiting for a report that needs to prove where the alpha activity measured in these wells is, what's causing it. A danger to the population, to the people, no. That's not what I'm saying. That's what experts say. That's why I said: it is very nice to talk, but if you had bothered to come to the Commission at least once and listen to people experts from the Ministry of Health, ecology, etc., to follow up and see the problem that at the moment when there was some danger to the population, given the regulations, people had done their job and immediately stopped the well being used for drinking water. That is why I say that not Alexander Nenkov, but the people in the Commission said that they have done their job. Indeed, the motive for the extension of the Commission must be objective because a report is waiting to say what this alpha activity is due to. This takes more time than what we expected when we created this Commission. We supported her so people would understand. Ms. Dora Yankova, I didn't sign, I didn't vote on this draft decision you're taking out right now. That's why I'm trying to explain to you my position most correctly. And then, and now it was the same: this Commission should really show people that institutions are doing their job, not condemning them. Mrs. Yoncheva, whether President Radev said it does not matter, but it is a fact that false suggestions are being made from both this tribune and in society. It scares people, they don't trust institutions, and so we just undermine their prestige. And I believe that there are people who do their jobs, and we must somehow tolerate them, not talk, because we are in opposition, that everything is bad, wrong and that no one has done their job. On the contrary: people the moment they saw that there was some danger and an increase in uranium in the water, immediately, literally the next or the next day, if memory serves, have stopped the wells. And you're talking about Chernobyl here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u106	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u107	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we have shown for an hour, you especially on the left, who pleaded that we are not working or wasting our time, how we are wasting our time aimlessly. The Commission was established unanimously some time ago. No one in this House today has anything like me but to support an extension of the Commission's deadline. There are thousands of objective reasons for this, and colleagues who work in this Commission know that. But you here for an hour demagogize, continue your basic principle......... in order to spit indirectly again..... see the government, see the bad power, but, hide, but slow. But nobody's hiding anything! President Radev accidentally said so himself. Mrs. Yankova, you and your colleagues and your party, as you are so concerned about the Bulgarian people now, in this situation, a situation created 50 years and not in the last 50 days, where were you 31 years ago when Chernobyl flooded Bulgaria and today half of Bulgaria is sick of the silence of your party? [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u108	On the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u109	You kept quiet and supplied products, you hid from the people to keep the party alive and healthy and the Politburo, and today half the people are sick of this Chernobyl. Enough of this demagogy! We are all for this Commission, let us create it and end the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. - What's the line? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. First we will vote on the proposal of the President of the Temporary Commission Mr. Georgi Kolev: ? RESPONSIBILITY? extending the period of validity of the Temporary Commission to identify potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the causes of their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to identify potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens for a period of 3 / three/ months. We have editorial proposals here. First, I put to the vote Mr. Ibryamov's proposal: within 3 months. Please, voting mode. They voted 170 MPs: 27, Against 9, abstention 134. The offer is not accepted. There is one more proposal from Mr. Apostolov: the deadline to be until 30 September Please, voting mode. Vote 173 MPs: 160, no objection, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. There is a proposal from Mr. Apostolov to this draft decision to have and so on. 2, I respect it: "2." The Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for citizens' health to submit an interim report by 15 July 2017 Did I read correctly, Mr. Apostolov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u111	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u112	Voting mode. Vote 172 MPs: for 171, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are voting on the whole draft decision. Vote 171 MPs: 159, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. We continue with the vote on the second draft decision to extend the duration of the Temporary Commission to identify potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens The National Assembly has decided... Here we have a proposal from Mr. Boychev to vote separately the two points. Please, a voting regime for separate voting of the two points of the Draft Decision. Vote 169 MPs: 67 against 15, abstention 87. The offer is not accepted. I vote on the draft decision and respect it to the end: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 37, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. It shall extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission to identify potentially dangerous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking water in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens by 30 days. 2. The Temporary Commission for the identification of potentially hazardous and specific cases of radioactive contamination of drinking waters in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, the reasons for their occurrence and the consequences for the health of citizens to submit an interim report by 28 June 2017 Please, voting mode. Vote 169 MPs: 68 against 4, abstention 97. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u113	Colleagues, please take your seats. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: ANNUAL REPORT ON THE COMMISSION'S ACTION FOR PROTECTION OF THE 2016 CONSTRUCTION Opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. He'll read it, Mr. Kanev. Here you go, Mr. Kanev. The Quaestors, please invite your colleagues to enter the Chamber, because we will have access.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u114	Colleagues, I'm gonna start with the report until we gather for admission in the courtroom. "COMMODITY" the annual activity report of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2016, No 720-00-7, submitted by the Commission for Protection of Competition on 30 May 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 14 June 2017 examined and discussed the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2016, No 720-00-7. The meeting was attended by Mrs Julia Nenkova, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition (PCC), who presented the Annual Report. This report is submitted to the National Assembly in accordance with the requirements of art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition. It reflects the results achieved, the main findings, conclusions and assessments for the work of the KPC during the reporting period, as well as the objectives set before it for the following year. In 2016, the KPC formed a total of 989 proceedings, of which 160 under the Law on Protection of Competition, 825 under the Public Procurement Act and 4 under the Law on concessions. Within the period covered by the report, the definitions and decisions adopted by the Commission are in total 1143. During the reporting period, the Commission ruled with 1070 decisions or definitions with which the relevant proceedings were concluded, claimed infringement or imposed fines on natural persons for infringements committed by them under the Law on Protection of Competition or for non-information, and the rest were the acts by which the CPC ruled on other matters of its competence. In 2016, 15 proceedings have been initiated in the Commission, which have as their object the existence or absence of infringement under Chapter Three "Forbidden agreements, decisions and concerted practices" by the Law on Protection of Competition, 12 of which have been initiated on the basis of Commission decisions on the basis of art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law (on its own initiative) and the other 3 at the request of persons whose interests are affected or threatened by a violation of the Law. In 2016, the KPC carried out a total of 12 on-the-spot checks as the first procedural act in two of the newly formed proceedings. In 2016, a total of 13 proceedings were initiated in the Commission, which had the purpose of establishing the existence or absence of infringements under Chapter Four of the Law and 3 of them were initiated on the basis of the Commission's decisions on the basis of art. 38, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law (on its own initiative), 7 at the request of persons whose interests are affected or threatened by a violation of the Law, and 3 at the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court, with which the files are returned to the Commission for a new ruling.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u115	Mr. Kanev, let's vote hall pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u116	Proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Annual Report to invite: Julia Nenkova, Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition, and Dimitar Kyumyrdzhiev, Vice-President.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u117	Please, voting mode. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite the lady and gentleman.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u118	In 2016, the number of proceedings initiated increased compared to the previous year. The KPC continues to focus mainly on markets where there is a single provider of a particular service having the only possible infrastructure in a given territory and whose actions most affect the interests of consumers of those services. The number of decisions given preserves the trend of the previous year, as a result of the fact that, in the context of the proceedings being initiated, the Commission conducts in-depth investigations for full and comprehensive clarification of the circumstances, the subject-matter of the studies, and in a number of cases applies a legal instrument, namely the making of allegations of infringement. In 2016 the Commission adopted sectoral analyses of the competitive environment of the markets for production and realization of petrol and diesel in the Republic of Bulgaria; on the insurance market in the Republic of Bulgaria and on the retail market of medicinal products in the Republic of Bulgaria, included in the Positive Drug List, intended for home treatment, paid in full or in part by the National Health Insurance Fund. In relation to sectoral analyses carried out, the Commission shall inform the competent state authorities of the need to take appropriate measures to improve the competitive environment in the sector concerned. In 2016, the "Concentrations" department held a number of preliminary consultations at the request of participants in upcoming concentrations with a view to preparing notifications in accordance with the requirements of art. 79, para. 1 of the Law and the instructions issued by the KPC to complete the notification. In 2016, a total of 68 proceedings were initiated in the Commission aimed at establishing the existence or absence of violations of Chapter "Untrue competition"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Of these, 60 were formed at the request of persons whose interests were affected or threatened by a violation of the Law, 6 on the grounds of self-secution on the basis of signals submitted by citizens and as a result of their own market observations, and 2 in relation to files returned by the Supreme Administrative Court for a new ruling. By 40 decisions, the Commission has found violations of Chapter 7 and Chapter seven of the Law and has imposed property penalties and/or fines in total of BGN 14 783 525. The most frequent infringements in the area of unfair competition established in 2016 are related to unfair behaviour contrary to the prohibition on imitation under art. 35 of the Law, followed by dishonest conduct contrary to the general prohibition of unfair competition under art. 29 of the Law and violations of the prohibition of misleading advertising. In 2016, there is also a large number of decisions establishing infringements under art. 31 of the Law "Introduction into error." In accordance with art. 28 of the Law, in order to protect the free initiative in the business and to prevent the restriction or distortion of competition, the KPC carries out an assessment of compliance with the provisions of the Law on draft legislative or regulatory administrative and general administrative acts; existing regulatory or regulatory administrative and general administrative acts; draft acts of associations of undertakings governing the activity of their members. During the discussion questions were asked: the People's Representative Zhelyo Boychev, concerning the effects of the implementation of the new Public Procurement Act and the delay in making complaints, and the People's Representative Rumen Gechev, regarding the Commission's announced presence of a cartel in fuels. To the questions asked Ms. Nenkova answers that there is a delay in complaints, as they are numerous and the capacity of the KPC is not sufficient for their faster resolution. The Chairman of the KPC informed the MPs that an extensive proposal for amendments to the Law on Protection of Competition is being prepared, in which she expects parliamentary support. All three sectoral analyses made by the Commission in 2016 were submitted to the National Assembly. Regarding the doubts about the cartel in fuel, Ms. Nenkova said that there was indeed an exchange of information between suppliers, but it concerned the current state that information is public and does not concern future periods. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to take the following decision: Project! DECISION on the 2016 Annual Activity Report of the Commission for Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 11 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and in relation to art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2016
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u119	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. On behalf of an importer, Mrs. Neykova, are you going to say something or not? I won't. I give the floor for speeches. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the report on the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition has been proposed to our attention. This is the first report of the newly elected Chamber and Chairman of the Commission for Protection of Competition. I take the time back a little, in the turbulent discussions, when the personnel of the Commissioners and the President were appointed. I would like to recall that at that time a large part of the debate and hearings in the Chamber focused to a large extent our attention on the Commission's activities, not so much on the main part of its activities which they had so far, to be precisely the body to which the legality and all the acts and actions of the beneficiaries can be appealed under the Public Procurement Act and the concession law, but rather on what has it as a great expectation by the Bulgarian citizens and the Bulgarian business on the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition in relation to the rules of competition and free business initiative. From the Report I see that again the majority of the 989 cases that have been formed are the proceedings of the KPC, 825 of them are under the Public Procurement Act and the concessions Act, 160 are under the Law on Protection of Competition, 68 of them are under the Chapter.............................................................................. Abuse of a stronger negotiating position. There have been three sectoral analyses, as has also become clear from the presentation of the Report: the markets for fuels, insurance and pharmaceutical markets. The representatives of the BSP in the Commission did not support the Commission's report on Protection of Competition. We will not support it today in plenary.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u121	Why?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u122	Mr. Kirilov, I'm going to give some arguments about this position. Our high expectation of the Commission's action to protect competition is based on sectoral analyses carried out, based on business environment monitoring, to make relevant legislative proposals and to take appropriate action to overcome competitive obstacles to business work. This is for us the great task, the great focus we would like to see in the work of the Commission for Protection of Competition. We had a very large discussion in previous national meetings on changes to the Law on Protection of Competition. You know this big theme with the dominant position of some of the major retail chains compared to smaller suppliers. We would like and expect to hear in the Commission report to what extent we have achieved the objectives that we have set ourselves with the amendments to the Law on Protection of Competition. If the proceedings that have gone through the Commission show that there is a disadvantage, let us see what the proposals are and what the steps are, and if they need such a type of legislative or legislative change, it should be carried out. I miss that in the information provided. I would like to see much more actively the role of the Commission for Protection of Competition in this direction. The fight against competitive disadvantages and obstacles, the fight for free economic initiative is a fight for the interest of every Bulgarian consumer, every Bulgarian citizen. Because every sector we're talking about is in a few minutes, prof. Gechev will talk about one of them more closely, take the fuels, take the pharmacy, take the insurance market, eventually the price pays every consumer, every Bulgarian citizen with the increased values of the services we receive. Therefore, the Commission's great role in the protection of competition we see in this particular activity. I would like to say that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is ready to support all the proposals that will be made, including the Commission, precisely in this direction to overcome the obstacles that there are in the free market and competition in Bulgaria in order to have a fair negotiation of the market participants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u123	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u124	Madam President, honourable Members, honourable President of the Commission for Protection of Competition and Mr Vice-President of the KPC! I am making a reply, although my colleague Boychev's speech was in a spirit of lensism, to try to respect the objective facts and circumstances and merits in the work of the Commission. It was no accident that I took the liberty of reacting from a place: Why? After all the positive things Mr. Boychev said, why won't their parliamentary group support the report? I appeal to this, Mr. Boychev. Fighting for the free market, fighting for competition is not an act. It has many editions, many series, requires perseverance, requires constant effort. There are many tasks that the Commission and we have to solve, including those that must decide on the Legal Commission, but could not complete them in the Legislature of the Last Parliament. I would like to oppose you by personally supporting the Commission report. I would like to congratulate the new composition of the Commission with the start of its work and with the fact that, so far, the Commission has not made too much noise, no claims, no loud mottos and shares doing exactly its legal duties. I wish this trend to be established permanently in the work of the Commission in this mandate.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u125	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u126	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, we should eventually go in the right direction. I have also reported in the Report that there are more proceedings under Chapter 7 under the Law on Protection of Competition, and I believe that this is the right way. After all, it is important what the result of the work is. What does not allow us to support the Commission's Report on Protection of Competition are the completed few proceedings. Colleagues will be talking more about them in a little while. There was no feeling left in the Bulgarian society, in the Bulgarian citizens about some overly stated intentions by the Commission for Protection of Competition, which were in no way justified by the decisions taken by the Commission and the feeling that there will again be no justice in this. It prevents us from making these decisions. If you and I have done our job to make certain legislative proposals, we see the role of the Commission for Protection of Competition with these annual reports at the moment to introduce us to the results. I am not convinced that the decisions we have made with the amendments to the Law on Protection of Competition largely cover what we had set as a goal. I would like what does not happen today in the context of this debate not to prevent the Commission from doing its work in a better way. I know that they have a lot of obstacles to entering these companies and establishing such violations, but I want to see from them a more active role and seeking support from the Bulgarian National Assembly to change the legal and legislative basis so that they have no excuse tomorrow, coming out before us, to say that they cannot complete a production successfully and in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u127	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Mr. Gechev had made a statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u128	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll start with a few quotes. The new President of the Commission for Protection of Competition on 13 October 2016 declared to the media, I quote: "We have evidence that price coordination has been a continuous process. The sanctions will also be determined by a number of factors, the severity of the infringement, the period of the agreements, whether it is the first time and so on. Confess to her, she says to the intruders, and your punishment will be meted out, stated on 13 October 2016. In front of the Specialized Commission, the interim Commission for the verification of all data, facts and circumstances leading to doubts about distortion of competition in the fuel market and doubts about abuse of dominant position in the period 2008 - 2016 to the Commission, the President of the Commission stated, I quote: In their preliminary assessment, established in the allegations of infringement, the Commission considers that "Rompetrol Bulgaria"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Second quote: On November 10, 2016 the Commission claimed the companies of Lukoil Bulgaria. 15 of the ZPC and Art. 101 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, expressed in a prohibited agreement or concerted practices for the exchange of price information and the conduct of a common pricing policy and the exchange of information on the realization of volumes and sales and other market information. And last but not least, thirdly, I quote again: I can say that within the three months since I am the Chairman of the KPC, a huge work has been done with regard to supplementing the sectoral analysis of the cartel in fuels and I have achieved a good one, I have offered you the definition of the "Result" because of which we have found some serious co-ordination practices in terms of pricing policy and quoting the companies concerned. In a word, the Bulgarian public has been told by the KPC that it has found distortions of market competition, there is evidence irreconcilable and expects concrete results. A few months later the same Commission tells us that everything is fine in the cartel, there is no cartel in the fuel market, there is no fraud of the Bulgarian state, there is no fraud of the Bulgarian producers, citizens and companies, there is no fraud of the Bulgarian budget and everything is fine. Well, what's true, dear colleagues? Where's the truth? I would like to stress to the Commission that in the procedure the State Commission for Protection of Competition has lost in the procedures, as I quote: The defendants' lawyers were very good and I said the following: "Well, since the lawyers are very good, is that the apology of the Bulgarian state? A key state institution cannot deal with any good lawyers of the defendants. Well, if so, the Commission's leadership to resign and appoint these magnificent lawyers to lead the State Agency, because it is a market of several billion leva and it is a non-entry into the state treasury of hundreds of millions. Because, honourable Members, are you aware that our refinery is probably the only one in the world that has been working at a loss for decades? The same refinery has in Serbia, with the same owner. Well, go online and see that the profit is 232 million. Euros with half the capacity of Neftohim. I want to explain to you what is happening: the big sharks in Bulgaria do not pay their taxes. In our schools, in hospitals, in infrastructure, not hundreds of millions a year, just because their lawyers were very good and we have to accept this report. How is it that in Bulgaria the excise duties in Bulgaria do you know what they are in Bulgaria twice and a half lower are the excise duties on fuels from the northern countries of Europe, and twice below the level of the average European Union? Where does the money go at about the same prices? The price difference is 10 cents on average in the European Union. Where does this difference of 400 euros for 1000 liters of fuel go? It goes into the pockets of these men with good lawyers, so excuse me, but we can't let a government specialized committee state in public in press conferences that there is evidence to state to two committees that there is evidence of a cartel and at some point something happened in the spring of 2017, and here we need to explain what happened. What changed the conclusions of this Commission for Protection of Competition? What's the impact on this Commission, something from "Hello, Misho, how are you?" Or is there any other means of impact, since it is a lot of money? In a word, the Bulgarian state cannot tolerate a situation in which a huge company instead of having profits in hundreds of millions, it can report losses. I'm going to open up a clamp, dear colleagues, what is this firm where shareholders hold the government for 15 years after its privatisation and it's at a loss? What do normal shareholders around the world do, if it's at a loss, because the explanation that investments are being made in Bulgaria is, what are the beneficiaries in other countries in the Middle Ages? Don't they update their technology? So we're talking about huge scams here! And we do not agree with the Commission for Protection of Competition to draw some conclusions and then to wash its hands under someone's influence and say: "Excuse me, we made a mistake. And I say again, since you're weaker as a State Agency than some lawyers, we want your resignation, we'll invite our lawyers to head up the state commission. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u129	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u130	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a question. I read the report carefully. I've seen the numbers of the numbers that have been reviewed and all the numbers that have been given. Yeah, that makes sense. And despite everything that Mr. Gechev put, in my opinion, is extremely important because we can't suddenly find a cartel in fuel, then it turns out it's gone. I don't understand much about how fuel is produced, but one thing is absolutely clear to me. It's learning, I think it was still in elementary school, somewhere around the 6th grade. Then we learned how to produce, actually how to refine oil. Oil refining goes through several stages, and different products come out at different stages accordingly. And everyone who has studied and been to this lesson, has attended an class then, knows that diesel comes out somewhere in the middle of this process, and gasoline, and then the other things, come out at the top of the process, respectively, they have a different price. According to the logic of this simple production practice of fuel production, diesel has always cost twice as much as the production price of gasoline, simply because its production requires much less costs. So I took the floor now to ask a question. I understand that the Commission has conducted some pretty serious research on this issue, specifically for the Fuel Cartel. Obviously you have been dealing with this for a long time and I do not see which other state body can now answer and deal with the question in fact why are diesel and gas prices in the country the same? They are identical, by the way, not only in this country, but in all others almost, provided it is clear that the diesel has twice the cost as a production product. Please, the President of the Commission, I understand that you have dealt with this, you cannot have dealt with the fuel cartel for so long, and not answer this simple question? Why are diesel and petrol prices the same, given that we obviously have different production costs for both? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u131	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? A line? Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u132	Thank you. As a chemist engineer, I had a lot of fun listening to Mr. Kutev's thoughts. It must be a lot of fun for you if I start talking to you about fine art or health care. What Mr. Kutev said is simply shameful for a man to say it, shameful for a politician who has not yet read elementary information sources to understand that the price of diesel cannot in any way be twice as low as that of gasoline, in any way! Diesel is a fuel that is actually more expensive than gasoline because of the greater energy content in it. The gas is really slightly higher in the fractional column, slightly higher, not as much as it imagines and is comparable by price, by hydrogen content with diesel. Quite others are the reasons why the market and additional loads of the price of this fuel, which make its price different on the market, respectively. That was my line. Please, citizens who have some philosophical, historical or such education to read something before they go out to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u133	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u134	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kutev! I would like to take this line not to contradict your reasoning regarding the production price of diesel, but rather to respect the following that we are debating the Commission's report on competition at the moment, that is, the last word of the competition, is usually monitored from the point of view of the cross-point of the supply and demand curve, that is to say, it does not matter how much a product costs. The question is to find its market price based on supply and demand. Therefore, I am very surprised that you are looking for any direct, not indirect, but direct effects of how much a product costs. In fact, the Commission is therefore such a committee to monitor whether there is competition, whether there are at all such curves where this price is crossed. This is what we should be looking for, not looking for the production price and why so many fuel producers or suppliers have found. By the way, I'd also like to draw the following attention. You don't have to look for a cartel that maybe there is, maybe there isn't, and it's hard to prove. However, in the Commission, which we have made the Fuel Commission, in general terms, talked about oligopolise following a dominant position, i.e. following the driver, so to speak, with prices. I think the state can really do a lot of things based on what we've heard. I think we owe consumers, people for fuel, but we should not look for a direct link between a production price and a market price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u135	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Third line? I can't see. A hole? Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u136	Dear Mr. Nikolov, thank you for the explanation you gave me. By the way, this is not the first time I ask it publicly, and usually the answer I receive is precisely that we are not actually stepping on production prices, but at market prices and that in fact the market price is such. That is why the work of the Commission for Protection of Competition is. Because when one product is cheaper than another, if there is real competition, its cost of production would affect its market price only in case there is real competition. Here is the role of the Commission for Protection of Competition. Because if it protects competition when two products have different costs, they will respectively have a different price if the profit in both products is consistent with market principles. However, if profit is not consistent with market principles but is consistent with some form of cartel adjustments, then they start to have the same price because there is a deal in the cartel. Why are we having this conversation? And it is precisely the work of the Commission for Protection of Competition and of no one else, at least in this country there is nothing else. The Ministry of Economy cannot rule on this because it is the independent Commission that must do so. So this is exactly the work of the Commission and they should find the differences, because this is your direct path, in which the money of the Bulgarians goes directly into the pockets of large corporations. Every day we all pay and that goes up there, which is a problem. And back to Mr. Petrov, I think his name was. I apologize before that. Mr. Petrov, I remember the times, I apologize, I'm sorry, OK, I apologize. Look, I remember very well the times when diesel prices were substantially lower. Under materially I consider 60% of the price of gasoline and they have been for a long time such for decades. There are countries where they are now. So to convince me how it was, yes, a small difference, and they had supplements. I mean, that's what we're talking about. We're talking about the combination of your two speeches. So that one supplement and one non-market principle actually makes the price of diesel as it is. The state doesn't work here either. Not just this country. I am convinced that international corporations are strong enough to subdue any country, especially in Europe, unfortunately. That's the problem. For me, too, the problem is principled because it concerns every Bulgarian citizen. 'Cause it's 20. The difference in the price of diesel would save huge money for Bulgarian citizens and would, respectively, reduce the profits of some companies that have huge profits. It's huge. I don't know. I don't know. This is the mechanism by which refineries do not fail, but citizens fail.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. [[(Applause from the group of BSP for Bulgaria]] Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u138	Colleagues, I will try to be as very brief as ever and get back to the subject at all. As Zhelyo Boychev just said, where we came from and where we came from. Basically, if we have to go back to diesel and cartels, we'd better ask Mr. Mareshki to take the floor. [[Noise and laughter]] Because a lot of amateurs have spoken, but professionalism isn't there, I see. A few words. First, a remark to Ms. Nenkova and the management. It is normal when we listen to such a report, you are a collective body and here your entire management, including the Commission, must be all the management. We do not accept your report, we accept the Commission's report. And this Commission has been voted here in this House. It's just friendly advice. That was the case with the previous headmaster. Secondly, perhaps the most important thing I want to comment on, which concerns the business environment. The Commission's workload in the field of the Public Procurement Act is increasing and this is in the Report. The new POP procedure is quite severe and we currently have procedures that are actually sharpened by year and a half, two. We're losing European money. When a procedure is conducted, it lasts several months, then appeals begin. Examples as much as you want to take and toll the system. There's another five months going. Then starts the appeal in court, goes a few more months and practically the Bulgarian business in the absorption of money under the Public Procurement Act between one year and two years goes. I don't blame the CDC here because it's too much pressure. This is in the Commission and it is proposed to you. You are basically a body elected to this Parliament, and, unfortunately, there is no one to complain to..................... to us to help you. If you need states, what you need I don't know, but this can't continue, you are interfering with the normal work of the Bulgarian business. Tell us how we can help you! And the last, third point that I had written down, and this is the biggest problem that was still the creation of the Commission for Protection of Competition, if I am not mistaken, on one of the European Union's requirements before we entered it. However, it was planned as an organ that fought against cartels and monopolies. No one at the time imagined that it would become a first instance of the Public Procurement Act. At the moment, 90% of all the work of this Commission, which was created for another, is only under the Public Procurement Act. It's worth debating on this subject. She's a serious subject. It is a difficult topic to think about again whether we will continue this way in the future. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. - What's the line? A line or a statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u140	A statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u141	Let's give Mrs. Nenkova the floor first. Here you are, Ms. Nenkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u142	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In response to the criticisms I just heard, I'd like to start with the fuel cartel first. The verification of the presence of a cartel in fuels started as early as 2012 and the newly appointed Commission for Protection of Competition did not collect any new evidence. What was found in the course of the verification was an exchange of information at current prices between players on this market Indeed, I made a statement that we have the presence and found exchange of information about current prices, but you well know that current gas stations prices are on the dashboard itself, so it is no secret to anyone what oil and diesel prices are at this time. Once there has been a claim of infringement, I would like to say that this is the first stage of a proceeding that takes place, first, in infringement, then in a hearing of the parties in an open session. In the open hearing, I didn't say the lawyers won the case. It's a coup d'état interpretation of my words. I said that during the process of proving the existence of a cartel or not, the parties were called upon by proving that the exchange of information between interested parties was in terms of prices and not price policy and market shares as required by the law. The Commission therefore finds that there is no prohibited agreement or agreement having an anti-competitive effect. The requirement of the law is to have an anti-competitive effect. In this case, there is no such anti-competitive effect. What's more, when we're talking about a cartel, we need to read the law to see what a cartel is. This is a prohibited agreement, a concerted practice which, in the present case, I say again, the European Commission and the European Court of Justice in their practice have accepted that there is no prohibited agreement or no concerted practice when it comes to the future, there is only when it comes to future prices, market shares and other components required by the Law on Protection of Competition. So misinterpret my words. With regard to the Public Procurement Act, I would like to say that, in all European Member States, Member States of the European Union, as a first instance, are considered the acts which are appealed under the Public Procurement Act, the acts of contracting entities. I will list the countries of France, Romania and Germany. It feels like there's a lot of orders. This is because you know that the tariff has changed and this has enabled all the parties to have a legal basis for it, or not, to appeal for whatever a public contract is thinking. First of all, that gives it an opportunity to the law. Secondly, sometimes speculate on this in law is called the abuse of law. We in Bulgaria are not an exception to consider the acts of the contracting authority in the Commission for Protection of Competition, that is, an independent state body. Otherwise, there would be a diverse practice and the Commission has a uniform practice. I would like to emphasise that the Commission has done as much work within 10 months as the previous committee has not done in 5 years. I don't want to say anything bad about my colleague, but, understand, 1,500 files under the Public Procurement Act, and I mean that there is no decision by the Commission for Protection of Competition that is under 60 pages. This is extremely hard work. The fact that the Commission acts are legal and comply with European and Bulgarian practice is that only 5.5% are repealed by the Supreme Administrative Court. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Nenkova. To speak, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u144	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable representatives of the Commission, honourable Mr. Gechev and Mr. Kanev! We are here, we will always be here professionals and pragmatists in different areas. If I look bruised and slightly swollen, this is not from the paint I eat from the cartel, which is not in Bulgaria, or from its subjugated institutions. That's because while I was listening to the honourable Mr. Gechev, I was slapping myself, pinching myself and trying to understand a dream or not. What I should have said, 100% said before me Mr. Gechev and I will have to get used to it, because if at the moment, God forbid, the government changes, and the government becomes from BSP, the same thing Mr. Gechev will say in this part of the room. And the opposite opinion that we are now hearing from this part of the room, we will hear it from the other side. But the facts are what they are, and it doesn't matter whether we are opposition or those who want to protect the interests of the Bulgarian people, the Bulgarian business and the Bulgarian state. In order not to repeat 100% the words of Mr. Gechev, which I absolutely support, I will give you examples only from the last days. Nobody tolerates a losing enterprise. No shareholder tolerates a manager who holds his company to a loss for many years, and all the other things that have been said I will not repeat them. Yesterday, the price of diesel in Burgas, where it is produced in the refinery of Lukoil, is 2 pennies and something lower than the price carried 500 km to the same company in Blagoevgrad at their base in Blagoevgrad, with 4-5 pennies transport costs and 2 pennies lower price. Is this being investigated? How do you get these spells? Once the wholesale price in the same region in Blagoevgrad, the same company is lower, in the same region retail prices are higher. And no one comes out to explain why at the moment in the same company prices in one region are 40 cents different from another region. Not 4 pennies, very correctly heard the prices today in one region in a chain of gas stations have 40 cents difference compared to the same chain in another region. And this has nothing to do with my presence in these regions or with anyone else's presence, because both in different regions either there are or there are no gas stations of ours. So obviously that's not the reason, that can't be the excuse. Someone needs to come out and explain to the Bulgarian people in the areas where it is 40 cm. More expensive, why are they robbing him? And do they also rob the Ministry of Interior, hospitals, polyclinics, schools? Are there any money left for our teachers, doctors, pensioners because of... Yesterday at BNT, I said a word, now I don't know, but that's marauding. What do we call this difference of 40 cents a liter other than marauding? The other day I had to rush to Plovdiv and because our gas station is on the other side of Sofia, I loaded into the cartel. At 16 liters, because I've only got enough to get there, as people say, at 16 liters I've paid an extra £8.50. We need to ask some questions, and I'm going to concentrate on two. One is: do we have any information about what happened to this same cartel and those same state authorities that investigated similar behaviours of the same companies in Romania and what are the conclusions there? I'm guessing the same lawyers were used. And the second question, not to be surprised why this is happening: are there any appointments to the Commission that are direct former employees, or related persons with cartel companies? These are the two questions I'd be interested in learning the answer to. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u145	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. - What's the line? A statement? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u146	Thank you, Madam President. And I have a question for the Chairman of the KPC, who is also related to the fuel cartels and, in particular, to the cartel of the smuggled imports of fuels. I'll give you an example. In the previous parliament, there was a committee that dealt with this particular issue. There were several that the warehouses were expensive. It turns out that from 1 to 3 pennies are expensive, but they haven't achieved a price of 3 pennies, they're still a penny and a half, that is, at BGN 2,20, a penny and a half is obviously the price. Then we invited people from all offices and industries and came here the boss of one of the biggest companies lately, which does not belong to the oil and gas association. This is a man who ten years ago had a million and a half turnover, now has a billion and a half. As they say: Tsvetan Vassilev is a kindergarten compared to him. Every year it's a hundred percent growth, a hundred percent growth, but the guy gets this thing. A legitimate merchant, legitimate, with warehouses. One of the biggest, most modern in Sofia and Ruse. This guy supports a firm, declares income, pays good wages. Stored fuel in the base in Ruse, stored in Sofia. He has a license to sell fuel to NATO, the Ministry of Defense, the Ministry of Interior. This guy brings in the fuel himself, stores it and sells it. It sells 360 gas stations, which are from three world chains, one is OMV, the other is Echo. Besides these 360 gas stations, this man, his fuel he bought, imported, stored, sold it to 360 and to his 24 gas stations. Or roughly at that point he was selling fuel that he imported and stored at 384 gas stations. Apart from these gas stations, he was selling some 12 to a Varna firm. Turns out his fuel at his gas stations and the other 360 is more expensive than his fuel at these 12 gas stations. To the question: How is it that you at your own gas stations sell your own fuel more expensive than your own someone else?.................................................................................. I hope the KPC will give this answer, because apparently the fuel, when it entered and exited the warehouses, is at a common price. And for the record, the people in this room who may have gone wrong, imagine that we have five merchants on the same street with neighborhood shops. All five people buy from Metro. Can you buy from Metro and then at the neighborhood store sell it cheaper than you bought it at Metro? Because that is exactly what happened to the fuels that this Varna firm sells to its gas stations at lower prices than the person who sold them the fuel. Something's going on in the chain. I don't know what it is, I'm waiting for the KPC to respond because she might be able to do this analysis. I'm saying this because when we do an analysis, we have to be objective. If you enter a map, it is called Fuelo.net, and you see how fuel prices are colored in Bulgaria, anyone who is not color-blind and recognizes colors will understand that there are huge imports of fuels from Ruse, which at cheap prices flood most of the country. Where these fuels have failed to be realised, the prices are different. You tell me where the difference goes and whether this resource of a billion is not good enough to get into the budget? And those who are guilty in the chain, let them bear their full responsibility. My question is to the CDC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Mareshki, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u148	Madam President, honourable Members! It's nice that we have to protect the money we get from the cartel, but let's be precise. Never, because it was about a Varna gas station, never this Varna gas station, will I tell you the respectable ones, Mr. Revisoro Dimitrov, has sold at lower prices than the other suppliers in the country. And the fact that the gas stations of the wholesaler in question make perhaps 30 times lower turnover than those Varna that you talk about is normal for others to be more profitable and more profitable. Write that down, but you should have studied it back in the day, not when you were wasting your time both yours and the state in the institutions where you were. Because next time we can invite people who have been your colleagues in these institutions to tell you about the cases that you created them. In fact, when you were there, why didn't you find this billion when Mareshki wasn't in the fuel trade? Because that's what you can do, and maybe that's what you want. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u149	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Second line? Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u150	Thank you, Madam President. I'm gonna have to take this. When I was protecting the country, others were rich. Everyone's made their choice. I do not believe that some are more unworthy, others more worthy. If it were you then, we'd see how you handle it. With regard to companies and cartels, I have photos of customs officers because I appointed them 15 years ago, but they still treat me with respect to this day. They came to the Commission at the previous parliament and gave me pictures of tanks from a Varna company that fill in a tax warehouse, according to documents that they go to another tax warehouse without unloading the fuel going somewhere at the gas stations. It's not an abuse of the company, it's an abuse of the second tax warehouse that manipulates the equipment. I've put him in the Special Prosecutor's Office in a timely manner, I've never bothered the media with this matter. So what I can do, I did then. However, when someone comes out on this stand and says: "The ones are good, the others are bad, let them say objectively, if someone has 24 gas stations or 12, and the other one has 30, then the other one is a monopoly. But if I only have one pharmacy and the other one has 200 or 300, what is it to me? Don't let the archin be any different. If you're entitled to four, but you've registered in one form or another, not illegal, two hundred and fifty-fifty pharmacies, and there's only one, isn't it considered unfair to you? In this town there are two pharmacies, I have one, and another there are 250 in the country. Then we don't see that problem. The Commission for Protection of Competition is the body, the only legitimate one who could rule. We can all have opinions, we can have opinions, but the KPC is the authority that, by the way, very correctly decided that when 90 to 10 percent was production... relative to foreign, there was no cartel, at 80 to 20.. there was no problem, now it is 60 to 40 according to official data, but the real situation is different. Our production is 43%, the other is imports. Thank you. [[(The Parliamentary Group of the.. Volya.................................................................................................... People's representative Veselin Mareshki leaves the blister on the stands and replicates the speaker:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u151	Mr. Mareshki, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u152	The disrespectful, incorrect attitude is something anyone can demonstrate. I call on my colleagues not to be offended. The man can do that.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u153	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. [[Applause on the right.]] Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u154	Aren't you going to do something about what happened?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u155	Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u156	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday in the European Parliament passed the hearing of the candidate for EU commissioner by Bulgaria Mrs. Maria Gabriel. According to an overall assessment of both European media and European lawmakers and of the main political parties in the European Union, its presentation has passed not only successfully but also brilliantly, as to it... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, it's a declaration! It's a declaration!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u157	Is it a declaration, Mr. Bikov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u158	Yeah, it's a declaration, otherwise, I don't believe the CDC is relevant...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u159	Declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u160	I'm sorry, that's why I asked for the floor. Mrs Gabriel's hearing was recognised as being successful by all European factors and by the public who is interested in this topic. At the same time, Mrs. Gabriel was also supported in her nomination by Vice President Mrs. Yotova, a longtime MEP from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, by the Party of European Socialists. In his speech, Mr. Alexander Simov, a member of the BSP, called Mrs. Gabrielle Kukuhkatka. That's the day after the hearing. I don't want to quote verbatim. The problem is political and it is a problem of BSP, but it is also a problem of Bulgaria because of the BSP the first word on its name is Bulgarian. I call on Mrs. Yotova to take part in Mrs. Gabriel's election so that we can hear what the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is. This is the position of MEPs, who yesterday did not ask a single question to Mrs Gabrielle and gave no criticism to her. This is the position of the Vice President, broadcast by BSP Mrs. Yotova, who described Mrs. Gabriel as a workaholic and an extremely suitable candidate for Bulgaria or is the position of Mrs. Simov, who defines Mrs. Gabriel as a Kuhatkatka? This is a chronic problem of the BSP "BSP behaves in one way in Europe, and this is traditional. In Europe they behave in a European way, in Bulgaria they behave in a completely different way. We witnessed similar treatment during the election campaign, when in Bulgaria there was talk of stopping sanctions against Russia and similar promises, and in Europe sanctions were supported by the caretaker government appointed by the President and broadcast by the BSP. There was talk here against Seta, where Seta stood up for herself. So I ask once again: what is the position of BSP and when will BSP have a unified position, both in Bulgaria and in Europe? It is very easy to stretch the fan, to denigrate on top of it a person who has just been elected European Commissioner, a person who enjoys a good reputation in the European Parliament and here in Bulgaria, to use the language of hate. Come on, I'll talk like you, because it's a hate language: a koucha leka, a shrubahan capitalism. Shurobajanism is not a product of capitalism, but of feudalism first. And he thrived mostly in socialism, by the way. There are whole families in your party, which have already been engaged in politics for centuries. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Once again, I will call: have a united position. We expect Mrs. Ninova to choose who she's solidarity with. I purposely mentioned Mr. Simov so he could have a personal explanation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u161	He is entitled to a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group if you wish, Mr. Simov. After a statement, you have no right to a personal explanation. Here you are, on behalf of a parliamentary group, if you have anything to say. [[Noise and lines.]] We'll continue the debate. Prepare a statement for tomorrow if you want. [[Noise and lines, calls.]] Okay, the way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u162	Madam President, I take the floor in the manner of conduct to advise you when a Member is speaking in this Chamber, at least to follow what I have said, as the words of the Kujatkatkatkatka I have not used. Mr. Bikov, however, may I be allowed to have my own opinion regarding Mrs. Gabrielle and her presentation. [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u163	Of course you're right, but you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u164	I hope there's still democracy in this room!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u165	But, Mr. Simov, to me, if you have any comment.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u166	I hope there is democracy in this room, Mrs. Karayancheva!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u167	Of course there is democracy, but in the way of holding me!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u168	And I have the right to express my opinion, regardless of what the parliamentary group of GERB is thinking, but because there were still a few false facts, we have not supported the SETA and we will never support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u169	Please, mate! I'll take your word for it!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u170	Okay. Please control the MPs of GERB, their emotions are getting worse these days.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u171	Thank you, Mr. Simov. I'll do my best. Here you are, Mrs. Dukova, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u172	Madam President, honourable Members! There was a debate of extraordinary substance and substance, Madam President. Maybe the mistake is that a statement should have been read. We thought it was a statement, and it caused these violent reactions. Madam President, when we talk about unity in certain areas, do not really allow this language of hatred. Otherwise, I've been very fond of Mr. Simov lately because he's been abstinence for the last few days...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u173	Mrs. Dukova, to me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u174	No, no! That's the way to lead! Dictating the party, how can I say, aggression, from this tribune do not afford either self-serving recitations or personal approaches or insults. An intelligent man couldn't do that... And now in me, Madam President, deep doubts are awakening, aceba, if I may use this Bulgarian word, Madam President, how intelligent are you, Mr Simov?
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u175	Please, Mrs. Dukova! I'll take your word for it. Please! [[Loud noise, lines and calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u176	My question is rhetorical because, Madam President, I know the answer. [[The National Representative Snezana Dukova speaks on off microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u177	Please! I'll take your word for it! Thank you, dear Mrs. Dukova. We'll continue the debate. [[Noise, lines, calls.]] Let's continue the debate! There was a procedure in the manner of conduct, colleagues. Look at your rules. Let's continue the debate. There was a call to calm the passions. Please continue, you will be able to make a statement tomorrow. You'll be able to make a statement tomorrow, Mr. Simov. I'm sure you'll do well. The way you're holding it, no. Mr. Ivanov, I'm not giving the floor anymore. We are continuing the debate on the subject. Mr. Ermenkov, come in, on the subject of the KPC.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u178	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I ask where is the President of the Commission for Protection of Competition because I do not see her in this House? Or maybe she really thinks she's self-sufficient...
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u179	Please invite Mrs. Nenkova to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u180	As we understand it, the Commission has had ten months, and five years before that, there hasn't been one. She said it in person here, a little paraphrased. Even if I had any doubts about how to vote on this report, there is no way that I can vote in any other way than against that report. Not for anything else, but because when a committee chairman makes a statement that there is a cartel, and then he says that there is no cartel, in either case he should at least apologize for making a mistake. At least this should do, not hide behind lawyers, terminology, European law or anything else. When a committee chairman is given a hand to resolve the issues that are really huge and can make it difficult in Bulgaria to absorb European funds under public procurement when it is paid attention that the Commission currently has little capacity and cannot serve this obligation by becoming an obstacle to the absorption of these funds, it is nice for the President of the Commission to come and say exactly what could be done.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u181	The chairman's already here.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u182	Yeah, I saw her. What exactly prevents the work of the Commission from being able to do so as legislators? That's exactly what Mr. Kanev offered her. He did not say: " Why are you so harmful? Why are you stopping? " he asked: "Where is your pain so that we as legislators can fix it? " She doesn't listen to others. It wants to be the face of the Commission, the content of the Commission and the Commission itself as a whole. The fact that the other members of this Commission, which is a collective body, are missing, speaks in support of what I am telling you. Therefore, I ask you very much, to the Commission for Protection of Competition, be at the height of the situation for which we have chosen you. Be professional! Put aside the personal stuff! Do not be offended as young children, but do what is necessary in your activities to prove your utility, and secondly, be the initiator of those changes that will help your activity and from here to Bulgaria. Otherwise, we will sit here and listen to you as you are the only ones working so far, and before you no one has worked, how you are the sinless and how European legislation exists in Romania and around the world. Thank you, we know that without such a Commission and without paying such salaries! Once again, I call you to a little humility and to a little more professionalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, we see from you and your colleagues quite a lot of aggression towards this Commission. I don't understand why. Are any orders stopped that shouldn't be? I didn't understand. The focus here is on the cartel and fuel. Ms. Nenkova has given a lot of recommendations regarding legislative initiatives. We can, together, bring them in on faster production so that the Public Procurement Act can be implemented, which is actually the most difficult for the Commission to do with its volume. This can be done, but I think it is rather administrative, i.e. increasing capacity in terms of people, so that things can be handled faster. You know that we changed the Law on Protection of Competition to make production faster. I think that's kind of what it's done. The report shows how much work has been done in particular time. I think this aggression is unnecessary. We must help this Commission to be a sufficiently independent body and law-abiding from the point of view of competition, because any lack of decision or wrong decision will reflect on consumers and, in particular, on us and on the authority of the state. We need to think about these things, but I'm still saying there are suggestions. They are in the archives of the National Assembly. Anyone can take advantage of them. Ms. Nenkova made them herself. I think this aggression is unnecessary. The better option is to look for constructiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u185	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Any other lines? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u186	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nikolov, if I had any concerns and personal relations with the Commission, I would declare a conflict of interest. I don't have any. I don't run errands. I'm not in charge of running these errands either. You do these things. We as opposition don't have access to this thing. We have no desire to do this, so leave the rest. [[Arrival in GERB.]] And now two sentences to the point. Firstly, today we are discussing the Commission report, not the cartel considerations, but we have made it a central issue. That was one of my requests. If, at the beginning, the President had said, "We made a mistake, we rushed, we probably wouldn't have come to this dialogue. Secondly, there is no aggression. That there is a failure to accept the way in which certain things are spoken by the President of the Commission, is so. I am not pleased with the way it was spoken, and I expressed my discontent. On the occasion of your constructive proposal, I believe that this is what I have completed. We expected this Commission to tell us how to help her so that we could be useful to her. You can only help someone who wants to be helped, but you can't do anyone any good by force.
ParlaMint-BG_2017-06-21.u187	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I'll read the draft decision again: Project! DECISION under the 2016 Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition, in relation to art. 14 of the Law on Protection of Competition The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 90, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Adopts the Annual Report on the Activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition 2016 Please vote. They voted 142 MPs: 84, against 50, abstention 8. The annual report on the activities of the Commission for Protection of Competition for 2016 has been adopted. Colleagues, we're done with the agenda today. Tomorrow's regular session. First paragraph of the Law amending and supplementing the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today, I am closing today's plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
